

1 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: India and Pakistan Fail to Resolve Glacier Dispute at Talks

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- The slow, uncertain efforts to normalize relations between India and Pakistan apparently made little progress on Tuesday, after defense secretaries from both countries failed to deliver a breakthrough on demilitarizing a Himalayan glacier considered the world's highest battlefield.
The two-day meetings in New Delhi were part of wider-ranging discussions under way between India and Pakistan over issues including trade, water rights, terrorism and the fate of the disputed region of Kashmir. Analysts had expressed guarded optimism that some progress was possible on the glacier dispute, yet Tuesday's talks ended with only a pledge for further talks in Islamabad, Pakistan's capital, at some point. 
''Both sides welcomed the ongoing dialogue process,'' declared a statement issued jointly by the delegations. ''The discussions were held in a frank and cordial atmosphere, contributing to an enhanced understanding of each other's position.''
The broader discussions between India and Pakistan represent an important, if tortuous, piece in the larger strategic puzzle of trying to bring stability to one of the world's most dangerous regions. The nuclear-armed neighbors Pakistan and India have fought three wars since becoming independent countries in 1947, and their rivalry now complicates American military and counterterrorism efforts in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
In 2008, India abandoned diplomatic efforts with Pakistan after heavily armed militants, trained in Pakistan, attacked in Mumbai, killing at least 163 people. Talks were eventually restarted, but the process has been bumpy.
The decision to hold talks this week represented a minor achievement, after a month in which tensions between India and Pakistan could have boiled over. First came the discovery and killing of Osama bin Laden in a Pakistani town that is home to a major military academy. Then came testimony in a terrorism trial in Chicago that adds to evidence linking Pakistan's intelligence agency to the Mumbai attack.
Indian officials see the developments as validation of their longstanding position that the Pakistani state knowingly nurtures terrorism. Some Indian officials issued sharp criticisms of Pakistan, among them Indian generals boasting that Indian commandos could replicate a raid in Pakistan similar to the one against Bin Laden -- comments that elicited an angry rebuke from Pakistani officials.
But the Indian prime minister, Manmohan Singh, has largely resisted demonizing Pakistan, and his foreign policy advisers have quietly made clear that the dialogue between the countries will not be interrupted. Days before Bin Laden's death, the two sides had made progress during a meeting where their commerce secretaries promised to explore a range of trade and business ties.
''What we are trying to do is send a message to Pakistan that we are willing to do business with you and we don't want to take advantage of your current predicament in any way,'' said Naresh Chandra, chairman of India's National Security Advisory Board, which is appointed by the prime minister.
Few analysts expect any dramatic, transformative breakthroughs. But Mr. Singh has persistently pushed for dialogue on multiple issues, often despite criticism at home, on the premise that India's economic progress is imperiled without a stable neighborhood.
Indeed, beyond his overtures to Pakistan, Mr. Singh in May also recalibrated India's position on Afghanistan, where the United States has pledged to begin withdrawing troops next month. In the past, India has criticized reconciliation efforts with the Taliban, fearing that Taliban members in the Afghan government could deepen Pakistani influence.
But in a visit to Kabul, the Afghan capital, on May 12 and 13, Mr. Singh signaled that India had softened its stance and sought to position his country as a constructive player toward any Afghan settlement. ''Afghanistan has embarked upon a process of national reconciliation,'' Mr. Singh said during his visit, in which he also awarded $500 million in aid. ''We wish you well in this enterprise.''
This week's talks were focused on a longstanding dispute over the Siachen Glacier in the Himalayan mountains. In 1984, Pakistan sent soldiers to try to dislodge the Indian Army from its occupation of the heights over the disputed site. Years of skirmishes followed at altitudes of more than 18,000 feet. The glacier had dubious strategic value, and more soldiers died as a result of the hostile environment than in battle.
A 2003 cease-fire ended the hostilities, but left unresolved the fate of each side's forces, which remain in their high-altitude positions. Negotiators have quibbled over the terms of how the troops will withdraw to lower ground and what sort of monitoring will ensure that neither side seeks to return.
Today, soldiers remain posted high in the mountains, though India has greatly improved living conditions over the years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh at a memorial service in New Delhi on May 21. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANISH SWARUP/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); WATER RIGHTS (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (75%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) HIMALAYAS (91%); KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



2 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Reconstruction Lifts Economy After Disasters

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The deadly tornadoes and widespread flooding that have left a trail of death and destruction throughout the South and the Midwest have also disrupted dozens of local economies just as the unsteady recovery seemed to be finding a foothold.
But a new phase is slowly beginning in some hard-hit areas: reconstruction, which past disasters show is typically accompanied by a burst of new, and different, economic activity. There is no silver lining to a funnel cloud, as anyone who survived the tornadoes can attest, but reconstruction can help rebuild local economies as well as neighborhoods.
More than a tenth of the businesses in Tuscaloosa, Ala., were badly damaged or destroyed in April when a tornado swept across a 5.9-mile stretch of the city, and nearly 6,000 Alabamians have filed storm-related claims for unemployment benefits. 
An even deadlier tornado laid waste to roughly a quarter of the businesses in Joplin, Mo., on May 22, wiping out some of the big-box stores the city relies on heavily for sales tax receipts. The flooding Mississippi River closed all nine riverboat casinos in Tunica, Miss., this spring, leaving 4,600 hotel rooms empty for weeks and depriving the county of so much tax revenue that it had to reduce its workers' hours.
But there are already stirrings of economic activity. Home Depot, whose store in Joplin was destroyed, began selling lumber and other supplies from a parking lot there on Tuesday as it prepared to open a 30,000-square-foot temporary store.
Tamko Building Products was doubly hit. Its plant in Tuscaloosa had to halt production for weeks after the April 27 tornado destroyed a warehouse, blew out windows and knocked out power. Then in May disaster struck closer to home: Tamko's headquarters are in Joplin, where the company was founded in 1944. The tornado that tore through Joplin left Tamko's facilities undamaged, but destroyed the homes of roughly 20 of its employees.
But as much as it was buffeted by the storms, Tamko, which donated $1 million to the Greater Ozarks Chapter of the American Red Cross, is well-positioned to prosper once reconstruction fully kicks in. Its main product -- roofing shingles -- is always in demand after a tornado.
No one would suggest that disasters are a desirable form of economic stimulus. But economists who have studied the impact of floods, tornadoes and hurricanes have found that after the initial anguish and huge economic disruptions, periods of increased economic activity frequently follow as insurance money and disaster relief flow in to jump-start rebuilding.
But reconstruction also attracts vultures who prey on the desperate, through price-gouging or fraud. The Kentucky attorney general, Jack Conway, accused the Marathon Petroleum Company of price-gouging in April when it raised gasoline prices steeply after the flooding Ohio River led to a state of emergency. The company denied the accusation, and a judge denied Mr. Conway's request to force the Marathon to lower its prices.
Alabama's attorney general, Luther J. Strange, recorded a public-service announcement warning people not to be conned into paying steep ''up-front'' fees for construction work or to be lured by ''today-only'' prices.
''Let us be vigilant against unethical, unprofessional contractors who seek to take advantage of our citizens in their time of need,'' Mr. Strange says in the announcement.
Even as the natural disasters eliminated thousands of jobs, the needs of recovery have created others. Companies like Unified Recovery Group, which is clearing storm wreckage in Alabama and Tennessee, are hiring workers and subcontractors to cart off debris. Construction companies are hiring, too. In Tuscaloosa, James E. Latham, chief executive officer of WAR Construction, said his firm had rehired workers who had been laid off during the downturn and had added new employees to prepare for the work ahead, like rebuilding an elementary school.
As insurance claims are paid, a further economic stimulus lies in the shopping that some people will do to replace lost goods.
When researchers studied the economic impact of a deadly tornado that hit Oklahoma City in 1999, they found that the labor market improved after the storm, and not just in the construction sector.
''The fact of the matter is, it created this catalyst for a renewal,'' said one of the researchers, Jamie Brown Kruse, director of the Center for Natural Hazards Research at East Carolina University.
Of course, that Oklahoma tornado struck in a very different time, Dr. Kruse noted. The American economy was strong, and people felt confident enough to rebuild and replace what was lost, often with new structures that were better than the old.
Communities, for the most part, are ''amazingly resilient,'' said Kevin M. Simmons, an economics professor at Austin College and author of ''The Economic and Societal Impact of Tornadoes.''
But struggling communities have sometimes been undone by tornadoes. Mr. Simmons pointed to Picher, Okla., a Superfund site that never recovered from a tornado in 2008. ''The tornado was basically the last nail in their coffin,'' he said.
The flurry of economic activity in a recovery often realigns the jobs market.
After Hurricane Katrina hit the Mississippi Gulf Coast in August 2005, employment dropped steeply, said Marianne T. Hill, a senior economist at the Mississippi Institutions of Higher Learning. By May 2008, however, the area had 99 percent of the total jobs it had before the storm, Ms. Hill said, but the employment makeup had changed. There were more construction jobs and government jobs, and fewer jobs in manufacturing, retail, transportation and, as tourism suffered, leisure and hospitality.
''You get a huge spurt of activity,'' Ms. Hill said in an interview, ''but it's very different from what happened before.''
Kevin L. Kliesen, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, studied the economics of natural disasters after the Mississippi River flooding of 1993. He began a paper on the subject with a quote from the 19th-century English economist John Stuart Mill, who wondered at ''the great rapidity with which countries recover from a state of devastation.''
That may seem a long way off in some places.
Terry Waters, executive director of the West Alabama Chamber of Commerce, said the Tuscaloosa tornado killed 41 people and destroyed or significantly damaged about 650 businesses that employ 7,200 workers. But Mr. Waters said he was proud of the city's resiliency.
''Every day when I drive out,'' he said, ''I see more and more debris that's been removed -- front-end loaders on private property scooping up debris and hauling it off.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Employees of the Davis H. Elliot Company, based in Virginia, came to Alabama after an April tornado to help restore power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Only four days after the tornado hit Joplin, Mo., on May 22, Phillip Law had begun working to rebuild a beauty salon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Workers built a 16-foot levee on May 20 in Natchez, Miss., to protect a lumber company from the flooding Mississippi River. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORNADOES (91%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); PRICE INCREASES (83%); WEATHER (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); POWER FAILURES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); HOME CENTERS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); SALES TAX (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); CASINOS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (80%); MARATHON PETROLEUM CORP (60%)

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (80%); MPC (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (92%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



3 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reduces Estimates Of Homeless In Haiti Quake

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- As a new Haitian government seeks to jump-start aid to rebuild the country after the January 2010 earthquake, a draft of a new United States government report suggests that the scope of the disaster was not as severe as previously estimated. 
The report, dated May 13 but not yet released publicly, comes as the new Haitian government seeks to fully collect the $4.6 billion pledged a year ago by international donors and as the hurricane season begins, raising the specter of additional trouble in the months ahead for the tens of thousands of people living in temporary camps.
The United States report said as many as 895,000 people moved into camps after the earthquake, not the 1.5 million estimated by the International Organization for Migration, an intergovernmental organization. At most, an estimated 375,000 people remain displaced, with a maximum of 66,620 living in camps, the report said, contrary to the migration organization's tally of more than 600,000 people living in camps, the vast majority of them made homeless by the quake.
The amount of rubble that must be cleared has also been overstated, the report said, putting it at 3.7 million cubic meters, not the 20 million to 25 million originally estimated by the Army Corps of Engineers or the 10 million the United Nations reported this year.
But the United States Agency for International Development, or U.S.A.I.D., which hired a Washington research group to prepare the report, backed away on Tuesday from the report's most incendiary figure, an estimated quake death toll of 46,000 to 85,000 people. The Haitian government announced in January that 316,000 had been killed; in the initial weeks after the quake, it said about 230,000 had died.
Carleene Dei, a U.S.A.I.D. director, said in a statement that ''any comment on the death toll of the tragic earthquake of January 2010 that affected so many, is beyond the scope of the commission and purely reflects the views of the author.''
An agency spokesman declined additional comment, saying the report was still being reviewed. The lead author, Timothy T. Schwartz, is a cultural anthropologist who in the past has written critically of some aid relief in Haiti.
Mr. Schwartz declined to comment, but he defended his work on a blog, saying the higher death toll estimates were not supported by research or other evidence. His figure was derived from statistical sampling and an analysis of one part of Port-au-Prince, the capital.
In the early days after the quake, people swarmed into encampments with little accounting of how many people were there. Corpses were collected and buried with little documentation.
The Haitian government has never explained how it arrived at its death toll figures. The International Organization for Migration eventually began a census of the camp populations. It stood by its figures, which it said come from extensive field surveys.
The United States report, leaked to news organizations this past week, left some in the relief community wondering if it foretold a reduction in aid, which they said would be a premature retreat. International donors have given about 37 percent of the $4.6 billion pledged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); WRITERS (66%); ENGINEERING (65%); STATISTICAL METHOD (65%); ARMIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR MIGRATION (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (94%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



4 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Transit Hub in Maryland Gets a Second Chance

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

 BODY:
NEW CARROLLTON, Md. -- Many people in the mid-Atlantic region probably know this small suburban town as a train stop on the way to or from Union Station in Washington. But with Amtrak and Maryland commuter train stops, a Washington Metrorail station, buses and major highways nearby, New Carrollton seems to have everything a far-sighted developer could want.
On either side of the tracks are surface parking lots, undeveloped land and underdeveloped office parks, hundreds of acres that have been ripe for new building. 
And yet this prime piece of real estate has lain fallow, full of unrealized possibilities, for nearly 25 years. Hotels, residences and retail that were envisioned when the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, or Wmata, chose a developer in 1988 -- a decade after the Metrorail station opened -- never materialized.
Even after the Internal Revenue Service built a massive three-building complex for 5,000 employees in the 1990s, the area remained a maze of parking lots and access roads, with two garages, a bus storage yard and a 200-acre office park, all close to the Capital Beltway and U.S. Route 50. There is still almost no place to eat or shop in the vicinity.
Now, however, with transit-oriented development increasingly smiled upon by planners and politicians, the transit authority has chosen new developers with the expectation that the site's potential will at last be realized. At the same time, the region's aging mass transit system needs a cash infusion to help with maintenance and equipment problems, and a successful project could help generate revenue to address that.
In a five-way competition, two companies were picked to lead the effort: Forest City Washington, an offshoot of Forest City Enterprises, a publicly traded company based in Cleveland that has nearly $12 billion in assets nationally; and Urban Atlantic, a Bethesda, Md., developer. Forest City is developing a transit-oriented project, Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn, and Urban Atlantic has done $1 billion worth of similar projects, largely in the Washington and Baltimore areas.
In breaking with past practice, the agency did not seek a specific proposal but sought first to assemble a team, with developers working closely with county, state and federal officials to design a fresh plan for the what will initially be a 39-acre site, of which the agency owns 23 acres and the State of Maryland 16.
The hope is that other private parcels will then be developed to create a new urban center tied to mass transit.
''It should be a great place because so many people will come in and pass through, and people should be able to live, work and shop there,'' said Deborah Ratner Salzberg, the president of Forest City Washington. To help with the planning, the transit agency and the state are chipping in a total of $1 million for consultants, engineers and economic experts. The state has also expressed interest in leasing space at New Carrollton.
Metro stations elsewhere in the region have been magnets for development, but Prince George's County, long a blue-collar enclave and now majority black and more affluent, has lagged. The success of National Harbor, a still-expanding $4 billion mixed-use project on the Potomac, however, has increased the county's marketability.
''This is not a black-white issue,'' said Steven E. Goldin, a former New Jersey developer hired by the transit agency to run its real estate division. ''It's a green issue, it's about money, and developers are going to move in that direction. And it's the greenest kind of development there is, an opportunity to use mass transit, with less wear and tear on roads and bridges. The location is where the big savings are in the carbon footprint.''
All parties acknowledge that the market, even in a region that has proved largely recession-proof, may not be ready for the projected 2.6 million square feet of offices, shops, hotels and up to 3,000 residential units. ''I believe as the project unfolds the market will be ready for it,'' Ms. Ratner Salzberg said.
The project has been hampered by a widespread reputation for ''pay to play'' corruption in Prince George's County, in which it is located.
The perception was bolstered last year when the departing county executive, Jack B. Johnson, was arrested on charges of taking bribes from developers. On May 18, he pleaded guilty to extortion and evidence tampering in the case. Rushern L. Baker III, the new county executive, said the New Carrollton project was a step forward for Prince George's.
''I think it just starts the type of development we want to have in the county and what we're going to see more of,'' Mr. Baker said. ''Our economic development team is working hand in hand with Wmata and developers to make sure the process, the permitting is streamlined.''
The president of Urban Atlantic, Victoria Davis, said: ''I think Prince George's County is headed in the right direction. I'm glad they cleaned up their mess.'' But, she added, the arrest and the general climate of corruption it seemed to symbolize, coming during the request-for-proposal process, was ''pretty off-putting for a lot of folks.''
Referring to the county's image, Mr. Goldin of the transit agency said: ''I met with the executive and his staff. I said, 'This is what I hear out there; you need to deal with this.' Rushern Baker has brought sunshine to the development process. The development community has noticed.''
Mr. Goldin, a former chief executive officer of InterCap Holdings, a large transit-oriented developer based in Princeton, N.J., said he saw himself as a bridge between ''Metro operations folks and the developer. It is by definition adversarial,'' because the two disciplines bring different perspectives to the table. But he remains confident. ''I'm from New Jersey; we're tough,'' he said. ''I'm doing the same as there. I'm just on the other side of the table. I understand the needs and challenges of both the public and private side.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven Goldin of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority in New Carrollton, Md., a regional transit hub. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL TEMCHINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); TRAINS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (58%); FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: FCEB (NYSE) (53%); FCEA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (53%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (53%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (53%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



5 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2849 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Case Stands Out Because It Stands Alone

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and GRETCHEN MORGENSON; Tom Torok contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At the height of the housing boom, the 26th floor of Goldman Sachs's former headquarters on Broad Street in Lower Manhattan was the nerve center of Goldman's fast-growing mortgage trading business.
Hundreds of employees worked closely in teams, devising mortgage-based securities -- billions of dollars' worth -- that were examined by lawyers, approved by management, then sold to investors like hedge funds, commercial banks and insurance companies.
At one trading desk sat Fabrice Tourre, a midlevel 28-year-old Frenchman who was little known not just outside Goldman but even inside the firm. That changed three years later, in 2010, when he achieved the dubious distinction of becoming the only individual at Goldman and across Wall Street sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission for helping to sell a mortgage-securities investment, in one of the hundreds of mortgage deals created during the bubble years.
How Mr. Tourre alone came to be the face of mortgage-securities fraud has raised questions among former prosecutors and Congressional officials about how aggressive and thorough the government's investigations have been into Wall Street's role in the mortgage crisis. 
Across the industry, ''it's impossible that only one person was involved with fraudulent activities in connection to the sales of these mortgage securities,'' said G. Oliver Koppell, a New York attorney general in the 1990s and now a New York City councilman.
In the fall of 2009, when Mr. Tourre learned that he had become a target of investigators for helping to sell a mortgage security called Abacus, he protested that he had not acted alone.
That fall, his lawyers drafted private responses to the S.E.C., maintaining that Mr. Tourre was part of a ''collaborative effort'' at Goldman, according to documents obtained by The New York Times. The lawyer added that the commission's view of his role ''would have Mr. Tourre engaged in a grand deception of practically everyone'' involved in the mortgage deal.
Indeed, numerous other colleagues also worked on that mortgage security. And that deal was just one of nearly two dozen similar deals totaling $10.9 billion that Goldman devised from 2004 to 2007 -- which in turn were similar to more than $100 billion of such securities deals created by other Wall Street firms during that period.
While Goldman paid $550 million last year to settle accusations that it had misled investors who bought the Abacus mortgage security, no other individuals at the bank have been named. Now, however, as criticism has grown about the lack of cases brought by regulators, the scope of the inquiries appears to be widening. The United States attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., has said publicly that his lawyers were reviewing possible charges against other Goldman officials in the wake of a Senate investigation that produced reams of documentsdetailing other questionable decisions that were made in the firm's mortgage unit.
The Senate inquiry was one of several in the past three years. These investigations by Congressional leaders and bankruptcy trustees -- into the likes of Washington Mutual, Lehman Brothers and the ratings agencies -- were undertaken largely to understand what had gone wrong in the crisis, rather than for law enforcement. Yet they uncovered evidence that could be a road map for federal officials as they decide whether to bring civil and criminal cases.
One person who already has come under investigation is Jonathan M. Egol. A senior trader at Goldman who worked closely with Mr. Tourre, he had a negative view on the housing market early on, and took a lead role in creating mortgage securities like Abacus that enabled Goldman and certain clients to place bets that proved profitable when the housing market collapsed.
Last year the S.E.C. examined Mr. Egol's role in the Abacus deal in its lawsuit, according to a report by the commission's inspector general. But Mr. Egol, now a managing director at the bank, was not named in the case, in part because he was more discreet in his e-mails than Mr. Tourre was, so there was less evidence against him, according to a person with knowledge of the S.E.C.'s case.
Though Mr. Tourre was a more junior member of the Goldman team, the S.E.C. case against him was bolstered by colorful e-mails he wrote, calling mortgage securities like those he created monstrosities and joking that he sold them to ''widows and orphans.''
The S.E.C. declined to comment about its focus on Goldman and Mr. Tourre, beyond pointing to a section in its complaint that said that Mr. Tourre had been ''principally responsible'' for the Abacus deal in the case.
A spokesman for Goldman, Lucas van Praag, did not dispute that Mr. Tourre had worked on the Abacus deal as part of a collaborative team. But he said that the bank had disagreed with many of the conclusions about its mortgage unit contained in the recent Senate report. Mr. Egol and his lawyer did not respond to inquiries for comment.
As the government continues to investigate the activities of Goldman and other banks, it is uncertain whether other individuals will be named. Neil M. Barofsky, who as the first inspector general of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the federal bank bailout program, investigated whether banks had properly obtained and handled the money they received, said prosecutors should look as high up as possible.
''Obviously in any investigation that results in charges against a company,'' he said, ''you'd like to see the highest-ranking person responsible for the conduct at the company to be held accountable.''
A Booming Market
A math whiz who got his undergraduate degree at the Ecole Centrale in Paris, Fabrice Tourre joined Goldman in 2001 after getting a master's degree at Stanford. As the housing market and the demand for mortgages boomed over the next few years, Goldman went from creating just $3 billion of mortgage securities called collateralized debt obligations in 2002 to at least $22 billion in 2006, according to Dealogic, a financial data firm.
The C.D.O.'s were linked to the performance of underlying mortgages that were bundled into securities; as long as homeowners stayed current on payments, investors who bet that the housing market would stay healthy made money. Only if many borrowers defaulted would the investors lose money.
Goldman's mortgage desk worked as a tight team. Dan Sparks was the head of all mortgage operations, including the Abacus team, which Mr. Egol led.
The team worked so closely that its members shared a group e-mail address, ''Ficc-mtgcorr-desk.'' Nearly all of the e-mails about the Abacus deal in the S.E.C.'s case, as well as those about other, similar deals, were sent by Mr. Tourre or his colleagues using the shared e-mail address.
The 2007 memo that proposed the Abacus deal to higher managers at Goldman was signed by all seven members of the group. The marketing materials for Abacus, and other complex mortgage securities, often listed around 15 people in addition to Mr. Tourre, with their contact numbers.
Abacus and related mortgage securities deals were a huge success for Goldman, allowing the firm to earn tens of millions of dollars in fees by selling securities to investors and to place bets on the securities that helped Goldman perform better than most other banks during the crisis.
But Mr. Tourre's world would soon be turned upside down. In fall 2009, the S.E.C. issued him a Wells notice, a formal warning that he was likely to be named in a civil fraud suit for his role in the mortgage deals. Mr. Egol also received such a notice in 2010.
In their Oct. 10 response to the S.E.C., Mr. Tourre's lawyers, including Pamela Chepiga of Allen & Overy, made an argument that they have not emphasized publicly. They contended that ''singling Mr. Tourre out for criticism regarding the content of this clearly collaborative effort is unreasonable.''
These legal replies, which are not public, were provided to The New York Times by Nancy Cohen, an artist and filmmaker in New York also known as Nancy Koan, who says she found the materials in a laptop she had been given by a friend in 2006.
The friend told her he had happened upon the laptop discarded in a garbage area in a downtown apartment building. E-mail messages for Mr. Tourre continued streaming into the device, but Ms. Cohen said she had ignored them until she heard Mr. Tourre's name in news reports about the S.E.C. case. She then provided the material to The Times. Mr. Tourre's lawyer did not respond to an inquiry for comment.
In the drafted replies, lawyers for Mr. Tourre named the other Goldman employees who they say worked closely on the Abacus deal with him: In addition to Mr. Egol, they included David Gerst, a securities lawyer in the Abacus group and Darren Littlejohn, another lawyer at Goldman who worked on the deal; Cactus Raazi and Gail Kreitman, sales representatives; Shin Yukawa, a credit ratings specialist; and others.
The S.E.C. focused in the complaint on disclosures in the marketing of Abacus, saying that the sales documents had failed to tell investors that the deal was devised with the help of John A. Paulson, the billionaire hedge fund manager, who was not named in the case. Mr. Paulson's firm suggested that the deal be linked to mortgages for which he expected a high rate of default, the S.E.C. said; when that came to pass, the bets he placed against the securities proved very profitable for him. But investors on the other side lost more than $1 billion, according to the S.E.C.
Mr. Tourre's lawyers wrote that their client was ''simply one member of a large team that worked on the 2007-AC1 transaction'' -- referring to the Abacus deal -- ''and was entitled to rely on Goldman Sachs's institutional processes to ensure that disclosures were properly drafted.'' He was not a lawyer, they argued. Legal counsel on a deal, in this case Mr. Littlejohn and Mr. Gerst, typically review documents and decide what must be disclosed to investors.
The S.E.C. has not said why it focused on just one Abacus deal, even though other mortgage securities created by Goldman and other banks had similar designs and disclosures. In many of the securities, for example, there was an investor like Mr. Paulson or Goldman itself betting against the housing market, and often that party helped devise the deal, according to four former Goldman employees familiar with the securities.
Indeed, there was at least one other security that had involved Mr. Paulson, according to the 2007 memo written by Mr. Tourre's desk.
It was Mr. Egol's name that came up most prominently in Mr. Tourre's legal response to the S.E.C., as well as in interviews with traders knowledgeable about the Abacus deals.
A former colleague on Goldman's mortgage desk who now works for another financial firm said he did not understand why Mr. Tourre had been singled out. ''That has baffled me from the very beginning. I just can't even begin to tell you how junior and insignificant his role was,'' said this person, who asked not to be named because it could damage his career.
Mr. Tourre's lawyers also pointed to an e-mail that February from Mr. Egol, which said ''the cdo biz is dead we don't have a lot of time left.'' The S.E.C. pointed to that line as evidence that Mr. Tourre had known of the trouble in the market. Mr. Tourre's lawyers responded that those views were Mr. Egol's and ''not necessarily'' Mr. Tourre's.
The newly released Senate report also cites e-mails that it has made public, where Mr. Egol seems to have the stronger views. On Jan. 29, 2007, for instance, Mr. Egol wrote to Mr. Tourre that ''the mkt is dead.'' Mr. Tourre replied, ''ouahhh, what do you mean by that? Do you have any insight I don't?''
In April 2010, when the S.E.C. filed its case against the bank and Mr. Tourre, the young banker told friends that he believed Goldman had been chosen to be the commission's ''case study,'' according to several who spoke on the condition that they not be identified. The friends also said they were concerned that Mr. Tourre's dependence on Goldman for advice and legal counsel was not in his best interest.
In September 2009, for instance, Mr. Tourre told friends he thought he had to use a lawyer from a list of lawyers at three firms that Goldman gave him.
Robert Follie, a lawyer in Paris, said Mr. Tourre told him he was not authorized to use lawyers other than those Goldman selected. Mr. Follie said he cautioned Mr. Tourre that his interests might diverge from Goldman's, so he should consider hiring his own counsel.
''As a practitioner, I mentioned to him that I felt the risk in the long run was that the lawyer who was acting for him might end up in a near conflict-of-interest situation,'' Mr. Follie, whose daughter is friends with Mr. Tourre, said in an interview last December.
After the S.E.C. case was filed in summer 2010, Mr. Follie wondered how Mr. Tourre had wound up as the only defendant. ''I felt that somewhere down the line, he must have done or not done the proper things to get out of this. I was personally wondering if he had sufficient representation disassociated from Goldman,'' he said.
Mr. van Praag, the Goldman spokesman, said the bank did not impose lawyers on its workers and had not done so on Mr. Tourre. He said that ''ultimately the decision is for the individual and counsel to determine whether they are right for each other.''
For the last year, Mr. Tourre has been on paid leave from Goldman's London office, where he was transferred after the United States mortgage trading business dried up.
Mr. van Praag also pointed to testimonyreleased this year to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, created by Congress to identify the cause of the economic crisis, as evidence that might help Mr. Tourre's case because it included statements supporting his claim that the deal had been created properly and independently of Mr. Paulson.
No Criminal Case
Even as Mr. Tourre awaits trial in the civil fraud case, it seems that he will not face criminal charges. When the S.E.C. referred the case to the Justice Department, the commission's top enforcement lawyer, Robert S. Khuzami, told his counterparts there that he did not believe it was a criminal case, according to two people briefed on the discussions.
Since Mr. Tourre was named in the case, other inquiries into the causes of the financial crisis have put the spotlight on activities of a number of Wall Street firms. This year, the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission released a 633-page report, and the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued its own 650-page report. While the S.E.C. focused solely on the single Abacus deal, the Senate's report raised questions about a handful of other Goldman mortgage securities.
The report also detailed Goldman's aggressive valuation of its customers' mortgage holdings. Goldman's ''senior management knew its sales force was selling C.D.O. securities at inflated prices'' and knew that those prices were dropping, the report said. It quoted from a Goldman sales representative's e-mail saying: ''Real bad feeling across European sales about some of the trades we did with clients.''
In addition, the Senate said that two Goldman employees, Deeb Salem and David Swenson, tried to manipulate prices of securities used to bet against mortgages. Both tried to help Goldman pile on larger bets against the mortgage market, and they wanted to be able to buy such negative bets more cheaply, the report said. Goldman, as a broker, was able to affect prices in the market through the bids and offers it gave out.
Mr. Swenson wrote in May 2007 that the bank should try to ''start killing'' prices on certain positions so that Goldman would be able to ''pick some high quality stuff,'' according to the Senate report. The strategy, Mr. Swenson wrote, would ''have people totally demoralized.'' The pair were unsuccessful in their attempt, and both denied making it to the Senate committee. Mr. van Praag said last week that the report had no evidence of manipulation.
Still, the Senate report said that ''trading with the intent to manipulate market prices, even if unsuccessful, is a violation of the federal securities laws.''
Goldman is not the only firm to have been scrutinized in public reports. Washington Mutual and Deutsche Bank, for instance, were also cited in the recent Senate report. And last year, a trustee examining the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy uncovered questionable accounting maneuvers at that firm. Companies like Bank of America, the American International Group and Moody's Investors Service have been featured in other hearings and reports.
Former United States prosecutors said there were limits to how these materials could be used in court. Still, they said, the reports should have given the government a head start on cases.
''They are good starting points,'' said Juliet Sorenson, a professor at Northwestern University School of Law. ''They are indicators of witnesses who would be subjects for additional interrogations; the reports may introduce documents which lead federal criminal investigators to do additional digging.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 2, 2011

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the dearth of prosecutions related to the mortgage crisis misspelled the surname of a professor at Northwestern University who commented on that trend. She is Juliet Sorensen, not Sorenson.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In April 2010, Fabrice Tourre waited to testify before a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A1)
Fabrice Tourre, formerly on the mortgage desk at Goldman Sachs, was sued by the S.E.C. for helping to sell a mortgage-securities investment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 John Paulson, the hedge fund manager, helped devise the Abacus deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A16) CHART: One Among Many Fabrice Tourre is the only Goldman Sachs employee to have been named in a Securities and Exchange Commission case related to the bank's mortgage unit. The S.E.C. says that Mr. Tourre failed to disclose pertinent information in early 2007 about a mortgage security called Abacus. But he was only one member of a team that developed and approved Abacus. A group at the bank, the structured product group, has received the most scrutiny since the crisis, but Goldman's mortgage department had hundreds of employees. Here is how the department looked at the end of 2007, after downsizing had begun. (Source: Internal Goldman Sachs document) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); INSURANCE (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (91%); ERIC HOLDER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



6 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: New Rescue Package for Greece Takes Shape: Deal Addresses Need for Cash, But Puts Off Restructuring

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
LONDON -- A new rescue package for Greece is taking shape, one that would offer billions of euros in new loans in return for accelerated privatization and tougher tax collection measures on the part of the beleaguered Greek government, European officials said on Tuesday.
While the agreement for as much as 60 billion euros ($86 billion), would in theory address Greece's need for cash this year and next, it puts off for the time being a restructuring, hard or soft, of Greece's huge debt burden.
At the deal's heart would be an informal understanding that the private sector holders of Greek government bonds might be persuaded to roll over their debts, or extend new loans when their older obligations come due.
By taking on more dubious Greek risk -- backed by new money from Europe and the International Monetary Fund -- exposed banks would not just step back from the precipice of a ''haircut,'' or a forced loss on their bonds, they might also hope that in another two years Greece will be in a better position to repay its debts in full. 
The expectation that Europe will again come to Greece's rescue bolstered both the euro and stocks on Tuesday. Yields on Greek 10-year bonds have dropped sharply, to 15.7 percent on Tuesday from a high of 16.8 percent last week. European stocks rose nearly 2 percent, and the United States market was up about 1 percent.
''Restructuring is off the table,'' a senior official in the Greek Finance Ministry said. ''For now it is all about growth, growth, growth.'' This person, who spoke on condition of anonymity while the talks continued, said an announcement from the European Union, the I.M.F. and the European Central Bank could come as soon as Friday or early next week.
Later in June, the European Union first and then the I.M.F. would approve the additional financing, thus clearing the way for 12.5 billion euros to be disbursed to Athens at the end of the month.
The new loans, however, will be forthcoming only if more austerity measures are introduced.
Along with faster progress on privatization, Europe and the fund have been demanding that Greece finally begin cutting public sector jobs and closing down unprofitable entities.
They also have been pressing Greek politicians to unite behind the new austerity package to help ensure it sticks, and are discussing a decrease in the value-added tax as a concession to win support from the right-of-center opposition, which wants more tax relief to help the moribund economy.
A team of bankers and technical experts from the international institutions have been in Athens for close to a month, trying to find a solution to Greece's financial condition.
Harsh austerity measures have taken a severe toll on the economy, resulting in missed financial targets and the need for more public money.
Adding to the urgency has been the persistent flow of deposits out of the banking sector. Since the crisis began, 60 billion euros in deposits have been withdrawn from Greek banks, about a quarter of the country's output. Bankers in Athens said that outflows were particularly severe last Thursday and Friday after comments -- later described as rhetorical -- by a Greek politician about the possibility that Greece could stop using the euro.
With great reluctance, European governments have come to the conclusion that an additional 60 billion euros now, while politically unappealing, would be less costly than the unquantifiable public money that would be needed if a restructuring of Greece's debt produced a contagion that spread not just to Portugal and Ireland but possibly Spain and the financial system as a whole.
But how an economy already in free fall will generate the growth to produce the needed budgetary surplus to start paying down its debt remains unanswered.
''Greece's G.D.P. is already declining, and now the government will need to cut another 7 billion euros in spending,'' said Jason Manolopoulos, who manages a hedge fund based in Athens and Geneva and is the author of ''Greece's 'Odious' Debt: The Looting of the Hellenic Republic by the Euro, the Political Elite and the Investment Community.''
''That is only going to make the debt to G.D.P. figures worse,'' he said. ''There is no getting around it: Greece is insolvent.''
With a debt of 150 percent of G.D.P., that may well be so. But while skeptics like Mr. Manolopoulos are keeping the cash levels in their funds high, convinced that Greece will be required to default sooner rather than later, such a sense of pressing gloom has not yet become contagious.
The big bet for Europe and the I.M.F. is whether private-sector banks can be persuaded to keep their Greek exposure. This new approach is patterned on a 2008 pact called the Vienna Initiative, in which the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the I.M.F. persuaded banks with exposure in Hungary, Romania and other East European countries to keep their credit lines fresh while new public sector loans were provided to these countries.
There is, however, a big difference between jawboning a regional public institution to lend more to a country in which it already has operations than persuading a risk-averse commercial bank in France, Germany or Italy to lend more to a country that it wants to permanently cut ties to.
What is more, there is a significant difference in the sums involved. A report Tuesday by the credit ratings agency Fitch suggested that the 50 billion to 60 billion euros being discussed might not be enough, and that as much as 100 billion euros in extra financing would be needed to give Greece the time and space to return to solvency.
Another crucial point is the extent to which ''reform fatigue'' in Greece might prevent the ambitious deficit-cutting targets from being reached. A recent survey by Kapa Research found strong support for privatization, but two other polls found support for the governing Socialists at the lowest level since 2009 elections.
Prime Minister George A. Papandreou still has a comfortable majority in Parliament, but his credibility has been damaged as the economic growth stagnates and unemployment rises.
In fact, the dynamic of protesters has changed drastically over the last several weeks. No longer is it just union leaders condemning the government's policies, but a broader collection of people, mostly young, who have been inspired by a protest movement in Spain.
Their numbers so far have not been large, but they have been consistent -- filling up the main Syntagma Square in Athens for seven days running.
''People here have lost 30 percent of their income,'' said Theodore Pelagidis, an economist based in Athens and author of a recent book on the collapse of the Greek economy.
''It is nice that we are getting a loan from Angela Merkel,'' Mr. Pelagidis added, referring to the German chancellor, ''but I am not sure this will be enough given the depth of the recession. We are just kicking the can further down the road until the time finally comes to restructure the debt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters gathered in front of the Greek Parliament on Tuesday. Many of them are young people who were inspired by the protest movement in Spain. (B1)
 People demonstrating against austerity measures in Greece made their feelings known in Athens on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIS MESSINIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TAX LAW (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); VALUE ADDED TAX (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); CLOSINGS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (81%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (93%) EUROPE (98%); GREECE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



7 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: East Side Law Firms Go West, as Far as Eighth Ave.

BYLINE: By JOTHAM SEDERSTROM

 BODY:
Even before the law firm Wilk Auslander began looking for a new headquarters last summer, veteran lawyers were sharing offices or relegated to tiny cubicles at its offices on Third Avenue.
But Wilk Auslander, which was founded in 1987 and has 45 lawyers and 25 staff members, was not simply looking for more square footage. Across the East Side and along Park Avenue, in fact, space was vacant and ready to lease.
Robert Reichman, a partner, said the firm's real estate puzzle involved numerous missing pieces, not least of all a floor plan that could allow private offices to wrap around all four walls.
''Our biggest challenge was not square footage at all, but just having sufficient perimeter offices -- or offices all along the window lines of the building,'' Mr. Reichman said. ''We're all lawyers here, and because of confidentiality issues and working conditions we try to give them all their own offices. And on the East Side, we just couldn't find that.'' 
In April, Wilk Auslander signed a lease at 1515 Broadway, between 44th and 45th Streets, and in doing so will follow in the footsteps of many other practices -- small, large, white-shoe and blue-collar -- that have recently migrated from the East Side of Manhattan to newer, more cost-efficient offices on the West Side.
Since the beginning of last year, more than a dozen firms have crossed Fifth Avenue -- Manhattan's vertical axis -- with some establishing roots as far west as Eighth Avenue, brokers said.
Last year, space occupied by law firms west of Fifth Avenue grew by 3.1 million square feet, from 7.2 million feet in 2009 to 10.3 million feet in 2010, according to numbers provided by Cushman & Wakefield. Most of that growth reflected deals inked along Sixth Avenue, data shows.
Along with Zukerman Gore Brandeis & Crossman, a firm that in April signed a deal to move from 875 Third Avenue to an 17,144-square-foot space at 11 Times Square, a handful of other large practices in Manhattan have made similar shifts.
Most significant, perhaps, is Morrison & Foerster, which last week signaled that it had signed on as the 180,000-square-foot anchor of Boston Properties' unbuilt tower at 250 West 55th Street.
But Zukerman Gore was not the first law firm to consider 11 Times Square, nor was Morrison & Foerster the first to peruse plans for 250 West 55th Street.
Three years ago, Proskauer Rose, among the largest firms in New York, explored space at both buildings before sealing a 400,00-square-foot deal in early 2010 at 11 Times Square, the $1.2 billion tower that topped out last year.
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher also briefly considered signing on as an anchor tenant at 250 West 55th Street before choosing, instead, to renew its lease and expand by 70,000 square feet at the Met Life Building at 200 Park.
Stephen Siegel, the chairman of CB Richard Ellis's global brokerage, said Proskauer Rose was feeling pressure to move from its longtime space at 1585 Broadway, where Morgan Stanley has headquarters.
''They had a landlord who didn't really want them in the building because they were in a headquarters,'' said Mr. Siegel, who represented 11 Times Square, ''and you really don't want someone else right in the middle of your headquarters building.''
The reasons for the shift are varied, but the West Side's growing stock of buildings with updated technology, higher operating efficiencies and, in some cases, environmentally friendly features are all major draws, brokers say.
''There clearly has been a growing trend in the law firm community of moving farther west,'' said Robert Goodman, an executive managing director at Colliers International, which has represented several law firm transactions.
''It's very evident, when you look at some of these major law firms that have recently signed transactions, that the West Side properties seem to be doing a better job of accommodating both their current and future needs,'' Mr. Goodman said.
Lawyers and brokers say the westward movement isn't new -- the trend began as early as 1989 when Cravath, Swaine & Moore signed on as anchor tenants at Worldwide Plaza. But only in the last year have law practices resumed discussions about major real estate decisions after the economic crash, some lawyers said.
''This isn't a new phenomenon, but relative to the activity now versus, say, 2005 or 2006, I think it's fairly comparable,'' said Gus Field, an executive vice president at Cushman & Wakefield. ''There are a lot of law firms in the market, and I think each of them has some very strong drivers that they're seeing solutions for.''
For Robert Dwyer, a partner at Dorsey & Whitney, the decision to move to the CBS building at 51 West 52nd Street from 250 Park Avenue satisfied a need for a more flexible lease arrangement. But the building, which also houses the law practices of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, also has what brokers say is a highly efficient design.
Until fairly recently the guiding measurement had been about 1,000 square feet for private offices, but modern building design now allows the same lawyers to occupy 750-square-foot offices without noticing the difference.
''Here, we've got the same number of people, but we're taking less space,'' said Mr. Dwyer of the 70,000-square-foot office that the firm will migrate to in June. ''We can use it more efficiently in a better building at a lower cost.''
When the firm Buckley Sandler was formed in 2009 by a group of lawyers from Skadden Arps and Buckley Kolar, the plan was to take temporary space on Fifth Avenue and look elsewhere for new space within a year or two.
In May the firm expanded from its 5,000 square feet to 17,000 at 1133 Avenue of the Americas, with a strategy to sublease for several years until an anticipated round of hiring.
Stephen Ambrose, a partner at the firm, said the decision had less to do with upgraded electrical amenities and operating efficiency than it did with proximity. Like many competitors, the firm's lawyers hail from suburbs in New Jersey, Upstate New York and Connecticut, among other places.
''For us, the location was just terrific,'' said Mr. Ambrose, who said the firm will sublease about 5,500 square feet until it begins recruiting new lawyers. ''It's got proximity to Grand Central, Penn Station and, really, all the key subway arteries, which makes it just terrific for commuting and for access to clients across the entire city.''
The final frontier, however, may be Hudson Yards, the city-led development project by the Related Companies that envisions a huge mixed-use complex of five skyscrapers spanning 11th and 12th Avenues and stretching from 30th to 33rd Streets.
Mr. Siegel of CB Richard Ellis said he thought it was just a matter of time before trendsetters move once again.
''I think law firms will continue to go west, as they say, young man,'' he said. ''And it will happen again, and the final proof will be Hudson Yards.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 9, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the Square Feet pages on June 1, about law firms moving to the West Side of Manhattan, misstated the size of the space that Zukerman Gore Brandeis & Crossman is leasing at 11 Times Square. It is 17,144 square feet, not 11,000 square feet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen Ambrose, above, in the new West Side office of his law firm, Buckley Sandler. Left, Robert Dwyer, a partner in Dorsey & Whitney, which moved to West 52nd Street from Park Avenue. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (91%); LAWYERS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: WILK AUSLANDER LLP (92%); GIBSON DUNN & CRUTCHER LLP (84%); ZUKERMAN GORE BRANDEIS & CROSSMAN LLP (82%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (58%); MORRISON & FOERSTER LLP (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011



8 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Leader Transcends Complex Politics of Turkey

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID

 BODY:
BURSA, Turkey -- The cries tumbled from a balcony as Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan swaggered down the campaign trail in this picturesque industrial city and former Ottoman capital. ''Papa Tayyip!'' went the refrain, drawing a wry smile from the man himself.
The words may have lacked the weight of ''Father of the Turks,'' the title given Mustafa Kemal Ataturk after he established modern Turkey in 1923. But it said much about Mr. Erdogan -- arrogant and populist to detractors, charismatic and visionary to supporters -- who will soon enter his second decade as leader of a country he has helped transform.
As Turkey heads to an election on June 12 -- the size of Mr. Erdogan's majority the only question -- the country faces an Arab Spring, which took it by surprise; ambitions that stretch beyond its means; and growing fears that Mr. Erdogan's eight years in office have decisively shifted power from the old secular elite and toward his party and the merchant class, migrants and downtrodden that it courts.
But even his critics acknowledge that this country of 79 million is a far different place from the one he inherited, emerging as a decisive power in a region long dominated by the United States. 
Though Turkey is still dogged by unemployment, its businesses are booming. In foreign policy, it is acting like the heir of the Ottoman Empire that preceded it, building relationships with Iran and Arab neighbors at the expense of Israel.
And in age-old questions of identities that have haunted the country -- Kurdish and Turkish, secular and religious -- the party has governed at a time when those divisions seem less pronounced and possibly less relevant to a modernizing country.
The electoral power in Turkey is Mr. Erdogan's Justice and Development Party, known by its Turkish acronym AK, as it has been since it won its first election in 2002. But the undisputed force in the country is Mr. Erdogan (pronounced ERR-doh-ahn), a 57-year-old former mayor of Istanbul, semiprofessional soccer player and favorite son of Kacimpasha, a neighborhood known for its tough and outspoken men (and women, too, some say).
While polls suggest that his party wins its votes through a campaign message that casts its leaders as modernizers, populists and devout custodians of the poor, Mr. Erdogan is far bigger than the party.
A recent survey found that half of its votes came by way of the prime minister himself, a popular mandate his party has used to push through economic reform and challenge the power of the old elite through constitutional amendments, court cases and, some say, intimidation.
''He's a phenomenon, really,'' said Yilmaz Esmer, a professor of political science at Bahcesehir University.
At a rally this month in Koaceli, another industrial town, Mr. Erdogan strode into a stadium packed with tens of thousands of supporters with the swagger of a brawler, legs slightly apart and stooped shoulders swaying. A crowd that had waited hours grew ecstatic. Mr. Erdogan took the stage in a suit with no tie, his hard stare hidden behind sunglasses.
''We didn't come to rule!'' he declared to adulation. ''We came to serve you!''
Mr. Erdogan compares well with any orator in the region, and has an innate sense of his audience. He is part Friday preacher, part neighborhood rabble-rouser, styling himself as an underdog even as he holds unquestioned power.
He is deeply pious, but his speech was short on religious fare. The message was instead Mr. Erdogan's trademark synthesis of populism, nationalism and moralism, wrapped in a litany of schools built, roads paved, sewers rehabilitated and hospitals refurbished. ''We did all of this, and we'll do better now,'' he promised. As with the party's appeal, his crowd was a cross section of Turkey, with a large group of the hard faces of the disenfranchised in the heartland of Anatolia that Mr. Erdogan courts.
''I've liked him ever since he was mayor of Istanbul,'' said Mahmune Uyan, a 46-year-old homemaker who brought her three sons to the rally and draped herself in an orange party flag. ''Since then, he was a brother in this world and the world to come.''
Mr. Erdogan's style of populism dates from the 1950s in Turkey. He is said to have sold lemonade and sesame buns as a youth in Kacimpasha, and the residents there revere him as a favorite son. At the Saray Cafe, festooned with Mr. Erdogan's portraits, Yasar Kirici, the owner, insisted that the prime minister knew every resident by name.
Mr. Kirici grew angry over a look of disbelief at the claim. ''Without a doubt!'' he shouted, jabbing his finger into his chest.
On the wall was a portrait of Mr. Erdogan side by side with Mr. Ataturk. Another showed him at a neighborhood circumcision ceremony. A large portrait captured him berating President Shimon Peres of Israel at a meeting in Davos, Switzerland, in 2009.
There is a longstanding debate over whether Turkey has tilted east after decades of embracing the West as a NATO member and almost reflexive ally of the United States. It still nominally embraces the goal of joining the European Union, carrying out reforms mandated by the entry process that have made Turkey a far more liberal place.
But sensing a decline of American power in the region, Turkish officials have become sharply more assertive in the Middle East, priding themselves on keeping open channels to virtually every party.
The policy falls under the rubric of ''zero problems'' with its neighbors, though successes have been few. Problems remain with Armenia, and Turkey was unable to resolve the conflict in Cyprus, still divided by Greek and Turkish zones. Once serving as a mediator between Syria and Israel, its relationship with the latter collapsed after Israeli troops killed nine people onboard a Turkish flotilla trying to break the blockade of Gaza.
''The problem lies with Israel,'' Mr. Erdogan said bluntly in an interview.
Its own officials admit that the Foreign Ministry remains too small for its ambitions as a regional power. At least $15 billion in investments were lost in the civil war in Libya. And Syria -- viewed as Turkey's fulcrum for integrating the region's economy -- faces a revolt that has tested Mr. Erdogan's friendship with President Bashar al-Assad. While some see Egypt as a newfound ally of Turkey, others view it as an emerging rival in a region where Mr. Erdogan remains one of the most popular figures.
The optimism derives from Mr. Erdogan's greatest legacy -- an economy that has more than tripled since 2002 and whose exports have gone to $114 billion a year from $36 billion. Europe remains its pre-eminent market, but its businessmen have plied Ottoman trade routes with a sense of unabashed optimism at untapped markets. Many hail from Anatolia, sharing the party's ideology of social conservatism and economic liberalism, with a hint of nostalgia for the old empire.
They like to recite Mr. Erdogan's contention that Turkey will be Europe's second biggest economy after Germany by 2050. The confidence Mr. Erdogan sometimes inspires is so pronounced it borders on jingoism.
''We don't want to be a second- or third-rate people,'' said Hakan Cinkilic, the foreign trade manager of Sun Pet, a plastics factory in Gaziantep, near the Syrian border, whose exports have more than doubled in three years. ''We should be first.''
The sense of ebullience seems to have washed across the longstanding divides in the country. They, of course, still exist. Many intellectuals fear that a resounding victory next month will allow Mr. Erdogan's party to rewrite the Constitution, with little input from the opposition, perhaps even creating a presidential system, which Mr. Erdogan has suggested.
Mr. Erdogan's own authoritarian streak -- his sensitivity to caricatures, disdain of criticism and methodical attempts to dismantle the old-guard secular elite in the military and courts -- has lost the party some of the liberal support that it had early on.
One professor called Mr. Erdogan arrogant, then pleaded for the quote not to be published, fearing he might lose his job. But even he acknowledged that the longstanding fears that Mr. Erdogan would impose his piety on the country had not come to pass.
The main opposition party has tried to extract itself from debate over religious versus secular emphasis, judging it a losing stand in a conservative country. Where once Mr. Ataturk was the rallying cry for secular Turkey, the opposition's leader hardly mentions him by name.
Recent polling has suggested that voters themselves are less wed to the old definitions of secular and religious in a country where Mr. Ataturk once considered putting pews in mosques and introducing classical Western music at services.
In a survey last year by Iksara, a local firm, voters between the ages of 18 and 25 were asked to identify their ideological stands. More than a third of Mr. Erdogan's supporters offered Kemalist, the ideology of Mr. Ataturk, as one of their identities.
''People are tired of old identities, this nationalist divide, this religious divide,'' said Selcuk Sirin, a professor at New York University who helped with the polling.
''There's a generational issue here,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of Turkey's governing Justice and Development Party shouted slogans at an election rally in Istanbul on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOLGA BOZOGLU/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A1)
 Supporters of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan at a rally in Ankara, Turkey, on Sunday, ahead of June 12 elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADEM ALTAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); RELIGION (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); ATHLETES (50%); SOCCER (50%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



9 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Calendar

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
Sweet Talk
A talk about the history of honey, with a tasting, will be given on Friday from noon to 1 p.m. at the 92nd Street Y TriBeCa, 200 Hudson Street (Canal Street); $25. Also on Friday from 1 to 4 p.m. the Y will lead a pizza walking tour, with stops at four pizza places and a chance to rate them, starting at Gnocco, 337 East 10th Street. Tickets, $55: 92YTribeca.org.
The Stalls at Fulton 
The Fulton Stall Market on South Street between Fulton and Beekman Streets opened for the season last weekend and will open on Sundays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Directly across South Street, the New Amsterdam Market will open on Sundays through the fall from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. (except for July 3, Sept. 4 and Nov. 27), with more than 60 artisanal vendors.
Five-Course Dessert
Ice cream from soup to nuts will be featured at a five-course dinner on Monday from 6 to 8:30 p.m. at the Roger Smith Hotel, 501 Lexington Avenue (47th Street), with dishes like salmon tartare with horseradish ice cream, chilled pea soup with yogurt ice cream, beet carpaccio with goat cheese ice cream and venison loin with lingonberry ice cream. Laura Weiss, who wrote ''Ice Cream: A Global History,'' will speak; $48.36 with the booking fee: eventbrite.com.
Head to Tail
A class in grilling a whole fish will be held on Monday at Thalassa, 179 Franklin Street (Hudson Street). On June 13 there will be a class in making Greek desserts for summer. Each class starts at 5 p.m.; $65: (212) 941-7661.
Surf, Turf, Charity
An evening of surf and turf, with food from Dickson's Farmstand Meats and the Lobster Place, plus drinks and music, will be given on Tuesday from 6 to 9 p.m. at Chelsea Market, in the event space at 410 West 16th Street. Tickets, $60 (admission for only those
21 or older) will benefit Food Systems NYC,
which works to promote
a regional farm economy:
dicksonsfarmstand.com.
Discuss, Then Sip
Claudia Roden, a cookbook author, will discuss the food of Spain on June 8 at 7 p.m. at the Queen Sofia Spanish Institute, 684 Park Avenue (68th Street), followed by a reception with Spanish wines; $25 for members of Culinary Historians of New York, $40 for others:
culinaryhistoriansny.org.
Trans-Atlantic Effort
Omnivore, a Paris-based gastronomic organization, will present three dinners with European chefs cooking alongside New Yorkers. On June 9, Michael Anthony of Gramercy Tavern will collaborate with Mads Refslund of MR in Copenhagen; June 10, it will be Giovanni Passerini of Rino in Paris with Carlo Mirachi of Roberta's; and on June 11, Jean-Francois Piege of Thoumieux in Paris will be in the kitchen with John Fraser of Dovetail and What Happens When. All dinners will be at What Happens When, 25 Cleveland Place (Spring Street), at 6:30 and 8:30 p.m.; $125 with tax and wine, tip is extra: (212) 925-8310.
Happy Birthday, Blog
A celebration of the fifth anniversary of Midtown Lunch, a blog, will be held
at City Winery, 155 Varick Street
(Vandam Street) on June 11 from noon to 3 p.m., with food from places like Food Gallery 32 and Ma Peche, as well as from trucks. Tickets, $56.99: midtownlunch.com.
A Roll-Off?
A competition among 18 purveyors of lobster rolls will be staged on June 9 by Tasting Table, a food Web site, at Center 548, 548 West 22nd Street. V.I.P. tickets for admission at 6:30 with lobster rolls to eat, and drinks, are still available, $257.50, to benefit Share Our Strength: tastingtable.com/rumble.
FLORENCE FABRICANT

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THANK THE BEES: The history of honey will be discussed Friday at the 92nd Street Y Tribeca. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); HISTORY (73%); CHEESE (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); WRITERS (65%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



10 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally on Promise of More Help for Greece

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Global stocks powered ahead and crude oil rose Tuesday on expectations that a second financial aid package would be approved for Greece.
On Wall Street, shares rose more than 1 percent on a late rally, after paring gains earlier after disappointing data on consumer confidence.
At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 128.21 points, or 1.03 percent, at 12,569.79. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 14.10 points, or 1.06 percent, to 1,345.20. The Nasdaq composite index added 38.44 points, or 1.37 percent, to 2,835.30. 
Despite the gains on Tuesday, the major stock indexes have had their worst month since last August. For the month, the Dow is down 1.9 percent, the S.& P. 500 is down 1.4 percent and the Nasdaq is down 1.3 percent.
On Tuesday, European officials met in Vienna to sketch out options for a second financial rescue for Greece, with private sector participation still under discussion to help relieve the country of its heavy debt burden.
The euro rose to $1.4378 against the dollar. Even then, there were doubts the gains could be sustained.
''I would fade this rally in the euro for now,'' said Valentin Marinov, currency strategist at Citigroup. ''Investors will be looking for a more lasting resolution to the Greek debt problems and our economists haven't ruled out the possibility of a voluntary restructuring involving private bondholders.''
The weaker dollar helped lift commodities, driving up oil $2.11 to $102.70 in New York.
Chevron gained 1.65 percent to $104.91. The S.& P. energy index added 0.5 percent.
On Wall Street, the optimism on aid for Greece drove sentiment, overshadowing another round of weaker-than-expected United States economic data.
The Conference Board, an industry group, said its index of consumer attitudes fell in May to 60.8 from a revised 66.0 in April. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago's index of Midwest business activity dropped 11 points in May, to 56.6, from 67.6 in April.
Single-family home prices also dropped in March to levels below 2009, according to the S.& P.'s Case Shiller composite index of 20 metropolitan areas, which cited heavy inventory and weak demand.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 3/32, to 100 17/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.06 percent, from 3.07 percent late Friday.
The grim economic data suggested more hurdles ahead as the S.& P. closed out its worst month since last August.
''Today is a good day, but the fact that the Dow gave up its early gains and is going to close lower for the month isn't positive,'' said Donald Selkin, chief market strategist at National Securities in New York. ''There's a conflict between the economic reports coming in lower than expected and the hope for resolution out of Greece.''
The United States-listed stock of the Finnish mobile phone maker Nokia was the most heavily traded on the New York Stock Exchange, falling as much as 17 percent to a session low at $6.80, also a 52-week low, after the company abandoned hope of meeting crucial targets just weeks after setting them.
Nokia shares closed at $7.02, down 14 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BONDS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); HOME PRICES (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (68%) GREECE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



11 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: The Bin Laden Decade

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Visiting the Middle East last week, and then coming back to Washington, I am left with one overriding impression: Bin Laden really did a number on all of us.
I am talking in particular about the Arab states, America and Israel -- all of whom have deeper holes than ever to dig out of thanks to the Bin Laden decade, 2001 to 2011, and all of whom have less political authority than ever to make the hard decisions needed to get out of the holes.
Let's start with the Arabs. In 2001, Osama bin Laden attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Just a few months later, in 2002, the U.N. issued the ''Arab Human Development Report,'' which described the very pathologies that produced Al Qaeda and prescribed remedies for overcoming them. The report, written by Arab experts, said the Arab states suffered from three huge deficits: a deficit of freedom and respect for human rights as the bases of good governance, a deficit of knowledge in the form of decent schooling and a deficit of women's empowerment. 
Instead of America and the Arab world making that report their joint post-Bin Laden agenda, they ignored it. Washington basically gave the Arab dictators a free pass to tighten their vise grip on their people -- as long as these Arab leaders arrested, interrogated and held the Islamic militants in their societies and eliminated them as a threat to us.
It wasn't meant as a free pass, and we really did have a security problem with jihadists, and we really didn't mean to give up on our freedom agenda -- but Arab leaders, like Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, sensed where our priorities were. That is why Mubarak actually arrested the one Egyptian who dared to run against him for president in his last election, and he and the other Arab autocrats moved to install their sons as successors.
As the Arab leaders choked their people that much tighter, along came Facebook, Twitter and cellphone cameras, which enabled those people to share grievances, organize rebellions, lose their fear and expose their leaders: ''Smile, your brutality is on Candid Camera.''
That's the good news. The challenging news is that because of the Bin Laden decade, these newly liberated Arab states are in an even deeper hole in terms of economic development, population growth and education. They each have a huge amount of catch-up to do that will require some painful economic and educational reforms.
But as one can quickly detect from a visit to Cairo, right now Egypt has a political vacuum and, if anything, is tending toward more populist, less-market-oriented economics. Yet, in return for infusions of cash, Egypt will probably have to accept some kind of I.M.F.-like austerity-reform package and slash government employment -- just when unemployment and expectations are now sky high. Right now, no Egyptian party or leader has the authority that will be required to implement such reforms.
In America, President George W. Bush used the post-9/11 economic dip to push through a second tax cut we could not afford. He followed that with a Medicare prescription drug entitlement we cannot afford and started two wars in the wake of 9/11 without raising taxes to pay for them -- all at a time when we should have been saving money in anticipation of the baby boomers' imminent retirement. As such, our nation's fiscal hole is deeper than ever and Republicans and Democrats -- rather than coming together and generating the political authority needed for us to take our castor oil to compensate for our binge -- are just demonizing one another.
As the Israeli political theorist Yaron Ezrahi points out, governance is based on authority ''that is generated in one of two ways -- by trust or by fear. Both of those sources of authority are disintegrating right now.'' The Arab leaders governed by fear, and their people are not afraid anymore. And the Western democracies governed by generating trust, but their societies today are more splintered than ever.
Israel has the same problem. The combination of Yasir Arafat's foolhardy decision to start a second intifada rather than embrace President Bill Clinton's two-state peace plan, followed by the rise of Bin Laden, which diverted the U.S. from energetically pursuing the peace process, gave the Israeli right a free hand to expand West Bank settlements. There are now some 500,000 settlers in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.
Absent some amazing Palestinian peace overture, and maybe even with one, I do not see any Israeli leader with enough authority today to pull Israel out of the West Bank. So, for now, Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu and Bin Laden both win: In the short run, Bibi gets to keep the West Bank, with 300,000 Jews occupying 2.4 million Palestinians. And in the long run, Bin Laden helps to destroy Israel as a Jewish democracy.
For all these reasons, I find myself asking the same question in Cairo, Washington and Jerusalem: ''Who will tell the people?'' Who will tell the people how deep the hole is that Bin Laden helped each of us dig over the last decade -- and who will tell the people how hard and how necessary it will be to climb out?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); EDUCATION REFORM (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (61%); SOCIAL MEDIA (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (78%) EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



12 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Winnipeg Becomes Thrashers' New Home

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN

 BODY:
After 15 years, the N.H.L. is returning to Winnipeg.
The sale of the Atlanta Thrashers to the Winnipeg firm True North Sports and Entertainment was announced Tuesday at a news conference in the Manitoba city.
''It is nice to be back in Winnipeg after all these years,'' Gary Bettman, the commissioner of the N.H.L., said at the news conference. He added: ''We get to be back in a place we wish we hadn't left in 1996.''
Hundreds gathered at the central downtown intersection of Portage and Main, forcing the police to shut down the intersection. Fans also gathered at another downtown area, the Forks, where they watched on a large television screen.
A name for the Winnipeg team has not yet been chosen. 
''We know that it is a matter of great importance to the community,'' said Mark Chipman, chairman of True North. ''It is one of the first orders of business we will turn to.''
The Winnipeg Jets were a founding member of the World Hockey Association in 1972. The Jets joined the N.H.L. in 1979. After years of little success on the ice, low attendance and a struggling Canadian economy, the Jets moved to Phoenix in 1996 and became the Coyotes.
The relocation triggered an outpouring of sadness in Winnipeg, with children contributing coins from their piggy banks as part of an unsuccessful drive to keep the franchise in the city.
It took more than nickels, dimes and loonies -- Canadian dollar coins -- to bring a team back to Winnipeg. Another True North principle, David Thomson, is chairman of Thomson Reuters. The purchase price of the team was not disclosed but is believed to be about $170 million, which includes a $60 million relocation fee.
''There's such a broad range of emotion that I'm trying to reconcile today,'' Chipman said. He said it was hard to express ''how important participating in the N.H.L. is to this community.''
Bettman said an agreement to sell the team was not reached until 4:30 a.m. Tuesday.
The sale and relocation of the Thrashers is expected to be approved at the N.H.L. board of governors meeting in New York on June 21, making it the first N.H.L. franchise relocation since the Hartford Whalers moved to Carolina and became the Hurricanes in 1997.
The news conference was held at the MTS Centre, which in 2004 replaced Winnipeg Arena. The arena holds 15,000 fans but can be expanded, according to True North.
True North announced a drive to sell 13,000 season tickets before next season begins.The move was widely expected over the last three weeks, as news leaked out that the Atlanta Spirit Group, the owner of the Thrashers, could not find a buyer that would keep the Thrashers in Atlanta. The team was estimated to be losing more than $30 million a year.
''To our fans in Atlanta, we are not happy about leaving Atlanta,'' Bettman said.
Mayor Kasim Reed of Atlanta said Tuesday that he was trying to block the move by finding local ownership for the Thrashers. It was the first public expression of such an effort by Reed, who has been criticized by fans for not fighting to keep the team in the city.
''We have put an extraordinary amount of effort in trying to put together a local ownership group, and we have really pushed hard,'' Reed said. ''It's important to me, one, because I don't like to lose, and, two, because I believe having the full accompaniment of major sports franchises says something about a city, and Atlanta is a world-class city.''
But the Atlanta Spirit Group issued a statement that appeared to make matters final.
''Earlier today, we, along with our partners, signed an asset purchase agreement to sell the Atlanta Thrashers to True North Sports and Entertainment,'' the statement said. ''It's extremely disappointing to all of us that it became necessary after all other options were exhausted.''
The Thrashers went to Atlanta in 1999 as an expansion franchise. They made the playoffs only once, in 2007, and were swept by the Rangers. Their attendance consistently ranked among the bottom three in the N.H.L.
The loss of the Thrashers marks the second N.H.L. team lost by Atlanta. In 1980, the Atlanta Flames, an expansion franchise founded in 1972, moved to Calgary.
The N.H.L. has declined to comment on a possible realignment when the new Winnipeg team starts play next season. It is considered probable that the club will remain in the Southeast Division, where the Thrashers played, for 2011-12.
Eventually a realignment is expected, in which Winnipeg would be placed in the Northwest Division with Minnesota, Edmonton, Calgary and Vancouver, and other clubs would be shuffled, including, possibly, a move by Detroit, Columbus or Nashville from the Western Conference to the East.
Another less likely possibility includes the reapportionment of the league into three 10-team conferences, including one that includes Winnipeg and the other six Canadian clubs.
The return of an N.H.L. team to Winnipeg signals a resurgence of Canadian economic power in the business of hockey.
The Jets left Winnipeg at a low point for the Canadian economy, when the loonie was worth less than 70 cents to the American dollar.
That effectively raised operating costs for the N.H.L.'s Canadian teams, which numbered eight then. Two eventually moved: the Quebec Nordiques, who became the Colorado Avalanche in 1995; and the Jets, who became the Coyotes.
But today the loonie is worth slightly more than the dollar, opening the door for American teams performing poorly at the gate to relocate north. That, along with the enormous public enthusiasm for hockey, makes a small city like Winnipeg attractive again.
The population of the Winnipeg metropolitan area is only about 750,000, the smallest in the N.H.L. behind Edmonton with a million.
The smallest American metropolitan area in the league is Buffalo, with about 1.2 million people, but that does not count a population of roughly equal size living right across the border in Ontario's Niagara Peninsula.
Despite the enthusiasm of Winnipeggers, who never abandoned hope that the Jets might return, the success of a new Winnipeg club is not assured. There is little corporate presence in the city, making the revenue-spinning sale of luxury suites a difficult proposition.
And the Jets' average attendance in their last season, 1995-96, was only 11,316, the lowest in the league.
''To be frank, this isn't going to work well unless this building is sold out every night,'' Bettman said.
The next city considered to be in line to gain a relocated N.H.L. club is Quebec, with the Coyotes thought to be the likeliest candidate for transfer. The Coyotes have been owned by the N.H.L. for more than a year after its previous owner put the club in bankruptcy protection.
The municipal government of Glendale, Ariz., has paid the N.H.L. $25 million as a guarantee against losses for next season. The city is hoping to negotiate a lease agreement with a buyer, Matthew Hulsizer, but there have been legal roadblocks.
It is believed that if the sale does not go through, the team will move to Quebec, where the provincial and municipal government is moving forward with plans to build a new arena with a mix of public and private funds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (88%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CITIES (77%); RELOCATIONS (70%); APPROVALS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA THRASHERS (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); WINNIPEG JETS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) MANITOBA, CANADA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



13 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2339 words

HEADLINE: The Chef in Motion

BYLINE: By JEFF GORDINIER

 BODY:
''A GUY like Todd's got 60 things going on his head,'' Richard Henriksen said. ''So a workout clears the mind a bit.''
Mr. Henriksen, a personal trainer, was waiting for the chef Todd English at a gym on West 19th Street one recent Friday morning. Mr. English is known for being perpetually in motion. When he can, he likes to set aside an hour or two to freshen the synapses and sinews with a high-velocity exercise gantlet.
''There he is,'' Mr. Henriksen said as Mr. English, in black shorts, pushed his 225-pound frame through the front doors of the gym. ''He's on the phone already.''
Mr. English smiled more with his eyes than his mouth, shook hands, put away his handheld, grabbed a white towel at a turnstile and climbed aboard a treadmill. 
As dance music thumped and the trainer coaxed him around the room, Mr. English went from running in place to lifting weights to jumping rope with barely a break to take in some air. He is 50 years old, though, and before long, he exhaled a sharp gasp and cradled his head in his arms like a wounded, winded boxer. ''It's not as easy as it used to be,'' he said, panting. ''Is there a martini bar around here somewhere?''
If there is, Mr. English probably has a hand in it. Compulsively entrepreneurial, he has helped create so many restaurants over the course of 20 years that it can be difficult to track them all. At last count, Mr. English is an owner or consultant at 23 restaurants across the country and two on cruise ships.
In New York alone, over the last 18 months or so, he has been busy starting the global smorgasbord of the Plaza Food Hall, the Gallic fare at the Ca Va brasserie in Midtown Manhattan's InterContinental Hotel and (with the chef Ian Chalermkittichai) the Asian-American nibbles at the Ember Room in Hell's Kitchen. Last week, he opened CrossBar, a temple of porcine extravagance (among the menu items are roast suckling pig and puffed pigs' ears) in the Limelight Marketplace.
With so many plates spinning, it makes sense that Mr. English might seek sweaty relief in the gym.
But if he seemed to be pouring a surprising level of ferocity into his squats, there were other reasons, too. ''I probably should have hit the punching bag,'' he would later admit.
That morning's New York Post -- on Friday the 13th, of course -- carried a wincingly unflattering Page Six item about Mr. English, and food blogs had been a-snicker for days after Boston magazine published a lacerating ''breakup letter'' with the chef who had once given a drab Beantown food scene a slug of extra-virgin revitalization. ''Basically, things aren't working out the way we'd hoped,'' the anonymous article read. ''You're simply not the chef we fell in love with.''
The scorn has intensified lately, but it is nothing new. From the standpoint of presence and productivity, Mr. English is one of the most successful chefs in the country. From a news media perspective, he is one of the most mocked and hounded, often portrayed as a party-hopping Casanova who has sacrificed his skill at the stove in a compulsive and compromise-ready hustle for brand expansion.
''I don't get it,'' said Jasper White, a Massachusetts chef who characterized Mr. English as ''my little brother.'' ''There's something about Todd that people take as arrogant, for some reason. Is it his look? But he's not arrogant. He's a down-to-earth, sweet man.'' (The Page Six item had said that local chefs were reluctant to sign a letter supporting Mr. English after the scorching from Boston magazine, but Mr. White vigorously denied that. ''All the top names in Boston signed it,'' he said.)
Mr. English's seemingly improvisatory, flirty, phone-juggling, eager-to-please, throw-it-against-a-wall-and-see-if-it-sticks approach to empire building, accompanied by a stubborn welter of lawsuits and a flurry of critical jabs, has led some observers to wonder whether his vast network of restaurants is too diffuse and unfocused.
''From the time I first began tracking Todd, I have noted a yin-yang in his success,'' said Juliette Rossant, who publishes Super Chef, an online magazine. ''He races forward, driven to expand and succeed: that's the bright, attractive side of his personality. On the darker side, he seems indiscriminate in many choices, willing to take nearly any chance, willing to partner with nearly anyone who offers.''
Even some of Mr. English's friends tend to question whether one man can maintain high standards at roughly two dozen restaurants, especially from a distance.
Michael Ginor, a founder of the Hudson Valley Foie Gras company, said he used to tell Mr. English, a longtime pal and confidant, that he would be better off if he would simply focus on turning his pizza-oriented Figs outlets into a national franchise. While Mr. Ginor noted that ''you can't be completely unfocused and accomplish everything he has in life,'' he said that a sense of institutional overload can lead to ''problems and headaches'' for Mr. English. If Mr. Ginor had to pick just one restaurant in which to eat for the rest of his life, it would be the original Olives, he said, but even a supremely skilled chef cannot make sure that 7,000 bowls of tagliatelle are perfect. ''Nobody runs 30 restaurants and does a good job of it,'' he said.
It is worth pointing out, as Mr. English does, that he owns only six of the restaurants that bear his stamp. ''The rest are consulting, licensing deals,'' he said. ''That's how I really do it.'' In those situations, he will hire the chefs and map out the ambience of a restaurant, but there is no expectation of his steady presence.
But does it work? For much of his career, Mr. English has been dogged by suggestions that both in striking deals and in trying to manage all of those problems and headaches, he might be taking on too much.
''He's a rainmaker,'' Mr. Ginor said. ''What you need, then, is somebody to hold a bucket and gather that rain and make sure it fertilizes something. He knows that. He's been struggling with that forever. He's a good friend, and I love the guy dearly. I would love for him to fix whatever it is that needs to be fixed.''
At times, the rapid boil of activity around Mr. English has bubbled over into legal claims. While he does not have as many lawsuits against him as he has restaurants, there is a striking variety of them.
He is being sued by Resolution Pictures, a company based in Pennsylvania that did production work on his PBS show, ''Food Trip With Todd English.'' He is being sued by Dan Klores Communications, a company that did publicity work for him in 2008. He is being sued by Bestall Management, formerly known as Atlantic Talent Management, which was enlisted to assist Mr. English in hatching new restaurant deals.
In each case, and several others past and present, the plaintiffs said that Mr. English owed them money: about $30,000 to Resolution Pictures, $20,000 to Dan Klores Communications, and $100,000 to Bestall Management.
Gabriel Green, a lawyer representing Bestall Management, said that his clients helped Mr. English secure restaurant deals in Seattle, Florida and elsewhere, and were supposed to receive royalties from those enterprises. In a 2003 settlement agreement, Mr. English promised to make payments, but they stopped in 2008. For a while, Mr. English and his team ''just ignored us,'' Mr. Green said.
''My clients harbor no animosity towards him,'' he continued. ''They just want to get paid what is owed. Frankly, they're kind of dumbfounded.''
They are not the only ones who say they are confused. In a few cases, Mr. English's legal engagement has been so minimal that it has resulted in default judgments -- in essence, being ordered to pay up because nobody showed up.
Mr. English took issue with Mr. Green's account. ''Those guys didn't help me one iota,'' he said. ''Every one of those deals I got because of my relationships.'' He said that in both the Bestall case and the Resolution Pictures case, he had paid the parties in question ''hundreds of thousands of dollars'' over a period of time, and that payments had ceased only because of disagreements over how much was owed.
''All these are in negotiations for settlement -- that's what's going to happen,'' Mr. English said. ''I mean, it's not like I'm not going to pay them.''
You might say that the manic drive and the sporadic disarray of Mr. English's career could be traced to his childhood.
Although he made his name in the Northeast, he was born in Amarillo, Tex., and raised largely in Atlanta. He has a surname that suggests bangers and mash, but the main influence on his upbringing was his mother, Patrizia Arcuni-English, whose family came to the United States from Sicily and Calabria. Mr. English's parents parted ways when he was in grade school, and his mother raised him and his sister on her own. Today, Mr. English is disinclined to talk about his father, although he does not deny that growing up without that paternal presence might have given him a propulsive, Bill Clintonesque surplus of ambition. ''You have a little something to prove,'' he said.
He started proving it early. One day, as a boy, Mr. English begged his mother for an old-fashioned ice cream maker -- and catapulted into his future career by whipping up bowls of fresh vanilla ice cream served with Georgia peaches. ''When he was 15, he had a whole vegetable garden,'' Ms. Arcuni-English said. ''He tilled it.'' There were sports, too, and guitar lessons. ''He has to be involved in everything,'' she said. ''He's been like that since he was young.''
Mr. English attended Guilford College in North Carolina and played catcher on the baseball team. ''It was great for my A.D.D.,'' he said. ''Because I'm sure if I was in right field, I'd be spacing out, watching the butterflies go by.'' When injuries forced him to give up the sport, he dropped out of college and wound his way to the Culinary Institute of America and a period of marination in Italy.
It might be hard for his critics to believe this now, but back in 1989, when Mr. English opened his first restaurant, Olives, in Boston's then-scrappy Charlestown neighborhood, it was seen as a beacon of culinary cool.
''The food he was cooking was so unlike anything else in this city at the time,'' said Barbara Lynch, a chef in Boston who got her start in his kitchen. ''Nobody else was doing fig pizza with prosciutto, or a nice, simple olive tart.''
''I was cooking octopus in 1990,'' Mr. English said. ''Nobody was. It was that little joint you couldn't get into. We'd play the music really loud. It was fun.''
In the two decades that followed, there were James Beard awards and a spot on People magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People list. His empire expanded; his first marriage imploded. (In 2009, another marriage was scheduled to happen, but Mr. English backed out hours before the ceremony, which stirred up a tabloid feeding frenzy.)
In 1998, he was part of a power-cluster of chefs and restaurateurs who were invited to bring their cuisine to the Bellagio hotel and casino in Las Vegas. It was the onset of a rapacious strain of franchise fever in the food business, and Mr. English caught it. Pretty soon, he was opening restaurants in hotels, in theme parks, on cruise ships. ''I turn down way more than I say yes to,'' Mr. English said. ''We get approached daily. I wouldn't do them unless I was psyched about them.''
Some soared. Some sank. ''It's like losing a big game,'' he said of the failures. ''You've got to look at what you did wrong and make it better, and not do it that way the next time. But you're out there playing, man. You tried.''
His career has been so radiantly scattershot that we might need an astrophysicist to track down all the supernovas and black holes. The original Olives might qualify as both. After a grease fire, it has been closed for a year, leading to confusion about when, or whether, it will reopen. Mr. English said ''insurance matters and code matters'' had caused the delay, but that the restaurant will be renovated and running again by late summer.
And he said that Kingfish Hall, his restaurant in the Faneuil Hall marketplace in Boston, would go through a similar makeover after business slipped during the recession and the restaurant nearly faced eviction. ''Restaurants have cycles,'' he said. ''We made hard decisions on what to do to keep the business going, and we're still here, still rockin' and rollin'.'' Kingfish, he said, would be repositioned as ''a beer-hall kind of thing.''
Perhaps it is telling that when Miki Naftali, the president and chief executive officer of Elad Properties, began meeting with Mr. English about creating a lively European-style gastro-bacchanal in the Plaza Hotel, he insisted on something rather fundamental. ''In negotiating with Todd, I made it very clear that it's extremely important -- it's part of the deal -- that he would be personally involved,'' Mr. Naftali said. ''And I have to say, he did everything that he promised to do. When he is there, when he is passionate about it, when he is spending the time, he is very good.''
It was in the Plaza Food Hall, after ordering a demolition derby of dishes, crowding a table with sushi, prosciutto-and-fig flatbreads, sliders, lobster rolls, Todd English chocolate bars and cupcakes, that Mr. English finally alluded to the pounding he had been taking in the press.
He said that he is capable of handling everything on his heaping plate and characterized his association with creative chaos as a bit of a myth. ''I'm way under control,'' he said. ''We have so much good stuff, so many good people.''
Nevertheless, it seems as though he dodges the slings and arrows in classic Todd English fashion: just keep moving. ''Unfortunately, when things go wrong, I'm the guy who takes the brunt of it,'' he said. ''I take the bullets. And I'm a big, tough guy. But you know, I get tired of taking those bullets. Today was an example of that. It wasn't fair.
''Look, it's uncalled for. If I were molesting babies, I get it. But I'm not. I'm a guy with a dream trying to make it all happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUSY: The chef Todd English during a workout. He consulted with the actress Eva Longoria, right, on her restaurant, Beso, in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MICHAEL CAULFIELD/WIREIMAGE) (D1)
 DRIVEN: Todd English, right, in the kitchen of CrossBar, his newly opened restaurant inside the Limelight Marketplace in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) CHART: A Widespread Ingredient The chef Todd English has been an owner or a consultant at scores of restaurants. (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (92%); RESTAURANTS (89%); WEIGHTLIFTING (78%); CRUISES (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); MUSIC (53%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (52%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: EVA LONGORIA PARKER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



14 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Elite Colleges and Economic Diversity

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Top Colleges, Largely for the Elite,'' by David Leonhardt (Economic Scene, May 25):
I could not agree more with the claim by Anthony Marx, the departing president of Amherst College, that elite colleges are neither as good nor as meritocratic as they could be.
As a graduate of an elite high school and college (Trinity School in Manhattan and the University of Pennsylvania), I have noticed how many of my peers come from similarly privileged backgrounds. Graduates of top programs churn out tomorrow's leaders, whose children then go on to top schools to become leaders, and the cycle perpetuates. 
We need to figure out a better way to incorporate the lost human talent of low-income students. A good place to start may be by looking at the issue of skyrocketing student loan debt.
KRISTEN SU San Francisco, May 25, 2011
To the Editor:
David Leonhardt lauds Anthony Marx for his ''impressive successes'' in increasing Amherst's economic diversity. As a low-income 2010 graduate, I don't believe that the school has done enough to make me and others like me feel welcome.
At first, Amherst did a great job of wooing me. I was contacted by professors and alumni who assured me that Amherst would be right for me. I was offered terrific financial aid, which diminished in the subsequent years, so I was forced to take out loans.
I loved Amherst, and I can't blame the school for my unemployment and crushing debt. I do believe, however, that Amherst's faculty and staff are unequipped to deal with low-income students -- as evidenced by the many counselors who have suggested that to find a job, I should first do an unpaid internship.
I hope Amherst and other elite colleges expand their focus beyond wooing low-income students. They need to figure out what to do with us once we get there, and how to help us after we leave.
RAPHAELA LEVY-MOORE Shutesbury, Mass., May 26, 2011
To the Editor:
While the efforts by some ''elite'' colleges and universities to attract low-income students are undoubtedly well intentioned, the article does not consider how this trend might affect those schools that are now common options for low-income, high-achieving students: regional state universities.
These institutions, while obviously lacking the resources of, say, Amherst College, typically have a core of extraordinary students in the targeted demographic. Many of these low-income, high-achieving students go on to great success, including graduate and professional study at the ''elite'' schools.
If the elites were to extensively recruit these remaining gems, they would rob the state campuses of many of their greatest success stories. In turn, this would be used as a pretext for further budget cuts to state-funded schools.
Perhaps the best solution may not be to poach ''star students'' from state universities but rather to reduce the economic inequalities that have created the perceived disadvantages. By investing substantially in primary and secondary education and providing greater opportunities to the disadvantaged at a younger age, all colleges and universities (elite privates and state universities included) would profit in equal measure.
DAVID L. WILLIAMS Stevens Point, Wis., May 25, 2011
The writer is an associate professor of philosophy and political science at the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point.
To the Editor:
David Leonhardt forgot about me. I grew up in suburban Pennsylvania and attended private school before Bryn Mawr College, the University of Pennsylvania and now the University of Oxford. And yes, my parents paid for it all.
I realize that not needing to work at 7-Eleven afforded me more time to study, read and learn. But I used it. Acceptance letters don't come because my parents foot the bill; kids like me get in because we are responsible, passionate and talented.
In theory, hard-working, low-income kids deserve help; in practice, their 1,250 SAT scores' counting for more than my 1,300 doesn't reflect meritocracy.
College admissions are a zero-sum game. Universities putting their ''thumb on the scale'' for a South Bronx applicant's 1,250 lessens the weight of my achievements. His 1,250's win is my loss.
JAIMIE ARONA KREMS Philadelphia, May 27, 2011
To the Editor:
David Leonhardt's column about Anthony Marx's accomplishments as president of Amherst was spot on. I have been a supporter and fan of Mr. Marx for years. His tremendous leadership in truly opening up Amherst to low-income students like me, particularly minorities, is a compelling case study in equal access without regard to pedigree or legacy status.
Mr. Marx's efforts follow other admission pioneers at Amherst who believed in looking for talent beyond the classrooms of Exeter, Andover and Choate, including in inner-city community colleges. Amherst changed my life forever. Before I went to Amherst I had never even heard of an M.B.A.; since graduating I have obtained one.
I hope that Amherst will continue to change the lives of other urban and rural poor students of all races after Mr. Marx departs.
J. H. NESBITT London, May 28, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MORGAN ELLIOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); GIFTED EDUCATION (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



15 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Bottom May Be Near For Slide in Housing

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
How low can the market go?
For real estate, some economists say, an end to the seemingly endless decline in housing values might be in sight.
Not immediately. At the moment, prices are still dropping. In 20 large cities, prices fell 0.8 percent in March from the previous month, according to the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller Home Price Indexreleased Tuesday. That pushed the closely watched index below its level of two years ago to a new post-bubble low, and put it 33.1 percent under its July 2006 peak.
Few analysts expect housing prices to rebound anytime soon. But quite a few are predicting that the market is close to the moment when things will stop getting worse, which will be a major improvement all by itself. 
''By far the bulk of the downturn of housing prices is beyond us,'' said Paul Dales of Capital Economics. He expects the market to slip 5 percent further, slightly more than he was expecting a few months ago.
''There are some amazingly favorable signs. Housing is the most undervalued it's been in 35 years,'' Mr. Dales said. ''At some point, it's going to do very well.''
Peter Muoio, senior principal of Maximus Advisors, says he thinks the market has already bottomed, although he expects it to bounce around in a narrow range for a few years rather than recovering. And James F. Smith, chief economist for the investment firm Parsec Financial and a rare housing bull, is predicting a 25 percent climb from here by mid-decade.
''There's a lot of pent-up demand for housing and someday it will be unleashed,'' Mr. Smith said, adding: ''Your guess is as good as mine when it will come.''
The new Case-Shiller data did not offer much room for short-term optimism. The national housing index, which is reported quarterly, fell 4.2 percent in the first quarter after a drop of 3.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. This, too, is a new recession low.
Twelve of the 20 cities in the index hit a post-bubble low in March. Washington, D.C., was the only city where prices rose both in March and over the last year. In a double-digit drop that echoed the worst era of the crash, Minneapolis fell by 10 percent over the year.
''Home prices continue on their downward spiral with no relief in sight,'' David M. Blitzer, the S.& P. Index Committee chairman, said in a statement.
Housing prices are now back to where they were in mid-2002 even before taking inflation into account. Such a decline was unimaginable to the boosters and many of the analysts in the middle of the boom, who were fond of saying that house prices never fell on a national basis. But as credit dried up and the easy refinances disappeared, the foreclosures began. Prices fell sharply in late 2006, 2007 and 2008.
The market turned around in 2009, prompting hopes that the worst was over. A government tax credit proved wildly popular, but the declines resumed after its expiration a year ago.
Some economists think there are still relatively large drops to come. Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, expects a 6 to 8 percent fall during the rest of the year. ''There are a lot of forces pushing prices downward,'' he said.
One of them is the excess number of houses. Builders built too much during the boom, and the mania for second and third homes has sharply diminished. New household formation will soak up the supply, but that will take years.
The financial blog Calculated Risk estimated the excess housing supply this week using 2010 Census data, which it compared to 1990 and 2000. The blog concluded that the excess in April 2010 was about 1.8 million units, but probably several hundred thousand fewer now.
The wild card in all of this is consumer sentiment, otherwise known as confidence. The United States Conference Board reported Tuesday that its consumer confidence index unexpectedly fell to 60.8 in May from a revised 66 in April. Analysts had forecast a one-point rise, but the mood turned hesitant. The May level is the lowest since the fall.
People without confidence in the economy and their own prospects tend to put off major purchases.
''People are still scared,'' Douglas C. Yearley Jr., chief executive of the high-end builder Toll Brothers, said in a recent interview. ''If they look in the paper and see that Robert Shiller says prices have another 20 percent to go, it has to keep them at home.''
Mr. Shiller, one of the developers of the Case-Shiller index and a housing bear, did not respond to requests for his latest forecast, a development that no doubt made Mr. Yearley's day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An open house in March in Portland, Ore. ''There are some amazingly favorable signs. Housing is the most undervalued it's been in 35 years,'' one analyst said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHART: Falling Prices: Home prices in 20 cities have fallen to a new low since their July 2006 peak, according to the S.& P./Case-Shiller index. (Source: S.& P./Case-Shiller) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%) OREGON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



16 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: France Seeks Global Plan To Stabilize Food Prices

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
PARIS -- ''One shock away from a full-fledged crisis.'' That is how the World Bank president, Robert B. Zoellick, described the effects of the recent increase in world food prices.
His remarks, in April, came soon after a United Nations gauge of food prices touched its highest level since its creation in 1990, and as popular uprisings fanned across the Middle East, toppling the longstanding rulers of Tunisia and Egypt and destabilizing a host of other regimes.
Those upheavals, in a region once known as the Fertile Crescent but now dependent on imported grain, were set off in part by concerns about the rising cost of essential foodstuffs, demonstrating to global leaders the extreme effects that food price spikes can have on social, economic and political stability.
Now, France is now using its chairmanship of the Group of 20 leading economies to keep the issue of volatility in commodities, and especially food, at the top of the international agenda. 
The French government has convened the first-ever meeting of G-20 agriculture ministers for June 20 and June 21 in Paris. It hopes to achieve agreement on an action plan that would be sent to G-20 leaders when they meet in the French city of Cannes in November.
The plan would include commitments to stem sudden and excessive fluctuations in agricultural prices; improve security of supplies; bolster transparency of information, especially about stocks; and improve risk management and the regulation of agricultural derivatives.
Since the warnings this spring, there has been a slight letup in price pressure as commodities have slipped from their peaks. On Wednesday, wheat futures for July delivery on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange were at $7.89 a bushel, down 3.7 percent, after an announcement by Russia that it would let a ban on wheat exports expire on July 1.
But over the past 12 months, the wheat price is up around 75 percent after drought and fires led to the Russian export ban last summer, as floods damaged crops in Canada and Australia, and as a particularly dry spring in Western Europe threatens output this year. Few analysts expect a major retrenchment in prices in the months ahead.
Aid agencies have started pushing for more action. In a report released Tuesday, Oxfam International said the global food system was buckling under pressure from climate change, ecological degradation, population growth, rising energy prices, increasing demand for meat and dairy products and intensifying competition for land from biofuels, industry and urbanization.
The charity warned that prices for staple foods including corn and wheat would more than double in two decades unless action were taken. ''The warning signs are clear,'' the report said. ''Surging and unstable international food prices, growing conflicts over water, the increased exposure of vulnerable populations to drought and floods are all symptoms of a crisis that may soon become permanent.''
Oxfam called on governments to seek a fairer and more sustainable food system by investing in agriculture, managing food distribution better and promoting equal rights for women, who produce much of the world's food.
It also called on the private sector to shift away from a model that profits at the expense of poor producers, consumers and the environment. Specifically, it said that three global companies -- Archer Daniels Midland, Bunge and Cargill -- held disproportionate sway over the world grain trade and that their activities were adding to volatility.
Meantime, higher food prices, along with rising energy costs, are affecting economic debate and policy making.
In March, a paper published by the International Monetary Fund concluded that an increase in food prices resulted in less private consumption and greater income inequality, as well as fueling anti-government demonstrations and riots. This year, a number of central banks, among them the European Central Bank, the Bank of Canada and the Reserve Bank of Australia, have raised interest rates, citing inflationary pressure as a factor.
That pressure appears to be taking root. On Tuesday, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said that consumer prices in industrialized countries rose 2.9 percent in the year to April 2011, after growth of 2.7 percent in March. It was the highest rate since October 2008 and was driven by an acceleration in food and energy prices.
In the euro area, inflation eased to an annual rate of 2.7 percent in May from 2.8 percent the month before, the statistics agency Eurostat said. Still, that rate remains well above the E.C.B.'s comfort zone of just below 2 percent.
In the lead-up to the meeting in June, Bruno Le Maire, the French agriculture minister, has visited China, Brazil, Russia and India, and he will head to the United Stares this week.
French officials are guardedly optimistic. ''We sense the glass is half full,'' said an official, who has been working on the draft communique but was not permitted to speak publicly. ''Everybody in the G-20 agrees on the need to improve the system.''
Specifically, France is pushing for the creation of a database on stocks, dubbed the Agricultural Market Information Initiative, that would be managed by the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome. It would track stocks held by countries and shifts in demand, although some countries, like China, have been reluctant to divulge information they deem strategic.
France has also asked international organizations like the World Food Program and the World Bank to draw up plans to establish reserve stocks of food in countries seen as most vulnerable to shortages, and to look at new insurance products to better hedge farmers' risks.
Another area that France and the G-20 finance ministries are examining is the possibility of limiting the scope of positions in agricultural derivatives, standardizing those products and tightening regulation of over-the-counter transactions. But some experts argue that food price volatility is less the result of speculation and more an inevitable side effect of climatic conditions and economic and demographic factors. These experts contend that it may be more useful to mitigate the side effects than to seek to prevent price swings.
''Everybody blames speculation,'' Alexander Sarris, professor of economics at the University of Athens and a former senior official at the United Nations, told a World Bank development conference in Paris on Monday, ''but speculation is a symptom and not a cause of spikes.''
Governments should facilitate the development of a range of tools, he said, to help mitigate the effects of price rises, including better information about and management of stocks, early warning systems based on econometric and meteorological models, and tougher rules negotiated through the World Trade Organization to avoid arbitrary export bans.
Some participants in the conference said that insurance policies already existed that paid farmers immediately after damaging changes in weather, but they contended that more needed to be done to educate the users of such financial products about their benefits.
Others said ''virtual'' food reserves, or financial funds designed to compensate those affected by price surges, could also be introduced, along with drought- and food-resistant seeds.
''Whatever we do, we will have volatility in future,'' said Pierre Jacquet, chief economist at the French Development Agency. ''We need to be open to a range of solutions, and test them.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers inspecting oranges in Brazil. Rising food prices have pushed global inflation higher. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCOS ISSA/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (93%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (87%); DROUGHT (87%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); CORN MARKETS (77%); FUTURES (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (75%); GRAIN MARKETS (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); BIOMASS (72%); WHEAT FARMING (72%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (71%); BIOFUELS (70%); DISASTER RELIEF (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); MEATS (67%); LAND DEGRADATION (67%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (67%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (77%) FRANCE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



17 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Commerce Choice Draws Praise for Background

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Tuesday nominated John E. Bryson for commerce secretary, a choice that drew plaudits from business and environmental groups, reflecting his uncommon career in both worlds. But Senate Republicans threatened to block confirmation of the nominee over a trade dispute.
Mr. Obama's announcement at the White House, with Mr. Bryson and the current commerce secretary, Gary Locke, at his side, capped his search for an executive to add a business outlook to his inner circle. The president said Mr. Bryson's diverse background recommended him to lead the widely varied Commerce Department, and particularly to spur clean energy projects and American exports generally. 
''John is going to be an important part of my economic team, promoting American business and American products across the globe,'' Mr. Obama said. ''By working with companies here at home, and representing America's interests abroad, I'm confident that he's going to help us meet the goal that I set of doubling our nation's exports.''
Mr. Bryson, 67, was chairman and chief executive of a Southern California electric utility conglomerate, Edison International, for nearly two decades until 2008. Previously he was best known as a founder of the Natural Resources Defense Council, one of the nation's leading environmental organizations. His name surfaced after Mr. Obama's election among those under consideration for energy secretary, a job that went to Steven Chu, a Nobel laureate and physicist and another proponent of clean energy.
A Californian, Mr. Bryson is on the boards of old-line corporations like Boeing -- where he served with William M. Daley, now the White House chief of staff -- and Disney, as well as clean-technology startups like Coda Automotive, a maker of electric cars in Santa Monica, Calif., and BrightSource Energy, a solar power company in Oakland. An adviser in Jerry Brown's first stint as California governor in the 1970s, Mr. Bryson was the head of the California Public Utilities Commission and the State Water Resources Control Board.
Groups often at odds with each other were united in praise for Mr. Bryson. Endorsement came not only from the Natural Resources Defense Council, whose president, Frances Beinecke, said Mr. Bryson's career ''underscores the strong linkage between economic and environmental progress,'' but from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers as well.
Jay Timmons, head of the manufacturers group, said in a statement, ''Mr. Bryson has a strong business background and serves on the board of many manufacturing companies, which gives him the advantage of having exposure to the difficult issues manufacturers face in today's global marketplace.''
But before Mr. Bryson can succeed Mr. Locke, who is in line to be ambassador to China now that Jon M. Huntsman Jr. has left for a possible Republican presidential bid, he must win Senate confirmation. And Senate Republicans revived a threat first leveled in March to block any nominee for commerce secretary until Mr. Obama submits pending trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea to Congress for approval of legislation to put them into effect.
The administration had previously announced, with some fanfare, that it would soon send the agreements to Congress, having negotiated changes with the three trading partners in the language initially agreed to in the Bush administration.
But the White House joined Congressional Democrats to say that the trade pacts would not advance unless Republicans, who control the House, help pass an extension of a trade-adjustment assistance program benefiting workers who lose jobs when companies move operations overseas. Republicans oppose the legislation, leaving the trade pacts, the centerpiece of Mr. Obama's export agenda, in limbo.
Mr. Obama did not allude to the confirmation hurdle in his brief remarks introducing Mr. Bryson. But his press secretary, Jay Carney, later repeated the administration's demand for maintaining the aid to displaced workers, and added, ''It would be folly to hold up a nomination so important as the commerce secretary for any reason.''
Separately, Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, the senior Republican on the Environment and Public Works Committee and a leading opponent of environmentalists, issued a statement avowing his determination to defeat Mr. Bryson's nomination given his background.
''It is understandable that President Obama would select John Bryson as his nominee: he is a founder of a radical environmental organization and a member of a United Nations advisory group on climate change,'' Mr. Inhofe said. He especially criticized Mr. Bryson for speaking well of cap-and-trade legislation to reduce carbon emissions, saying it would cost jobs and raise the price of gasoline and energy.
The Edison Electric Institute, the association of major investor-owned electric companies, endorsed Mr. Bryson. Its president, Thomas R. Kuhn, called Mr. Bryson ''a true visionary'' for having been among the first corporate leaders to ''pave the way for electric vehicles.''
Among others Mr. Obama was said to have considered was Eric E. Schmidt, chairman of Google, and Ron Kirk, the president's trade representative. An administration official said Mr. Bryson was recommended to the White House by more than one person outside the White House; Mr. Daley, despite their acquaintance, did not initiate Mr. Bryson's candidacy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, left, and the nominee, John E. Bryson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (71%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (67%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (66%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

COMPANY: EDISON INTERNATIONAL (68%); BOEING CO (54%); BRIGHTSOURCE ENERGY INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%)

TICKER: EIX (NYSE) (68%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (68%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (68%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (68%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS221114 SOLAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%)

PERSON: JOHN E BRYSON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GARY LOCKE (79%); STEVEN CHU (58%); JON HUNTSMAN (57%); JERRY BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



18 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Apple Plans To Unveil Internet Service

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON; Miguel Helft contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Apple said on Tuesday that it would announce new versions of the software that powers its computers and cellphones, as well as a new Internet service that could connect these devices.
The company gave few details about the service, which it calls iCloud, but analysts think it would allow people to gain access to music, photos and videos over the Internet on multiple Apple devices, without needing to sync those devices. An Internet-based version of iTunes with those features has long been expected, and iCloud comes on the heels of deals between Apple and major recording labels that would allow such a service to go forward.
The announcement is to be made next week by Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive, at Apple's annual developers conference in San Francisco. Mr. Jobs has been on medical leave since January, though he made a surprise appearance in March to introduce a new iPad. 
Apple's preview, posted on a company Web site, was unusual because it generally takes pains to keep any announcements or details about new products secret until they are formally unveiled. Some commentators on technology blogs were surprised that Apple was apparently not planning to announce a new version of the iPhone. Traditionally, Apple announces new products on a yearly cycle; the iPhone 4 was introduced in June of last year.
''It feels like the first time in quite a while that there hasn't been any hardware associated with an upcoming Apple announcement,'' said Charles S. Golvin, an analyst with Forrester Research. ''It's all software related.'' Hinting at next week's software could help the company lower expectations of a new mobile phone release, he said.
Mr. Golvin and other analysts say the next version of the iPhone will probably be released in September or October. The next iPhone is expected to use a chip from Qualcomm that will allow it to work on almost any cellular carrier.
In 2007, Apple released MobileMe, its previous effort at so-called cloud computing, which allows people to share contacts, calendars and e-mail among devices. But MobileMe did not work well, and it is considered a rare failure for Apple. MobileMe has also struggled to gain customers because of its high price of $100 a year; competing products from Google are available free.
The new iCloud service is expected to include revamped features of MobileMe but go further by including music -- becoming a so-called cloud-based iTunes.
Apple has signed contracts with Sony Music Entertainment, EMI and the Warner Music Group to license those labels' recordings, but it is still negotiating with the Universal Music Group, the largest of the four major labels, according to a person briefed on the talks who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deals were private.
While Amazon and Google recently released similar cloud music services, Apple's is expected to be superior. Google and Amazon have not obtained rights for their services from labels, so they require users to upload their music collections to the cloud. In contrast, Apple's service is said to scan people's iTunes libraries and then make the songs in them available on any device.
Prices would be critical in any cloud music service.
''The key question here is pricing, with the only sensible model for a cloud-based service from Apple being subscription-based,'' said Mr. Golvin. He also said a cloud-based music service would raise additional questions. ''What is the specific benefit Apple is bringing to customers and how will people listen to their music on an airplane or other non-Internet connected space?''
An Apple cloud-based music service has been anticipated since at least 2009, when Apple bought Lala, a start-up company that allowed users to play music they already owned from the Web. Shortly after the deal closed, Apple shut Lala.
Apple has a billion-dollar data center in North Carolina that it has said will handle services like music. It is expected to discuss this at next week's conference.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); CLOUD COMPUTING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (73%); EXECUTIVES (54%); SICK LEAVE (54%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (61%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); QUALCOMM INC (53%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (51%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (61%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (61%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



19 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
KARZAI GIVES WARNING
TO NATO ON AIRSTRIKES
In one of his sternest warnings yet concerning civilian casualties, President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan said that NATO must stop air attacks on Afghan homes immediately, or face ''unilateral action'' from the Afghan government. PAGE A6
STALEMATE ON GLACIER TALKS 
The slow, uncertain efforts to normalize relations between India and Pakistan apparently made little progress after defense secretaries from both countries failed to deliver a breakthrough on demilitarizing a Himalayan glacier considered the world's highest battlefield. PAGE A6
SYRIAN LEADER'S BID FOR CALM
As nationwide protests in Syria entered their 12th week, President Bashar al-Assad issued a general amnesty, Syrian state media reported. The announcement appeared to be part of a pattern in Syria, where Mr. Assad has issued decrees that address protesters' demands for greater freedom, while his security forces continued to kill and detain those who demonstrate. PAGE A8
ARREST IN RUSSIAN KILLING
The Russian authorities arrested the man they suspect of shooting the journalist Anna Politkovskaya, whose apparent contract killing in 2006 sent a chilling message about the hazards of challenging the powerful in Russia. PAGE A7
END OF YEMEN CEASE-FIRE
A cease-fire between government forces and opposition tribesmen in Sana, the capital, broke down, renewing fears that the country's continuing political stalemate could drag it into civil war. PAGE A8
SEARCHING FOR E. COLI SOURCE
Hamburg, Germany, is the center of a food contamination crisis that broke out nearly three weeks ago. Fifteen people have died and scores of people were in intensive care units, as health officials scramble to find the source of a deadly E.coli outbreak and doctors struggle to keep alive the most vulnerable of the victims. PAGE A12
National
COURT BLOCKS DETAINEE'S SUIT
ON MATERIAL WITNESS LAW
The Supreme Court unanimously ruled that a man detained after the Sept. 11 attacks may not sue John D. Ashcroft, the former attorney general, for asserted misuse of the federal material witness law. The case involved an American citizen who was held under harsh conditions in what the government said was an effort to make sure he would be available to testify at the trial of another man. But the man was never called to testify nor was he charged with a crime. PAGE A17
OBAMA'S COMMERCE CHOICE
President Obama said that his nominee for commerce secretary was John E. Bryson, drawing plaudits from business and environmental groups, a reflection of Mr. Bryson's uncommon career in both worlds. But Senate Republicans threatened to block his confirmation over a trade dispute. PAGE A19
FOCUS ON FATIGUE SYNDROME
In a sharp blow to patients with chronic fatigue syndrome, two new studies published raised serious doubts about earlier reports that the disabling disease is linked to infection with XMRV, a poorly understood retrovirus. PAGE A18
New York
MANAGER DID NOT DISCLOSE
ABUSE COMPLAINT
The supervisor of a housekeeper at the Pierre hotel was suspended after she failed to report to the police the housekeeper's complaint that she was sexually assaulted by a prominent Egyptian businessman, causing a 15-hour delay in the investigation. The suspension came as the Pierre and the Sofitel New York, where a sexual assault involving another international figure was alleged to have occurred, made new commitments to improve safety measures for their workers. PAGE A21
Business
NEW RESCUE PACKAGE
FOR GREECE TAKES SHAPE
A new rescue package for Greece is taking shape, one that would offer billions of euros in new loans in return for accelerated privatization and tougher tax collection measures on the part of the beleaguered Greek government, European officials said. PAGE B1
HOW STATES DISTORT POLICY
A presidential campaign is once again upon us, and Iowa and New Hampshire are again at the center of it all. But this tradition distorts economic policy in several damaging ways. David Leonhardt, Economic Scene. PAGE B1
MORTGAGE CASE SETTLED
A mortgage company has agreed to settle a federal complaint that accused it of discriminating against women on maternity leave. The company will set aside $750,000 to compensate any women who may have been affected, while paying at least one woman $15,000. PAGE B4
Sports
BACK IN COURT, LOCKOUT
COULD GAIN CLARITY
On Friday, the most pivotal hearing of the lockout that has shuttered the National Football League since March 12 will take place in St. Louis, where the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit will hear arguments on the N.F.L.'s request to reverse the injunction that would stop the lockout. The outcome, expected by early July, will strongly influence when, and under what conditions, the N.F.L. will play this season. PAGE B13
Arts
MANLY REFLECTIONS
ON THE ART OF COOKING
Dwight Garner writes that ''Man With a Pan,'' edited by the cartoonist, writer and New Yorker editor John Donohue, is a rangy, toothsome, timely and occasionally wince-inducing collection of essays by kitchen dads, men who do most of the cooking in their families. PAGE C1
Dining
GLUTEN-FREE:
FLAVOR-FREE NO MORE
Gluten-free baked goods have become tastier as demand for them has risen. More Americans -- about 6 percent of the population, according to the Center for Celiac Research at the University of Maryland -- have found that gluten, in wheat, barley and rye, causes health problems. What had been a niche market has become mainstream. PAGE D1
OP-ED
Thomas Friedman PAGE A25
Maureen Dowd PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); WITNESSES (85%); TESTIMONY (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); HOMICIDE (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); TERRORISM (72%); E COLI (72%); LAWYERS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); AMNESTY (69%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); WRITERS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (63%); VIRUSES (63%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); CHRONIC DISEASES (60%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%); JOHN E BRYSON (64%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (78%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); SYRIA (94%); INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



20 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: One Person, One Vote? Not Exactly

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Two economists, Brian Knight and Nathan Schiff, set out a few years ago to determine how much Iowa, New Hampshire and other early-voting states affected presidential nominations.
Mr. Knight and Mr. Schiff analyzed daily polls in other states before and after an early state had held a contest. The polls tended to change immediately after the contest, and the changes tended to last, which suggested that the early states were even more important than many people realized. The economists estimated that an Iowa or New Hampshire voter had the same impact as five Super Tuesday voters put together.
This system, the two men drily noted in a Journal of Political Economy paper, ''represents a deviation from the democratic ideal of 'one person, one vote.' '' 
A presidential campaign is once again upon us, and Iowa and New Hampshire are again at the center of it all. On Thursday, Mitt Romney will announce his candidacy in Stratham, N.H. Last week, Tim Pawlenty opened his campaign in Des Moines. The two states have dominated the nominating process for so long that it's easy to think of their role as natural.
But it is not natural. It's undemocratic, in fact. It is unfair to voters in the other 48 states. And it distorts economic policy in several damaging ways.
Most obviously, the federal government has lavished subsidies on ethanol, even though those subsidies drive up food prices and do little to solve the climate problem, partly because candidates pander to the Iowa corn industry. (Mr. Pawlenty, who now says the subsidies must end, is an admirable exception.) Beyond ethanol, a recent peer-reviewed study found that early-voting states received more federal dollars after a competitive election -- so long as they supported the winning candidate.
Pork is hardly the only problem with the voting calendar. In the long run-up to the first votes, Iowa and New Hampshire also distort the national conversation because they are so unrepresentative. They are not better or worse than other states, to be clear. But they are different.
Their populations are growing more slowly than the rest of the country's. Residents of Iowa and New Hampshire are more likely to have health insurance. They are older than average. They are more likely to work in manufacturing.
Above all, Iowa and New Hampshire lack a single big city, at a time when large metropolitan areas are crucial to lifting economic growth. Big metro areas are where big ideas most often take shape and great new companies are most often born. The country's 25 largest areas are responsible for 52 percent of the country's economic output, according to the Brookings Institution, and are home to 42 percent of the population.
Yet metro areas are also struggling with major problems. The quality of schools is spotty. Commutes last longer than ever. Roads, bridges, tunnels and transit systems are aging.
You don't hear much about these issues in the first year of a presidential campaign, though. No wonder. Iowa, New Hampshire and the next two states to vote, Nevada and South Carolina, do not have a single city among the country's 25 largest. Las Vegas, the 30th-largest metro area, and the Boston suburbs that stretch into New Hampshire are the closest these states come.
So the presidential calendar becomes another cause of what Edward Glaeser, a conservative-leaning Harvard economist, calls our ''anti-urban policy bias.'' Suburbs and rural areas receive vastly more per-person federal largess than cities. One big reason, of course, is the structure of the Senate: the 12 million residents of Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina have eight United States senators among them, while the 81 million residents of California, New York and Texas have only six.
Bruce Katz, a Brookings vice president and veteran of Democratic administrations, points out that the world's other economic powers take their cities more seriously. China, in particular, has made urban planning a central part of its economic strategy.
''The United States stands apart as an anti-urban nation in an urbanizing world,'' Mr. Katz told me. ''Our political tilt toward small states and small towns, in presidential campaigns and the governing that follows, is not only a quaint relic of an earlier era but a dangerous distraction at a time when national prosperity depends on urban prosperity.''
The typical defense from Iowa and New Hampshire is that they care more about politics than the rest of us and therefore do a better job vetting candidates. But the intense 2008 race between Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton showed that if Iowa and New Hampshire care more, it's only because of their privileged status. In 2008, turnout soared in states that finally had a primary that mattered, be it Indiana or Texas, North Carolina or Rhode Island.
A more democratic system would allow more voters to see the candidates up close for months at a time. The early states could rotate each year, so that all kinds -- big states and small, younger and older, rural and urban -- had a turn. In 2016, the first wave could include states that have voted near the end recently, like Indiana, North Carolina, Oregon and South Dakota.
A rotation along these lines would enliven the political debate. Investments in science and education, which are the lifeblood of future economic growth, might play a bigger role in the campaign. You could even imagine -- optimistically, I know -- that the deficit might prove easier to address if Medicare and Social Security recipients did not make up such a disproportionate share of early voters.
The issues particular to small-town America would still receive extra attention because so many of the 50 states are rural and sparsely populated. It's just that Iowa and New Hampshire would no longer receive the extreme special treatment they now do.
And that special treatment is a nice thing, indeed. It focuses the entire country, and its next leader, on the concerns of only 1 percent of the population, as if democracy were supposed to work that way.
At a recent candidates' forum in Des Moines, The Wall Street Journal reported, the moderator did something that seemed perfectly normal: She chided Mr. Romney for not having spent enough time in Iowa lately. ''Where have you been?'' she asked.
How do you think the rest of us feel?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A voting precinct in Hobbs, Ind., in 2008. A competitive primary lifted turnout in Indiana and other late-voting states. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF HAYNES/REUTERS) (B5) MAP: Where a Primary Vote Counts More: A recently published study estimated the relative influence of voters in different states during the presidential nomination process. A voter in the initial states has eight times the impact of a late voter. (Source: Brian Knight, Brown University) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CITY LIFE (84%); CITIES (84%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (75%); ALCOHOLS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); POPULATION GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); FOOD PRICES (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); TIM PAWLENTY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



21 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: PRESSING OBAMA, HOUSE BARS RISE FOR DEBT CEILING

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Jennifer Steinhauer and Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House on Tuesday overwhelmingly rejected a measure to increase the government's debt limit, acting on a vote staged by Republican leaders to pressure President Obama to agree to deep spending cuts.
Republicans brought up the measure, which was defeated 318 to 97, to show the lack of support in the House for raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling without concrete steps to rein in chronic budget deficits.
The preordained outcome followed several acts of odd political theater on the House floor: Republicans urged the defeat of their own measure, while Democrats -- who not long ago were seeking just such a vote to raise the debt ceiling without attaching spending cuts -- assailed Republicans for bringing it up, saying its certain defeat might unnerve the financial markets.
Just in case, Republican leaders scheduled the vote for after the stock market's close, and in the preceding days called Wall Street executives to assure them that the vote was just for show, to show Mr. Obama that he would have to make concessions in budget negotiations if a debt-limit increase is to pass Congress. 
''This vote, based on legislation I've introduced, will and must fail,'' said Representative Dave Camp, Republican of Michigan and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.
Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the senior Democrat on the Budget Committee, objected. ''This is a political stunt,'' he said.
Voting against the measure were 236 Republicans and 82 Democrats. No Republicans voted in favor.
The showdown over the issue is likely to continue well into the summer, with consequences for both parties and, potentially, for the economy and Wall Street, where the bond market in particular is watching the partisan standoff closely. Yet for all the talk of crisis should Congress fail to raise the debt ceiling by Aug. 2, when the Treasury Department says it will run out of room to meet all the government's obligations without further borrowing, the financial markets are likely to yawn at Tuesday's proceedings.
''Wall Street is in on the joke,'' said R. Bruce Josten, executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
But beyond this week, Wall Street has reason to be nervous as the issue plays out, said people in both parties and in finance.
Investors have grown accustomed to partisan games of chicken that always end with the needed increase in the government's borrowing authority. But this showdown, many say, is riskier because of the strongly held antispending, antitax views of the many freshman House Republicans combined with the fragility of the economic recovery.
''The people who are more politically savvy realize this may not be the normal brinkmanship,'' said Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia. Nor, he added, is this standoff like the fight a few months ago over the current year's spending, which ended with a late-night deal shortly before the government would have shut down.
''The thing that people are missing is that in shutting down the government you can go to the 11th-and-a-half hour, and the consequences of not doing it, while significant, are not economy-threatening,'' Mr. Warner said. ''You can't go to the 11th-and-a-half hour on the debt limit. You don't know what's going to spook the bond markets.''
The chief wild card is the House Republican majority, which was elected last November after a campaign defined by voters' antipathy toward budget deficits. More numerous than the insurgents elected in the conservative waves of 1980 and 1994, many freshman Republicans have no experience in public office and consider themselves citizen-legislators who entered government to shrink it, regardless of the political costs.
''The people who have been sent to Washington most recently are bringing a strong message from the Republicans more to the right that really want something done about government spending,'' said Joseph E. Kasputys, founder of IHS Global Insight and an official in the Nixon and Ford administrations.
Many House Republicans have said publicly that they either do not believe the government will default or that they do not fear it. Many embrace a proposal by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, a first-year Republican from Pennsylvania, for the Treasury to pay bondholders with incoming tax revenues and delay other government payments pending a resolution. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and many on Wall Street call the idea unworkable.
Many Republicans have also made comments indicating that they do not understand or do not care that an increase in the debt limit is needed not only for new spending but also to cover Social Security checks, military pay and myriad other obligations previously agreed to, as well as for payments to creditors holding Treasury bonds.
Another difference from recent decades, when the parties several times agreed to bipartisan budget-cutting deals to raise the debt limit, is the scale of spending cuts that Republicans are demanding as the price of support -- up to $2 trillion in savings over a decade.
For Republicans and Democrats to agree this summer on such a far-reaching deficit reduction plan is a hurdle that is all the higher given how far apart the parties are. Republicans oppose any new taxes while Democrats say a balanced package must include higher revenues.
Just as the political dynamic is more precarious than in years past, so too, say some analysts, is the economic recovery. The combination ''definitely makes it more dangerous'' to even flirt with default, said Rick Rieder, a managing director of BlackRock, the world's largest investment management firm.
''The practical ramifications of it are dramatic, and I truly believe this,'' Mr. Rieder said. At some point short of actual default, he said, ''you're going to run down the road where the rating agencies are going to have to react, the Fed is going to have to make a set of decisions, international investors are going to have to interpret what this means, and you could functionally have a self-fulfilling prophecy in terms of the risk while not actually having a default.''
''That is such a dangerous path to go down,'' he said.
Not everyone believes an impasse would necessarily provoke economic damage. But much of the business community is concerned. ''Am I the only one who remembers the split screen on TARP?'' asked Mr. Josten.
He is not. Worriers from Washington to Wall Street increasingly recall how, amid the financial crisis of September 2008, House Republicans voted by a two-to-one ratio against the proposed Troubled Asset Relief Program, better known as the bank bailout. Cable networks split screens, showing stock markets going down simultaneously with the House vote; the Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 777 points, its largest single-day point drop.
Within days Congress approved a revised bailout and President George W. Bush signed it into law.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chris Van Hollen of Maryland criticized ''a political stunt.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM B. PLOWMAN/NBC)
 Dave Camp of Michigan said a vote ''will and must fail.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); THEATER (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BOND MARKETS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%); MARK WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



22 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Rutgers President Will Step Down in 2012 but Stay on Campus to Teach

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO; Noah Rosenberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Richard L. McCormick, a self-described ''faculty brat'' at Rutgers University who learned to swim at a campus pool on College Avenue in New Brunswick, N.J., and grew up to become the university president, announced on Tuesday that he would step down from that post at the end of next year to return to teaching -- at Rutgers, of course -- and writing.
''I used to be a scholar of American political history, and I fancy I can do that again,'' he said at a news conference. 
Dr. McCormick, 63, who still recalls tagging along to campus events with his mother, an administrator, and his father, a history professor and dean, taught at Rutgers for 16 years before leaving to become provost of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and then president of the University of Washington in Seattle. Since returning to Rutgers as president in 2002, he has engineered a historic reorganization of the university, increased fund-raising and overseen new building projects and academic programs -- all during a period of painful state budget cuts.
Before he departs the presidency, Dr. McCormick said Tuesday, he plans to push ahead on the $1 billion fund-raising campaign announced last year, to work to get a bond issue to finance construction of new academic buildings and maintenance on existing ones and to move forward on a proposal to make Robert Wood Johnson Medical School part of Rutgers.
''I'm not leaving yet, and I set forth a fairly ambitious agenda for the year ahead,'' he said in an interview.
Greg Trevor, a Rutgers spokesman, said the university would ''move quickly'' to find a replacement.
People inside and outside the university credited Dr. McCormick with guiding Rutgers during a time of enormous fiscal pressures. New Jersey's largest and most prestigious public university, Rutgers now receives an annual appropriation of about $400 million from the state -- the same amount as in 1994, when it had 12,000 fewer students. The university anticipates 58,000 students in the fall.
''The challenges facing presidents of public institutions these days are pretty significant, and Richard McCormick rose to be that dynamic leader necessary in these tough economic times,'' said Pamela Lampitt, a state assemblywoman who heads the Legislature's Higher Education Committee. ''He believes in Rutgers and what a great education can do for people.''
Dr. McCormick's tenure was not without controversy. The athletic department, and in particular, the football program, was criticized for lavish salaries and shaky management. In 2008, a review committee that Dr. McCormick appointed accused him of being ''too passive in exercising his authority'' over athletics. Weeks later, he asked the athletic director to resign.
''Rutgers athletics grew very quickly and successfully, but without putting in place all the checks and balances and openness in decision-making that it should have had,'' he said in the interview on Tuesday. ''And we fixed those things.''
As football was growing, the administration demoted six other teams to club status, including men's tennis, men's and women's fencing, and men's swimming and diving. ''We can't afford to run 30 intercollegiate sports,'' he said. ''Maybe Harvard and Stanford can, but we can't, so I had to make some hard decisions.''
In just the past year, he has coped with a student sit-in that lasted 36 hours and the suicide of Tyler Clementi, the freshman whose roommate is accused of using a webcam to secretly watch and stream video from another dorm room of Mr. Clementi's intimate encounter with a man. ''There have been headlines I'd rather not have been written,'' Dr. McCormick said.
Perhaps his greatest legacy will be the consolidation of an unwieldy collection of colleges that, in Dr. McCormick's view, short-changed students. He abolished individual colleges, including Rutgers, Livingston and Douglass, establishing in their stead the School of Arts and Sciences, with uniform admissions standards and academic requirements.
Considerable resistance came from alumnae and students of Douglass College, one of the oldest women's schools in the United States. But the administration devised a compromise, allowing students to live in single-sex dormitories and pursue women's studies in the newly named Douglass Residential College, which is more of a physical campus than an academic institution.
''Rutgers was cobbled together with different institutions in different places -- Camden, Newark, New Brunswick -- and so every president has faced the challenge of bringing this university together,'' Dr. McCormick said. ''We now have a unified School of Arts and Sciences and got away from a system in which there were all kinds of constraints on students -- if you live here, you can't study this. It was a system of gotchas.''
But money troubles hampered his leadership. A history professor who spoke on the condition of anonymity on Tuesday, saying she did not want to alienate Dr. McCormick because he would be returning to her department full time, said that relations between the president and the faculty had become strained over the years.
''When he came in, there was a lot of optimism: it was like, 'Jersey guy comes back to lead the university to glory,' '' she said. ''But every time we turn around, someone is saying, 'Do more with less.' He did not cause that, but that's the climate he experienced here.''
Dr. McCormick acknowledged those fiscal realities in his announcement. ''Across the nation, the handwriting is on the wall, and whether you like it or not, state support for higher education has been on a two-decade-long decline,'' he said. ''I and every president wish we could reverse that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard L. McCormick, speaking on Tuesday in New Brunswick, N.J., returned to Rutgers University in 2002 as its president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HISTORY (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BUDGETS (71%); BONDS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



23 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Year-End Roundup | Science, Health, Technology and Math

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Our lessons are on summer vacation, but here's a look back at STEM-related lessons from the 2010-11 school year.

 BODY:
The school year is drawing to a close, and our lesson plans have already gone on summer vacation. So this week we're looking back at the 2010-11 school year and collecting the year's teaching materials by subject matter. Below are the lesson plans we ran this year in science, health, technology and math.
Check back on Thursday for language arts, literature, journalism and fine arts and see Tuesday's post for social studies, American history and civics, global history, economics and geography. (Even if those aren't your primary subject areas, you may want to take a look at those collections, as many of our lesson plans are cross-curricular or can be adapted easily for other subjects.)
We hope our resources have been useful to you this year, and as always, we welcome your stories and feedback. Did you use our materials, and if so, how did it go? Do you have suggestions for us? Please share your experiences and thoughts in the comment box below.
Numerous major news events this year relate to topics in standard science curriculum, like the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the devastating tornadoes in the South and Midwest. From breaking news events to scientific breakthroughs, The Times continues to cover science-related news energetically, which gave us many opportunities this year to create lesson plans and activity suggestions for science, technology, health and math classrooms.Science and TechnologyGeneral: Ideas in Motion: Illustrating Basic Science Concepts What's Next: Updating Science Textbooks With New Discoveries One Year Later: Studying Post-Earthquake Haiti Sputnik Redux: Creating Science Fair ProjectsLife Sciences and the Brain: Nature's Invaders: Exploring the Effects of Invasive Species on Local Ecosystems The Science of Conception: Studying Fertility and I.V.F. On the Road: Analyzing Citizen Science Reports on Roadkill Biology in Film: Using Animation to Study Cell Structure Got Game? Learning With Puzzles The Pros and Cons of Genetic Data: Debating Personal DNA Testing All Smiles: Studying the Science of Smiling and Related Behaviors Fighting Disease: Researching the History and Biology of Vaccines Will It Happen Again? Examining Mass Extinctions on Earth On the Fly: Studying Bird Migration and Behavior Endangered Species Ecotourism: Developing Citizen Science Travel ItinerariesChemistry, Physical Science and Engineering: How Clean Is Clean? Testing Detergents and Analyzing Product Claims How Green Is My School? Conducting an Energy Audit At Risk? Investigating Dams Crisis in Japan: Understanding Nuclear Energy and Reactors 30 Years of the Space Shuttle: A Fact Scavenger Hunt Inside Twisters: Creating Scientific News Reports on Tornadoes Welcome to the Machines: Designing Useful RobotsHealth Organic, Slow or Local: Exploring Food-Based Communities Cook, Eat Love? Learning to Prepare Nutritious Meals No Rest for the Weary? Analyzing Sleep Habits The Buzz About the Buzz: Learning How Caffeine Affects the Body Raising Awareness: Developing Social Media Campaigns About H.I.V. and AIDS The Fountain of Youth? Examining Factors That Contribute to Longevity Mind and Body: Investigating the Health and Science of MeditationMathematicsMath: 12 Ways to Use The Times to Develop Math Literacy Who's No. 1? Investigating the Mathematics of Rankings No Taxation Without Calculation: Filling Out Tax Returns By the Billions: Creating and Comparing Population Growth ProjectionsMath-oriented: Predicting the Vote: Analyzing Election Data A Big Task: Attempting to Solve the National Deficit Connecting the Dots: Interpreting U.S. Census DataTeaching TopicsWe added the following to our Teaching Topics collection this year: Teaching With and About Technology 12 Years of Lesson Plans About the Animal Kingdom Teaching and Learning About Hurricanes The Gulf Oil Spill in the Classroom Teaching and Learning About Energy With The New York Times 100 Ways to Celebrate the 100th Day of School With The New York Times Three Teachers Answer Your Questions on MicrobloggingWe also started two new features, both of which include STEM-related teaching materials: Great Ideas From Readers, which features projects and activities that use The New York Times sent in by teachers and so far includes creative teaching ideas on science literacy and the study of clouds, the guinea worm problem in Africa and DNA. Test Yourself, which includes twice-weekly math questions for brushing up on skills and preparing for standardized tests.Please continue to check in with us over the summer and as you start your curriculum planning for the fall. As always, thank you for teaching with The New York Times.

        
Year-End Roundup | Social Studies, History, Geography and Civics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); ANIMATION (78%); CURRICULA (78%); ECOTOURISM (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); GEOGRAPHY (76%); DNA (76%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); HISTORY (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); TSUNAMIS (66%); GENETIC SCREENING (66%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (65%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (65%); VACCINES (64%); BIRDS (63%); DNA TESTING (62%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%) roundup; Current Events; Health; Lesson Plans; Mathematics; Science; Teaching with The New York Times; Technology

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



24 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Smog Hinders Hong Kong's Hiring Efforts

BYLINE: BETTINA WASSENER


HIGHLIGHT: In a survey, three of four companies said that the city's air quality was making it harder for them to attract and retain employees from abroad.

 BODY:
Hong Kong prides itself on its status as Asia's leading financial center, home to tens of thousands of bankers. More money was raised in stock market debuts there last year than on any other stock exchange, including New York's.
The city's air quality, however, is badly lagging, with some estimates putting pollution at three times the level in New York. With some blowing in from mainland China and some generated by the woefully out-of-date engines powering many Hong Kong trucks and buses, smog regularly exceeds levels recommended by the World Health Organization.
A survey of more than 200 international and local companies operating in Hong Kong, released on Tuesday by the office-space provider Regus, suggests that the problem is negatively affecting businesses. Three of four companies said that the city's air quality was making it harder for them to attract and retain employees from abroad.
''Hong Kong's position as the premier destination in Asia for top expatriate managers is under threat due to poor air quality,'' Regus said.Respondents ranked Hong Kong above Bangkok, Shanghai and Beijing in terms of air quality, which is not surprising, given the choking pollution in those cities. But Singapore was deemed far better. That should give policymakers pause, given that Singapore is Hong Kong's chief rival for the Asian finance crown.
To be sure, we're not talking about a mass exodus of workers as a result of air pollution. The Hong Kong economy is buzzing, business confidence is high and consumers are spending. In fact, high rents and property prices, rising wages and a shortage of suitable staff members in some sectors are among the things that companies here complain about most.
Still, the air quality issue is gaining ever more prominence. As I have noted here before, doctors and scientists have warned repeatedly that the city's pollution are a threat to public health, associated with hundreds of deaths a year.

        
On the Block: Two Fiberglass Lungs
        
Severe Smog Linked to Deaths in Hong Kong
        
Q&A: Hong Kong's Air-Pollution Problem
        
Ozone Alerts in a Wyoming Valley
        
On Our Radar: Russia's Heat Wave

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMOG (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WEATHER (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%) Air Pollution; finance; Hong Kong; Regus; Smog; survey; Economic Conditions and Trends; World Health Organization; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Singapore; Business

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (91%) World Health Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Hong Kong; Singapore

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



25 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: The Afghan Debate: Should They Stay or Should They Go?

BYLINE: SHARIFULLAH SAHAK


HIGHLIGHT: As the United States and NATO forces plan to begin withdrawing from the country this summer, there seems to be little else on people's minds.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan - A woman I know asked me recently: "Is it true that the Americans are leaving Afghanistan?"
"Yes," I replied. "They are leaving, beginning in July of this year."
Her eyes filled with tears. Weeping, she said, "I'm afraid. Again we will be forced to leave our country and seek refuge in Pakistan."
As an employee of a foreign news organization, I find myself in these kinds of conversations all the time. Friends, relatives and acquaintances are always eager to learn the latest news, and expect me to be able to sift fact from fiction. It may be many more years before we see all the troops leave. But as the United States and NATO forces begin withdrawing from the country this summer, there seems to be little else on people's minds.Their views are complicated and mixed. Some worry that when foreign troops leave Afghanistan, our people will face the same adversity as we did when the Russians left, when the country collapsed into civil war. Others, after 10 years of occupation, are simply weary of the foreign troops and even more weary of the corruption they see in our government.
At a party recently, a debate broke out just as chai, the sweet tea we drink here on any occasion, was about to be served. One friend, a 45-year-old man, announced that he was happy to hear about "foreign troops dying."
A woman, another friend, snapped back: "They are also human and they sacrifice themselves for our safety. They spend their money on our country. Look at the difference from the time of the Taliban and now."
The man came back with a speech we have heard from him many times.
"The Taliban were much better than the current government," he said. "There was no bribery, no theft, no adultery. You could put your all property on the road no one dare to steal it but now even the government officials are thieves."
An argument erupted, some on the man's side, some on the woman's, until finally the man stood up and stomped toward the door. "Your son works with foreigners," he said. "That's why you defend them."
"Calm down, we're just having a conversation," we said to him. But it was too late. He had left. This is how discussions about this sometimes go here. People have strong opinions on both sides.

        
New Data on High Unemployment Among Recent Veterans
        
A Marine's Mom Writes
        
A Rumor From the Roundabout
        
A 'Military Covenant' for America
        
Desk Guilt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); CORRUPTION (66%); BRIBERY (66%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan War (2001- ); News and News Media; United States Defense and Military Forces; Taliban; Kabul (Afghanistan); Af-Pak

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%) Taliban

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (92%) Afghanistan; Kabul (Afghanistan)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



26 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Listing Gun Owners Might Help Criminals

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: The economics of crime suggest that making lists of registered gun owners public would help criminals, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago.
Gov. Pat Quinn of Illinois is considering signing a bill that would prohibit state officials from publicizing lists of registered gun owners. The economics of crime suggests that such a list would put potential victims at a disadvantage and help criminals.
Earlier this year, the state attorney general, Lisa Madigan, asked the Illinois State Police to make public its list of registered gun owners. Proponents of Ms. Madigan's request say the Freedom of Information Act requires the state to release such information when requested.
The police are concerned that a public list would discourage some gun owners from legally registering their weapon, and, as a result, the owner database would be less accurate precisely because it was public. A more accurate list, the police say, helps them protect officers and facilitates law enforcement.
(Disclosure: I am a resident of Illinois and, for the reasons discussed in this post, I do not disclose whether I own a gun.)
Economists know that information affects criminal activity - that crime is reduced when criminals see a greater likelihood that they will be caught or that they would face a stiffer penalty when convicted. As in other areas of activity, studies show that criminal behavior is, on average, sensitive to the costs and benefits of committing a crime.Potential victims recognize this sensitivity and take steps to protect themselves. Sometimes they install locks and alarms, knowing that criminals may get through them but would rather spend their effort on another victim who is less well protected.
Just as most criminals would rather avoid locks and alarms, many of them would rather commit their crime without being shot by a victim brandishing a firearm. Without access to a gun-owner database, criminals in Illinois may expect that any victim might use a firearm for defense.
Making the list public would also permit criminals to select victims who do not appear on the gun-owner list, to lower the odds that their victim has a firearm for self-defense.
Some criminals intend to steal guns. A public gun-owner list would help them, too. Either way, the public gun-owner list gives criminals choices -- to choose a gun owner or a nonowner, whichever better serves their purpose.
This is not to say that all criminals are sensitive to costs and benefits. Certainly some would not consult the gun-owner list. But as long as some do, a public gun-owner list would put those who do not own guns at risk. (To the best of my knowledge, no empirical study of the gun-owner list question has been conducted.)
Although some gun owners might refrain from registering their guns to keep their ownership private, other people might consider purchasing and registering their first firearm to avoid being known as someone who could not protect himself with a gun.
In this way, a public owner list could increase the number of households owning guns and thereby increase the number of accidents and other undesirable outcomes associated with gun ownership.
When it comes to Illinois's gun-owner database, both gun owners and nonowners can benefit from privacy.

        
Financial Lobbying and the Housing Crisis 
        
Digging Deeper Into What Caused Job Losses
        
Where the Jobs Were Lost
        
New Keynesian Economics Misses the Point, for Now
        
Who Cares About Inflation?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GUN CONTROL (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (56%) Casey B. Mulligan; crime; Daily Economist; Freedom of Information; gun control; Crime and Criminals; Firearms; Illinois

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (73%); LISA MADIGAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Illinois

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



27 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Whispers, Giggles, and Epicycles

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The problem with premature triumphalism. 

 BODY:
Gavyn Davies marvels at the sight of Robert Lucas clutching at straws, trying to explain the current slump with highly implausible stories about incentive effects of policy changes that haven't happened:
As yet, there has been no increase in taxation, on the rich or anyone else. Nor have the Obama administration's medical and financial sector reforms really taken effect. It would take a remarkably far sighted private sector to have already reacted adversely to this set of long term reforms, even if they might do so eventually.
There is of course another possible reason why the US (and UK) economies might not be converging on their long term GDP growth trends at present, and that is that there is insufficient growth in aggregate demand to fuel a "normal" recovery in output. The sluggish growth in US and UK GDP in the past couple of quarters has raised the likelihood that this is re-emerging as a core problem for the global economy. If so, it would raise further difficult questions about whether fiscal and central bank balance sheets are in any fit state to address this problem by easing policy further.
Yet a shortage of demand is not mentioned, even as a remote possibility, by Prof Lucas. 
What Davies doesn't say is that there's a good reason Lucas won't even consider the obvious explanation in terms of a shortfall in demand. More than 30 years ago, in a burst of radically premature triumphalism, Lucas and his colleagues declared the "Death of Keynesian economics". As cited by Greg Mankiw (pdf), Lucas wrote that Keynesian theorizing was so passe that people would giggle and whisper if it came up in seminars.
Since then, as is obvious to everyone but the hermetic inhabitants of the freshwater world, the attempt to explain business cycles in terms of rational expectations and frictionless markets has failed; and Keynesian economics continues to be very useful. But to concede that, to even consider the possibility that we're in a demand-shortfall slump of the kind Keynes diagnosed, would be an incredible comedown for Lucas.
So he can't and won't consider the possibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



28 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: The Strength of a Failing Euro (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Not really a paradox. 

 BODY:
I've gotten a lot of requests -- some genuinely curious, some belligerent -- about how one can reconcile grim views about the prospects of the eurozone with the strength of the euro against the dollar.
There really isn't any contradiction -- but to see why, we need to think a bit about what determines exchange rates.
For rough-and-ready exchange-rate modeling, I and many others turn to some version of the "anchor model". This posits that there's a long-run equilibrium exchange rate that investors believe is appropriate, which is determined by trade flows, purchasing power parity, etc.. In the short run, however, the exchange rate can vary from this long-run equilibrium rate, with the deviation reflecting interest rate differentials. Suppose US interest rates are low compared with eurozone rates; then the dollar will fall relative to the euro until it is far enough below its long-run value that people expect it to rise in future at a rate that provides capital gains offsetting the interest differential.
Cognoscenti will recognize this is the essential logic behind Rudi Dornbusch's classic overshooting analysis (pdf). Super-cognoscenti will know that we really should have an intertemporal framework that includes any effects of short-run developments on the long run. Super-duper cognoscenti know that in practice this won't make much difference, so the anchor model is pretty good.
But how does this model work if the currency in question is jointly owned by several countries, and some of those countries are in dire straits and might be forced out of the monetary union?
My answer is that you should think of the euro-dollar exchange rate as if it were an exchange rate between the solid euro core -- Germany, France, and a few others -- and the United States. Here the anchor model applies. And the euro is strong because German real interest rates are higher than US rates: the nominal 10-year rates are about the same, but the ECB is expected to be more hawkish on inflation than the Fed.
So what about the European periphery? Well, those are economies in big trouble -- but they also offer very high interest rates. And more to the point, the relevant arbitrage in the foreign exchange market is between bunds and Treasuries; if the euro zone does splinter, the question is what the value of the remaining core will be, and it's presumably quite high.
The only situation in which you would expect the troubles of Greece et al to mean a weak euro would be if you expected the ECB to help resolve the problems by pursuing an inflationary policy. There's actually a pretty good case for doing that -- but the Germans would never allow it.
So the euro is strong even as the euro system, the euro as a project, turns into a train wreck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (91%); EURO (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (67%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



29 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: 1937 in 2011?

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Sounds plausible. 

 BODY:
Gauti Eggertsson has a nice piece on the New York Fed blog about the great monetary/fiscal mistake of 1937, which sent the Great Depression into a second downward leg. As he notes, the underlying situation bore a significant resemblance to current events: unemployment still high (actually under 10 percent if measured by modern standards, so quite similar to now), but with rising prices thanks to commodity shocks.
Where I part with Gauti here is his assertion that modern economists won't make the same mistake. The research staff at the NY Fed won't; but the ECB very probably will, and the Board of Governors is under a lot of political pressure to raise rates.
We've learned a lot less these past 74 years than you might have imagined -- or rather, we learned some stuff, but have spent the last few decades unlearning it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



30 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: I.P.O. Talk, Demos At Tech Confab

BYLINE: MIGUEL HELFT


HIGHLIGHT: A tech confab is filled with talk of IPOs and demos ranging from the high-tech to the decidedly low-tech. 

 BODY:
RANCHO PALOS VERDES, Calif. -- The technology elite gathered for the annual AllThingsD conference here to discuss everything from the mood in Silicon Valley, to the latest technology gadgets and services. Here are a few highlights.
Zynga no-showMark Pincus, the chief executive of Zynga, was scheduled to speak at the conference. But Mr. Pincus told conference hosts Kara Swisher and Walt Mossberg last week that he couldn't make it. Mr. Pincus didn't give "any reason whatsoever" for his absence, the hosts said. That, of course, got people talking. And on the conference floor, what I heard most often is that Mr. Pincus didn't show because Zynga is about to file for a public offering.
Zynga has declined to comment about its plans for an I.P.O. plans, but people briefed on the company's plans have said that it may file as soon as this month.
I.P.O.s everywhere or nowhere?On the heels of the LinkedIn public offering, the parade of hot Internet companies presenting at the D9 conference were asked about their I.P.O. plans. Dick Costolo, the chief executive of Twitter, would not comment, despite persistent questions about it. Andrew Mason, the chief executive of Groupon, declined to answer. Next, Jack Dorsey gave what was probably the best answer to the I.P.O. question. "Which one?" Mr. Dorsey is chief executive of Square, the hot mobile payments startup, and he is also chairman and head of product at Twitter. Of course, he also declined to comment on any specific I.P.O. plans.
The public offerings of Groupon, Zynga and others are coming and are certain to fuel more talk of a bubble. In the meantime, LinkedIn closed at $77.45, down 5 percent on Wednesday. Shares are down 37 percent from their peak of $122.70, and below the opening price of $83 on May 19, its first day of trading.
Groupon zingersThe audience consensus was that Mr. Mason gave the best interview, explaining his company's business and answering questions with poise and humor. When asked why he didn't sell Groupon to Google, which last year offered about $6 billion for the company, he answered with an expressionless stare (some in the audience called it the "death stare").
He also delivered a few good zingers. Asked about competition from Google, which began testing its Offers product in Portland, Ore., on Wednesday, he that he was particularly impressed with one thing: "The Buzz integration is seamless," he said. For those who have forgotten, Buzz is Google's spectacularly failed attempt to build a social network on top of Gmail. Finally he responded to a question about Groupon's potential by saying that the entire retail economy was more than $12 trillion, and that if Groupon could get 10 percent of that, he'd be happy.
Ricoh's pad demoRicoh, the Japanese maker of cameras, copiers and printers, is the latest entrant in the tablet market, which is dominated by Apple's iPad. But rather than going head-to-head with the iPad, Ricoh's eWriter Solution is a lightweight e-Ink tablet that looks more like a large-screen Kindle that you can write on. Ricoh said the tablet is a replacement for clipboards and paper forms that are still widely used in businesses. You may use it to fill out forms at the doctor's office, to sign for a delivery of a package or by an insurance adjuster filling a form for a new claim. The flip side of its limitations is that it is very simple to use. "It was designed to be so simple that people could walk out with it and know how to use it," said Ron Barr, vice president of marketing for Ricoh. It will cost $500 and come with a set of services that will allow companies to manage the tablets and will be available in summer.
Fanhattan search
Trying to decide what to watch on your iPad is not easy. You have to go app by app -- say Netflix, iTunes, and others -- to see what's available. Fanhattan, a new free iPad app, allows you to search through all major apps in one go. If you search for "127 Hours" for example, it will show you all the apps where the movie is available. Clicking through to reviews and previews is easy, and the service works for both movies and television shows. It reminded me of Clicker.com, a service for searching and discovering Web video that was acquired by CBS in March. While Fanhattan works on the iPad only, Gilles BianRosa, the chief executive, said the company plans to make a similar app for Internet connected televisions.
Inkling textbooks
I also got a peek at Inkling, a new iPad app that will be unveiled on Thursday and that offers college students digital versions of their textbooks. Inkling has worked with some major textbook publishers to turn some of their titles into interactive books that look beautiful on the iPad and include video and audio. Matt MacInnis, founder and chief executive of Inkling, was a longtime employee at Apple, where he worked in market development for educational products. He said that by fall, Inkling will have about 100 of the most used textbooks. The company is backed by Sequoia Capital, and a chorus of angel investors. It will compete with Kno, which is also working to digitize textbooks for tablets and was unveiled at the same conference last year.
Say cheese
Speaking of Sequoia-backed companies, another one was introduced at the conference on Wednesday. The Melt, describes itself as an innovative, fast, casual restaurant. It was founded by Jonathan Kaplan, the creator of the Flip Video business, and is opening with four locations in the San Francisco area. It plans to expand to 500 outlets in five years. The Melt let attendees taste its grilled cheese sandwiches, which were definitely more analog than digital.

        
Replacing a Pile of Textbooks With an iPad
        
The Kno, a Tablet for the College Market
        
Google vs. Groupon
        
The Latest From FarmVille's Creator: Empire and Allies
        
San Francisco Tech Companies Get a Tax Break

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (79%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%) cheese; Fanhattan; Groupon; I.P.O.; Inkling; melt; Ricoh; tablet; Textbooks; zynga; Computers and the Internet; Initial Public Offerings; Mobile Applications; Tablet Computers; Kno Inc; Zynga Game Network; Company News; Consumer Electronics; Internet; Silicon Valley

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); GROUPON INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Groupon; Kno Inc; Zynga Game Network

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



31 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Citi Hires 2 More UBS Bankers as Exodus Continues

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The departures of two top UBS investment bankers, James Glerum and Cary Kochman, are the latest in a series of defections from the struggling Swiss firm. 

 BODY:
The exodus from UBS continued on Wednesday as Citigroup announced that it had hired two top investment bankers from the struggling Swiss insitution.
Citi said it had hired James Glerum, the co-head of UBS's Midwestern operations and its head of diversified industrials, and Cary Kochman, co-head of global mergers and acquisitions at UBS.
The moves are the latest in a string of defections from UBS, which has lost senior executives as it grapples with limits on compensation. The Swiss bank is still trying to rebuild itself from the financial crisis, when it lost billions of dollars on soured mortgage bets, leaving itself open to poaching from stronger rivals.
At Citi, Mr. Glerum will become chairman of regional banking for North America. Before joining UBS in 2004, he worked at Credit Suisse.
Mr. Kochman, who also joined UBS from Credit Suisse in 2004, will become head of North American mergers and acquisitions, as well as co-head of the Chicago office alongside Brennan Smith. Mr. Smith will also become head of Midwest industrials.
"Jim and Cary are seasoned bankers with extensive experience acting as trusted advisers to leading multinational companies," Raymond J. McGuire, Citi's head of global banking, said in a statement. "Their expertise in executing complex M.&A. transactions across sectors and geographies matches perfectly with our global platform. Together with Brennan, they will fortify our presence in the Midwest and drive our banking franchise to further success."
Less than a month ago, Citi hired Kevin Cox, then head of Americas investment banking at UBS, to become its co-chairman of industrials investment banking.
UBS executives say that they remain committed to building out their investment banking operations, including in the Midwest. "Our investment banking business in the Americas is performing well this year and is materially ahead versus last year in revenue terms," Aryeh Bourkoff, the head of UBS's investment banking for the Americas, said in a statement.
And here's a statement from Robert Wolf, the president of UBS's investment bank:
UBS is absolutely committed to building our investment banking footprint in the Americas. Make no mistake about it. Today, we are one of the top foreign investment banks in the US but we have much higher ambitions. We have a mandate from the Group to make significant investments in the US and we are executing on our plan to achieve our strategic goals.

        
Citigroup Hires UBS Banker
        
Europe Investigating Banks Over Derivatives

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%) Cary Kochman; Citigroup; James Glerum; UBS; Citigroup Inc; UBS AG; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; UBS AG|UBS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Revolving Door

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; UBS AG

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (91%); CS (NYSE) (91%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; UBS AG; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



32 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: For One Main Street Retailer, a Good Loan Is Hard to Find

BYLINE: ROBB MANDELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: With a steep balloon payment looming in 2014, Charles Kuhn is eager to refinance the debt on his bicycle shop. So far, he's found no takers. 

 BODY:
We've just published a case study that recounts the difficulties Charles Kuhn, a bicycle shop owner in Princeton, N.J., has faced in trying to get a loan to refinance existing debt.
As you'll read, Mr. Kuhn faces a steep balloon payment in 2014 when the mortgage on the shop comes due. The banks he has approached have been unwilling to underwrite a new 25-year term loan for $1 million to absorb both the property debt as well as money owed on a credit card. That credit card obligation likely explains, in part, the lenders' hesitation: business at the bike store suffered during the recent recession and he had trouble making ends meet. Worse, the value of the property has fallen in recent years -- perhaps by as much as a third -- to the point where it may not support a $1 million note.
We asked lenders and advisers about Mr. Kuhn's situation. Here's what several had to say:
Marc S. Sovelove, senior vice president, lending, for Financial Resources Federal Credit Union in Bridgewater, N.J.: "The $1 million loan request appears to be risky for any lender to do: the company's cash flow, collateral, industry trends, leverage, liquidity and profitability are all suspect. Mr. Kuhn's statement about showing a little profit may be acceptable to Mr. Kuhn, but it will not be to a lender. No business can survive for very long on a 1-percent profit margin, and no lender will lend money to a business that appears to be in trouble, with no game plan on how to survive." 
Barry Sloane, president and chief executive. Newtek Business Services, a small-business lender and back-office service provider based in New York: "Washington Mutual was the devil - an undisciplined lender providing finance to an undisciplined borrower. The loan looked great: no financials necessary; no amortization on the loan - so the monthly payment is less, which helps cash flow. It's actually a loan that offers more leverage to the borrower, but it's more risky because at the balloon date none of the principal has been paid down. Washington Mutual made this borrower feel great in the beginning, but it's been taken over by the F.D.I.C. and JPMorgan, and he hasn't amortized his loan in four years."
Jay Townley, a bicycle store consultant based in Lyndon Station, Wis.: "I don't want to add to his anxiety, but there is no reason to believe the real estate market or the commercial loan situation will improve for small business in the next three to five years. I would suggest that Mr. Kuhn focus on the things he can actually do something about for obtaining a $1 million loan, such as developing a three-year business plan for Kopp's Cycle. It doesn't have to take more than a week of effort on Mr. Kuhn's part, but it will get him engaged in spending more time working on his business, instead of in it. He can adjust and re-plan as the economy and the Princeton market change over the next three years. And he will have the achievement of financial goals and objectives to show to any lenders he approaches between now and 2014."
We'd like to know what you think. Please share your views in the comments below. Next week, we'll follow up with another post on Mr. Kuhn's next move.

        
The Real Reasons a Retailer Can't Get a Loan
        
S.B.A. Lending Plunged in June
        
'Bridesmaids' Looks at Losing a Business
        
Survey Says Small-Business Lending Is Surging
        
The Dark Side of Opening a Store

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTING GOODS STORES (91%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); TRENDS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CYCLING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (68%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (50%) Barry Sloane; Charles Kuhn; Financial Resources Credit Union; Jay Townley; Kopp's Cycle; lending; Marc S. Sovelove; Newtek Business Services; retail; Banking and Financial Institutions; Bicycles and Bicycling; Finances; Small Business; Newtek Business Services Inc; Washington Mutual Inc; Princeton (NJ); Newtek Business Services Inc|NEWT|NASDAQ; case study

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); NEWTEK BUSINESS SERVICES INC (53%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (53%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Newtek Business Services Inc; Washington Mutual Inc

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); NEWT (NASDAQ) (53%) Newtek Business Services Inc; NEWT; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (53%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (53%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (51%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%) Princeton (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



33 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: See No Wild Lands, Speak No Wild Lands

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: The federal government says it will confer with federal managers about lands with wilderness potential and seek not to declare any of its holdings "wild lands."

 BODY:
Writing about the environment does make one think about the costs and benefits of recycling. But let it be noted that, despite the temptation, this blog did not recycle the December headline that read "Bush Policy on Wilderness Is Reversed." All of the words in that headline above my colleague's article in December could have been reused, in their original order -- save one.
Where the original headline said "Bush," this one would have said "Obama."
A little more than five months after scuttling the Bush administration's pledge not to set aside more federal land as potential wilderness, and six weeks after Congress passed a measure forbidding him to carry out the pledge, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar issued a memo on Wednesday scuttling his own decision.
The memo said that Interior officials would have discussions with congresspeople, local politicians and federal land managers about lands with wilderness potential and would keep inventories of various parcels of lands and how they might be used, but would follow Congress's command and not try to declare any of its holdings as "wild lands."
On one level, of course, Mr. Salazar was simply declaring that he would follow the law, as noted by Doc Hastings, the Washington Republican who serves as chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee. 
"It's welcome news that the Interior Department will follow the law," a prepared statement issued in Representative Hastings's name said. It went on, "Attempts to prohibit forms of public access, block job-creating activities and manage land as wilderness, even though they haven't been designated as such by Congress, will be met with a strong reaction by this committee."
But on another level, he seemed to be renouncing his proactive wilderness policy for good, not just until the end of the year, when the Congressional prohibition ends. 
Despite one or two compromises between environmentalists and industry, the wilderness/wild lands issue has usually been one with sharp demarcations. And it was so on Wednesday, as wilderness advocates voiced sharp disappointment with Secretary Salazar's decision.
Heidi McIntosh, a lawyer with the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, said in an e-mail: "Months ago, when Secretary Salazar announced the wild lands policy, he said that wilderness was a high priority for the B.L.M [Bureau of Land Management]. And regardless of the funding situation, these places, which define so much of the American experience, deserve much better treatment from this administration. This is not the kind of change we were hoping for." 
She said that her group expected the department to become proactive again when the Congressional prohibitions lifted.
Mr. Salazar's memo did nod to the department's legal obligation to inventory and categorize some of the department's 245 million acres according to its potential use, an obligation that 44 House members reminded him of in a letter over the weekend.
Members of the congressional delegation in Utah, among the country's fiercest opponents of wilderness policy, issued a series of statements praising Mr. Salazar's decision. (Utah had already sued to overturn the policy.) 
The state's junior senator, Mike Lee, said, "The 'wild lands' policy that was abandoned by the secretary today would have harmed the Utah economy, prevented job growth, blocked domestic energy development and resulted in less revenue for our state."

        
Drilling Moratorium to End

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); WILDERNESS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); JOB CREATION (50%) Department of; wild lands; Politics and Policy

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (89%); DOC HASTINGS (57%); ALCEE L HASTINGS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



34 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: The Right's Environmental Wish List

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: Twin measures introduced by Senator David Vitter and Representative Rob Bishop offer a 12-step program for remaking the environmental policy landscape.

 BODY:
There are more motives for legislation, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy. So Hamlet might have observed in gazing upon the environmental and political landscape of 2011, which will either be known as Year One of the post-cap-and-trade era or Year One of the interregnum between cap-and-trade's past and future.
Five or six years ago, it was Democrats in Washington, in the companionship of Republicans like Senator John McCain, who were putting forth measures that had no immediate chance of success (remember cap-and-trade?), with an eye to building support for the long term.
Today one could look at the 3-D Act, (for Domestic Jobs, Domestic Energy and Deficit Reduction), sponsored by David Vitter of Louisiana in the Senate and by Rob Bishop of Utah in the House, as a mosaic of Republican long-term goals like drilling for fossil fuels and reining in environmental regulation (or, in environmentalists' view, rolling back crucial protections). 
At the moment, it is a glued-together melange of legislative ambitions with an infinitesimal chance of enactment; no hearings are expected until after the summer recess.
But each of its parts could be excised from the 3-D measure and tacked onto a passing appropriations measure, or become planking for the Republicans' 2012 platform. 
(Missing in action are the issues of wilderness lands and roadless areas in the West, but these are dealt with in another measure, about which more in a separate post.) 
 "Rising energy costs, unemployment and a $14 trillion dollar national debt are among the biggest challenges that our country is currently facing," Representative Bishop said when the measures were introduced. "This legislation uniquely addresses all three by allowing for the development of domestic resources, which in turn will create thousands of well-paying jobs and begin immediately paying down our $14 trillion dollar debt." That said, here is an abbreviated look at the bills' 12-step program:
1. Put oil and natural gas leasing on the Outer Continental shelf on a fast track, holding lease sales every nine months and making them dependent on commercial expressions of interest (rather than, say, ecosystem requirements) to determine what parcels should be leased. Ensure that a year after the bill becomes law, there will be three lease sales in the Gulf of Mexico and one off the coast of Virginia.
2. Open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to an "environmentally sound program for the exploration, development and production of the oil and gas resources of the Coastal Plain." A generation of environmentalists have fought against this outcome, pitting themselves against a dogged but ultimately failed efforts of Ted Stevens, the late Alaska senator. Senator Stevens's political heirs would like to make his dream come true.
3. Expedite lease sales for companies seeking to extract oil and natural gas from complex geologic formations like oil shale and tar sands in the West.
4. Set a nine-month deadline for the environmental review of any federal action like such leasing. Missed deadlines mean that the action is deemed acceptable -- "of no significant impact," in bureaucratic terms -- and final.
5. Prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency from classifying carbon dioxide or methane from agricultural activities -- like manure-waste ponds filled by livestock in confined feedlots -- as a pollutant. No state (are you listening, California?) could get federal permission to regulate greenhouse-gas emissions from passenger vehicles.
6. Allow state governors to declare emergencies, which, once declared, require federal officials to ignore the provisions of the Endangered Species Act when dealing with the emergency. Examples given involve "flood control" and "water supply." The latter was a major issue in California's agricultural sector during recent years of drought, when supplies of fresh water for agriculture were curbed while supplies of water for endangered fish were preserved.
7. Allow mountaintop removal mining to proceed at Spruce Mine in Logan County, W. Va. It had been blocked by a decision by water regulators at the Environmental Protection Agency who were concerned about filling local stream beds with what miners call "overburden" and others call tons of soil and debris.
8. Reinstate the oil and gas leases in Utah that were purchased in the last years of George W. Bush's administration. One of the Obama administration's first acts was to rescind them.
9. In California's dry central valley, ensure that no federal scientific report -- the term of art is "biological opinion" -- requiring water for endangered fish be allowed to interfere with farmers' right to "a level of allocation of water that is less than the historical maximum allocation."
10. Expedite approval of construction of the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada to the United States. (Nebraska's congressional delegation just asked for the opposite, a delay, to ensure they have time to examine the pipeline's potential for contaminating the huge Ogallala Aquifer as the pipeline crosses it in Nebraska.)
11. Give Shell oil a long-delayed license to drill for oil in the Beaufort Sea above Alaska.
12. Prohibit federal agencies from paying legal fees to environmental groups that prevail in lawsuits challenging the government's environmental stewardship if the result of their actions "prevents, terminates or reduces" access to energy, minerals, timber, land for grazing and water for farming, or "eliminates or prevents one or more jobs."

        
Natural Gas: It's Not Easy Being Green
        
Yet Another Route to Cellulosic Ethanol
        
Wyoming Senator Seeks to Lasso E.P.A. 
        
Extricating Wilderness From Political Limbo
        
A Bird's Convoluted Conservation Odyssey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%); OIL & GAS LEASES (88%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); METHANE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); SURFACE MINING (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); WILDLIFE (69%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (63%); OIL SANDS (60%) Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; California agriculture; Carbon Dioxide; central valley project; Endangered Species Act; Environmental Impact Statements; Environmental Protection Agency; greenhouse gases; Keystone XL; Methane; mountaintop mining; natural gas drilling; Nebraska; oil and gas leases; oil drilling; oil shale; Outer Continental Shelf; Representative Rob Bishop; Senator David Vitter; Spruce Mine; tar sands; Utah; Water Allocation; Bishop, Rob; Vitter, David; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate; California; United States; Energy Politics; Environmental Politics; Politics and Policy; public lands

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%) Environmental Protection Agency; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: ROB BISHOP (90%); DAVID VITTER (90%); TED STEVENS (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%) Bishop, Rob; Vitter, David

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (90%) California; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



35 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: House G.O.P. and Obama Have 'Frank Conversation' on Debt

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: In a "productive" meeting with the president on the federal debt, House Republicans said they told Mr. Obama that they oppose any more spending to jump-start the economy.

 BODY:
At President Obama's invitation, House Republicans met with him on Wednesday and had a "very frank" airing of their views on reducing the federal debt, saying that the president must agree to deep spending cuts without tax increases, and drop his ideas for increasing spending to stimulate the economy.
"We had a very frank conversation," House Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, said as lawmakers left the White House meeting. "I thought it was productive. I'm looking forward to more serious conversations about how we reduce the deficit and the debt to get our economy going again and creating jobs."
Though Friday's monthly jobs report is expected to show continued high unemployment, the second-ranking House Republican, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, said Republicans told Mr. Obama that they oppose any proposals to spend more money to jump-start the economy.
"The discussion really focused on the philosophical difference on whether Washington should continue to pump money into the economy or should we provide an incentive for entrepreneurs and small businesses to grow," Mr. Cantor said. "The president talked about a need for us to continue to quote-unquote invest from Washington's standpoint, and for a lot of us that's code for more Washington spending, something that we can't afford right now."
From the start of the administration, stimulus measures have included both spending and the sort of tax incentives for small businesses that Republicans typically support. Most of these measures run out after this year, and many economists and bipartisan budget groups have recommended that the White House and Congress continue to provide assistance at least through 2012 before taking significant steps to rein in the projected growth of annual budget deficits as the population ages and health care costs rise.
But ahead of the White House meeting, Mr. Boehner released a letter signed by 150 conservative economists, including many officials of past Republican administrations, calling for immediate and deep spending cuts.
Mr. Cantor said Republicans invited Mr. Obama to work with them to overhaul the tax code. In that endeavor and in the ongoing deficit-reduction negotiations that the president initiated, Mr. Cantor added that Mr. Obama should give up "any notion that we're going to increase taxes."
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the sponsor of the House Republicans' budget who has been on the defensive along with his colleagues for its proposal to remake and reduce Medicare, said he had described the plan to Mr. Obama "so in the future he won't mischaracterize it."
"It's been misdescribed by the president and many others," said Mr. Ryan, who objects to descriptions of the plan as a voucher system.
The plan would provide future Medicare beneficiaries with a subsidy to buy coverage from private insurance companies, though the amounts would be held far below projected costs of health care.
The meeting followed the House's overwhelming rejection of a measure to increase the nation's $14.3 trillion debt limit, which must be raised by Aug. 2. Republicans staged that vote, they said, to make the point to Mr. Obama that Congress will not raise the borrowing limit without a companion package of long-term spending cuts greater than the increasein the debt ceiling - as much as $2 trillion if the limit is set at an amount sufficient to cover the nation's financial obligations through election year 2012.
Mr. Obama is to meet with the House Democratic minority on Thursday about budget matters.

        
Obama Predicts Republicans Will 'Play to Their Base'
        
Is the Ryan Budget a Litmus Test for 2012 Republicans?
        
Ryan Defends Medicare Proposal 
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Boehner Likes Christie and Daniels for 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (93%); PUBLIC DEBT (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MEDICARE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (87%); POLITICS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (66%); INSURANCE (50%) barack obama; Eric Cantor; federal debt; federal debt limit; john boehner; Paul Ryan; Boehner, John A; Obama, Barack; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Federal Budget (US); Medicare; House of Representatives; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); PAUL RYAN (93%); JOHN BOEHNER (90%); ERIC CANTOR (89%) Boehner, John A; Obama, Barack; Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



36 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Boehner Cites Support of Economists in Debt Limit Fight

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: The speaker releases a statement signed by 150 economists that backs House Republicans in rejecting an increase in the federal debt limit without corresponding spending cuts.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - In advance of a White House meeting with President Obama, Speaker John A. Boehner on Wednesday issued a statement signed by 150 economists backing House Republicans in rejecting an increase in the federal debt limit without corresponding spending cuts.
 "An increase in the national debt limit that is not accompanied by significant spending cuts and budget reforms to address our government's spending addiction will harm private-sector job creation in America," said the statement to be made public by the speaker. "It is critical that any debt limit legislation enacted by Congress include spending cuts and reforms that are greater than the accompanying increase in debt authority being granted to the president."
The speaker's office noted that those who endorsed the Republican position included Robert Mundell, a Nobel laureate in economics; Michael Boskin of Stanford University, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers under President George H. W. Bush; former Secretary of State George P. Shultz; and two former directors of the Congressional Budget Office.
"Increasing the debt ceiling without significant spending cuts and budget reforms will send a message to American job creators that we still are not serious about ending Washington's spending addiction, and this will bring further harm to private-sector job growth in America," Mr. Boehner said. "We need to enact reforms that will help our economy grow while stopping Washington from spending money it doesn't have."
Mr. Boehner staked out the position that an increase in the debt ceiling would not proceed without a greater level of spending cuts in a speech last month in New York. He also called on a group of economists earlier this year to bolster the Republican assertion that spending cuts can help foster job creation. The White House meeting between President Obama and Republican members of the House comes after the House on Tuesday rejected legislation that would have increased the debt limit with no conditions attached. Republicans pushed the proposal though they opposed it and knew it would fail as a way to show that spending cuts have to be tied to any debt limit hike later this year.

        
Ryan Defends Medicare Proposal 
        
The Early Word: Money, Money, Money
        
For Boehner, the Dance Won't Be Getting Easier
        
Cantor Says House Won't Raise Debt Limit 'Without Serious Cuts'
        
A Warning on Raising Federal Debt Limit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (96%); NATIONAL DEBT (95%); PUBLIC DEBT (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MEDICARE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%) federal debt limit; Rep. John Boehner; Boehner, John A; National Debt (US); Congress

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



37 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: European Regulator Criticizes U.S. on Banker Bonuses

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: Michel Barnier, the European commissioner for the internal market and services, calls for trans-Atlantic unity on financial regulation ahead of a meeting with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. 

 BODY:
5:43 p.m. | Updated 
LONDON -The European Union's top official for banking regulation has accused the Obama administration of being too lax on bonuses for bankers and not putting in place capital rules fast enough.
Michel Barnier, the European commissioner for the internal market and services and a former foreign minister of France, warned that a failure to unify financial regulation in Europe and the United States could give some banks an unfair advantage over their foreign rivals.
"The level playing field must be a reality, not an empty slogan," Mr. Barnier wrote in a letter to the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, whom he is to meet in Washington on Thursday.
At the meeting, Mr. Barnier indicated that he planned to discuss the difference in progress between the United States and the European Union in tightening financial regulation and to urge Mr. Geithner to bring American rules closer to those of Europe.
As lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic push ahead with their own changes to financial regulation, senior officials and banking executives accused one another of lacking the political will for stricter rules. The issue has also been a great source of controversy on Wall Street, where banking executives warned about so-called regulatory arbitrage.
"As you may recall, we implemented Basel II already in 2006," Mr. Barnier wrote in the letter, which was reported earlier by The Financial Times. "It is essential to respect the deadlines agreed last year."
Mr. Barnier also criticized the American approach to restrictions on bonuses as leaving "too much latitude" for financial institutions to "circumvent globally agreed principles."
"I think you agree with me that 'bankers' bonuses' is a matter that continues to cause public outrage," Mr. Barnier wrote in the letter. "Getting this matter right is key to restoring our citizens' confidence in the financial system - and ultimately - their confidence in the public authorities regulating the financial institutions."
The United States and other major economies agreed at the Group of 20 meeting in Pittsburgh in 2009 to find ways to limit incentives for excessive risk taking, which was partly blamed for the financial crisis. But Mr. Barnier argued that only the European Union had imposed binding rules for bonuses.
Under those rules, which were approved last year, banks must defer as much as 60 percent of bonuses to senior managers for at least three years. Half of the remaining amount must be paid in shares as opposed to cash.
Mr. Barnier also plans to ask Mr. Geithner for an update on the writing of Dodd-Frank rules for derivatives markets, credit rating agencies and accounting standards.

        
Derivatives Without Borders vs. Dodd-Frank
        
Wall Street Lobbies Treasury on Dodd-Frank

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (96%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); LOBBYING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPROVALS (67%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%) Bonuses; Dodd-Frank Act; European Union; Michael Barnier; Timothy F. Geithner; Barnier, Michel; Geithner, Timothy F; Banking and Financial Institutions; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Basel Committee on Banking Supervision; Treasury Department; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) Basel Committee on Banking Supervision; European Union; Treasury Department

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Barnier, Michel; Geithner, Timothy F

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



38 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Advanced Scans Reveal Veterans' Brain Injuries

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY

 BODY:
A new study may help explain why some military personnel exposed to blasts have symptoms of brain injury even though their CT and M.R.I. scans look normal.
Using a highly sensitive type of magnetic resonance imaging, researchers studied 63 servicemen wounded by explosions in Iraq or Afghanistan and found evidence of brain injuries in some that were too subtle to be detected by standard scans. All the men already had a diagnosis of mild traumatic brain injury (synonymous with concussion), based on symptoms like having lost consciousness in the blast, having no memory of it or feeling dazed immediately afterward.
About 320,000 American troops have sustained traumatic brain injuries in Iraq and Afghanistan, most of them mild, according to a 2008 report by the RAND Corporation. The injuries are poorly understood, and sometimes produce lasting mental, physical and emotional problems. 
''This sort of mild traumatic brain injury has been quite controversial,'' said Dr. David L. Brody, an author of the new study and an assistant professor of neurology at Washington University in St. Louis. ''Is it due to structural abnormalities in the brain, chemical dysregulation, psychological factors or all three? We show that at least in some there are structural abnormalities.''
The pattern of the damage differed from that found in head injuries not caused by blasts, and matched computer simulations predicting how explosions would affect the brain, Dr. Brody said. If the new findings hold up, he added, they may eventually influence the design of helmets to provide more protection against blasts.
But Dr. Brody and other researchers cautioned that the study was only ''a small first step.'' The study and an accompanying editorial were published online on Wednesday by The New England Journal of Medicine.
The special M.R.I. technique, known as diffusion tensor imaging, is also being studied to help improve the diagnosis of concussions. It can be performed by most M.R.I. machines and does not take longer or cost more than a standard M.R.I. The test measures the movement of water in nerve fibers in the brain; abnormal flow may indicate injury. Changes can be detected in bundles of thousands of axons, the fibers that carry signals.
Dr. Brody and others from Washington University collaborated with military researchers at the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany, to which troops injured in Iraq and Afghanistan are evacuated for treatment.
In 2008 and 2009, the researchers performed diffusion tensor imaging on 63 men who had recently sustained mild traumatic brain injuries from blasts; all but one had normal results on a standard M.R.I. For comparison, 21 control subjects were also scanned -- men exposed to blasts recently but with no symptoms of concussion.
Eighteen of the 63 men with traumatic brain injury had abnormalities consistent with nerve injury in two or more brain regions, areas not usually damaged by other types of mild head injury. The researchers said that only 2 of 63 healthy subjects would be expected to have such abnormalities. Twenty other men with traumatic brain injury had abnormalities in one area, and 25 had none.
''A negative scan, even with these advanced methods, does not rule out traumatic brain injury,'' Dr. Brody said.
Although the findings suggested that blasts may cause a specific pattern of brain injury, the researchers could not be sure, because their study subjects had experienced blows to the head in addition to blast exposure.
Dr. Allan H. Ropper, the executive vice chairman of neurology at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, who wrote the editorial, said in an interview, ''It's never been clear that a blast alone could cause brain damage without some kind of impact on the head, so it's a very important finding that there may be a structural brain representation of a blast injury.''
Katherine Helmick, deputy director for traumatic brain injury at the Defense Centers of Excellence for Psychological Health and Traumatic Brain Injury, said the Defense Department was eager for information that would ''help us understand what blast is doing to the brain, and help us get what we really want in diagnosing traumatic brain injury, which is objective markers.''
The new study helps, but is by no means definitive, she said.
The researchers did not tell the study participants the results of their tests. ''We were specifically directed by the Department of Defense not to do so,'' Dr. Brody said. ''Many of them were hoping we could give results to their care providers to document or validate their concerns. It was anguishing for us, because as a doctor I would like to be able to help them in any way I can. But it was not the protocol we agreed to.''
Nick Colgin, 26, an Army veteran with a brain injury from the war in Afghanistan, who was not involved in the study, said he would like very much to have one of the sensitive M.R.I. scans, to better understand his injury. After a blast in 2007, he developed problems with speech, balance, thinking and focusing his eyes. For a while, he could not write his own name. But nothing showed up on his M.R.I. He has improved gradually and is now attending the University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point, but he still has severe headaches.
Christine L. MacDonald, a research instructor in neurology at Washington University and another author of the study, said the scans were still a research tool and not ready for widespread use. Researchers are trying to perfect the technique as quickly as possible for use in the care of wounded service members, she said in an e-mail, adding, ''I wish we could help them now, but we aren't there yet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRAIN INJURIES (94%); BRAIN (94%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (78%); HEAD INJURIES (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (76%); MODELING & SIMULATION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); WRITERS (67%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (65%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (55%) NORTHEAST USA (78%); MISSOURI, USA (70%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



39 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: E. Coli Deaths Causing Panic Across Europe

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL and WILLIAM NEUMAN; Alan Cowell reported from Berlin, and William Neuman from New York. Reporting was contributed by James Kanter from Brussels; Victor Homola, Stefan Pauly and Judy Dempsey from Berlin; and Raphael Minder from Motril, Spain.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- An unusually lethal strain of E. coli bacteria has infected more than 1,500 people in Germany, mystifying public health officials, ravaging Spain's agricultural heartland, and touching off panic in Europe as people weighed whether it was safe to eat raw vegetables.
The source of the outbreak, which has killed at least 16 people -- 15 in Germany and a Swede who visited there recently -- remained unknown.
Public health officials are alarmed because a startlingly high proportion of those infected suffer from a potentially lethal complication attacking the kidneys, called hemolytic uremic syndrome, which can provoke comas, seizures and stroke. Dr. Robert Tauxe, deputy director of food-borne disease at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, said the rate of cases of acute kidney failure in the outbreak was unprecedented. ''That makes this an extraordinarily large and severe event,'' he said.
While most of the infections were among people who had traveled to northern Germany, the authorities acknowledged that the outbreak had spread to virtually every corner of the country. 
Shoppers and vegetable sellers in Berlin expressed a blend of confusion, anger and stoicism; about 20 cases of E. coli infection have been reported in the capital city. ''A lot of people are afraid or worried,'' said Nursan Usta, 43, who runs a fruit and vegetable stall in Berlin's blue-collar Neukolln district. ''They aren't even buying cherries'' -- even though the authorities have mentioned only cucumbers, lettuce and tomatoes as potential sources of infection. In Motril, a town in Spain's agricultural heartland, greenhouses were empty of workers as demand for vegetables collapsed after the German authorities initially -- and most likely mistakenly -- pointed to Spain as a source of the outbreak.
''Working in a greenhouse can be tough, but I've never felt more exhausted and empty inside than now,'' said Miguel Rodriguez Puentedura, who had been picking cucumbers until Monday, when the greenhouse that employed him shut down.
Health officials in Hamburg, the center of the outbreak, appealed Wednesday for donors to contribute blood.
Scientists are at a loss to explain why this little-known organism, identified as E. coli 0104:H4, has proved so virulent.
The European authorities have reported several differences from previous outbreaks, including that women make up more than two-thirds of those affected and that young and middle-aged adults account for a very high percentage of the most severe cases. Dr. J. Glenn Morris, director of the Emerging Pathogens Institute of the University of Florida, said that the German strain might have undergone genetic changes or mutations to make it more potent.
The high number of cases of acute kidney failure represents a much higher percentage of the total number of illnesses than in previous outbreaks associated with different strains of E. coli. Generally, 5 to 10 percent of E. coli illnesses result in this complication. Among the confirmed cases, according to the Robert Koch Institute, Germany's disease control agency, 470 people had been diagnosed with the kidney syndrome.
That could be because German doctors are using a broader definition of kidney failure that captures more cases. Or it could mean that the total number of illnesses is much greater than has so far been revealed, which ultimately would lower the percentage of acute cases. Or it could be a signature of this form of E. coli.
There are many types of E. coli, most of which are harmless. But a small number have come under increasing scrutiny as dangerous pathogens. These all produce a poison known as shiga toxin and generally have the ability to cling to a person's intestinal wall, allowing them to release the poison in large enough amounts to make people sick.
Dr. Phillip Tarr, a professor of microbiology at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, said that there were two main forms of shiga toxin found in E. coli, and that the strain detected in the outbreak in Germany appeared to have the more potent version. But he said the organism appeared to have other quirks that made it unusual, and potentially difficult to detect by conventional means.
''This outbreak is still evolving, and everyone is still in the fog of case definition,'' Dr. Tarr said. With the source of the contagion unknown, the Robert Koch Institute on Wednesday warned against eating ''raw tomatoes, cucumbers and lettuces to prevent further cases,'' particularly in northern Germany.
European and German officials pledged to track down the cause of the outbreak and to pinpoint where in the food supply chain the contamination had taken place. ''Hundreds of tests have been done,'' the German agriculture minister, Ilse Aigner, said in a television interview. So far, those tests had determined that ''most of the patients who have fallen ill ate cucumbers, tomatoes and leaf lettuce primarily in northern Germany.''
Two people in the United States were hospitalized with kidney failure after returning from travel to Hamburg, said Dr. Tauxe of the Centers for Disease Control. He said tests were being done to see if they were sick with a strain of E. coli that matched the German strain.
Dr. Tarr said the outbreak in Germany pointed to a basic gap in public health systems worldwide. If samples from sick patients were routinely tested for the presence of shiga toxin, it could lead to much faster identification of problems. After a lethal outbreak of E. coli in 1993, Dr. Tauxe said the United States created a government database that gathered information on laboratory testing of pathogens and shared it with health officials around the country. He said no similar system existed in Europe that would allow separate countries to quickly share lab results.
''This could be an important game-changing event in Europe,'' he said.
John Dalli, the European Union health commissioner, told a news conference in Brussels that the outbreak was on the decline, with fewer hospitalizations in recent days. ''We would therefore consider a ban on any product as disproportionate,'' Mr. Dalli said.
Tests by the German authorities on Spanish cucumbers had identified some E. coli, Mr. Dalli said. But those tests had not identified the highly virulent strain that had led to such serious health problems. ''There is no proof at this point in time that the Spanish cucumbers are the cause of this contamination in Germany,'' he said.
Still, some shoppers remained wary. In a store specializing in organically grown produce in the upscale Wilmersdorf area of the capital, Miriam Schafer, a sales attendant, said Spanish cucumbers had been removed from the shelves -- even though they were no longer the direct suspects -- and replaced by locally grown ones. ''People are buying less,'' she said. ''They are asking a lot of questions about what is safe.''
But some shoppers insisted that the risk was minimal. The cause of the outbreak ''is not yet proven,'' said Corinna Kasper, 24. ''First they say it's one thing and then another.''
European farmers sought to pre-empt economic damage caused by the outbreak. ''It is totally unacceptable to impose trade bans when the source of contamination remains unknown,'' said Pekka Pesonen, the secretary general of Copa-Cogeca, a group representing European farmers and cooperatives.
Major growers in Germany are losing up to $7 million daily and two-thirds of all vegetables, including lettuce and tomatoes, produced by his members were being destroyed, according to Karl Schmitz, the director of the German Federal Association of Producers of Fruit and Vegetables. In Spain, the damage is much broader, estimated at about $286 million a week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A nurse in Hamburg, Germany, on Wednesday tended a patient infected with a virulent strain of E. coli bacteria. The patient was undergoing dialysis to treat kidneys damaged by the bacteria. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGELIKA WARMUTH/DPA, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 In Berlin, shoppers expressed confusion, anger and stoicism over the outbreak. About 20 cases have been reported there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON WELTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: E COLI (92%); BACTERIA (92%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); KIDNEY DISEASE (89%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DISEASE REPORTING (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (75%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (60%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) GERMANY (95%); SPAIN (94%); EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



40 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (NBC) LOVE BITES Three loosely connected stories about dating, sex, love and marriage are presented each week in this new series, which stars Becki Newton (above) as Annie, a single New Yorker looking for ''Mr. Right Now,'' and Constance Zimmer and Greg Grunberg as Colleen and Judd Rouscher, a happy married couple in Venice Beach, Calif. In this premiere episode, filled with guest stars, Cassie (Krysten Ritter), becomes jealous of all the attention bestowed on Annie, who is pregnant, carrying a child for her sister. Not to be outdone, Cassie masquerades as a virgin to get a man. Elsewhere an accountant (Kyle Howard) is fired and returns home early to find his fiancee (Lindsay Price) in bed with a gift from her bachelorette party. And Judd ends up sitting next to Jennifer Love Hewitt on a cross-country flight. She happens to be on his ''celebrity exemption list,'' which means he is allowed to sleep with her without marital consequences. 
7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY In a live broadcast from St. Peter's Square in Vatican City, Matt Lauer and Al Roker have an audience with Pope Benedict XVI. Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan of New York gives Mr. Lauer and Mr. Roker a private tour of the Basilica, including a look at John Paul II's newly installed tomb; the occasion is being billed as the first such peek for an American broadcast. Anne Thompson examines how the church has embraced social media.
8 P.M. (13) SUZE ORMAN'S MONEY CLASS In a repeat of a March broadcast, Ms. Orman offers no-nonsense advice on rethinking traditional strategies for achieving financial goals since the economic crisis. The core of her message in this program taped in Minneapolis at the University of Minnesota is reimagining the American dream. She also talks about understanding the opportunities and pitfalls of the real estate market; raising financially aware children; borrowing for college and paying off student loans; building a career; saving and investing; and planning for retirement.
9 P.M. (E!) BECAUSE I SAID SO (2007) Diane Keaton (left) plays Daphne Wilder, an overprotective single mother who worries that her youngest daughter, Milly (Mandy Moore), will end up with the wrong man, or no man at all. So Daphne takes out a personal ad on behalf of Milly, without her knowledge. Soon Milly has two men: her mother's Mr. Right and her own Mr. Right, who has already failed to pass her mother's inspection. You can guess the rest. ''The rules of romantic comedy dictate a few wrong choices on the way to the right one, an alternation of giggles, tears and hugs, and 'Because I Said So' plays cautiously by the rules,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. ''Directed by Michael Lehmann from a script credited to Karen Leigh Hopkins and Jessie Nelson, it is a mild exercise in deliberate mediocrity, with chuckles and heartwarming moments distributed as carefully as nuts in a factory-made brownie.''
10 P.M. (TLC) NY INK Ami James of ''Miami Ink'' sets his sights on his hometown and opens a new shop, Wooster Street Social Club, in SoHo, where he invites some of the best tattoo artists to join his team. And that means a new set of problems.
10 P.M. (Flix) THE COMPANY OF WOLVES (1985) In Neil Jordan's gothic take on the Little Red Riding Hood story, an eerie grandmother (Angela Lansbury) regales her granddaughter (Sarah Patterson) with Freudian tales of young girls and hairy men. Writing in The New York Times, Vincent Canby said that the film was ''frequently quite funny, and often means to be,'' and added that Ms. Lansbury's role ''seems not too far removed from her Tony-winning, meat-pie-baking Mrs. Lovett in 'Sweeney Todd.' ''
11:30 P.M. (Showtime) THE READER (2008) Kate Winslet won the Oscar as best actress for her portrayal of an illiterate Nazi prison guard on trial for war crimes in this drama from Stephen Daldry, adapted by David Hare from a novel by Bernhard Schlink. Ralph Fiennes also stars as the lawyer she seduced when he was 15 (played as a teenager by David Kross). ''You have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and asks us to pity a death-camp guard,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. ''But the film is neither about the Holocaust nor about those Germans who grappled with its legacy: it's about making the audience feel good about a historical catastrophe that grows fainter with each new tasteful interpolation.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORDIN ALTHAUS/NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); RELIGION (87%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); STUDENT LOANS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (62%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT (52%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (74%) MINNESOTA, USA (86%) HOLY SEE (87%); UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



41 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2041 words

HEADLINE: To Slake Thirst of North, China Looks South

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Li Bibo, Jonathan Kaiman and Jimmy Wang contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
DANJIANGKOU, China -- North China is dying.
A chronic drought is ravaging farmland. The Gobi Desert is inching south. The Yellow River, the so-called birthplace of Chinese civilization, is so polluted it can no longer supply drinking water. The rapid growth of megacities -- 22 million people in Beijing and 12 million in Tianjin alone -- has drained underground aquifers that took millenniums to fill.
Not atypically, the Chinese government has a grand and expensive solution: Divert at least six trillion gallons of water each year hundreds of miles from the other great Chinese river, the Yangtze, to slake the thirst of the north China plain and its 440 million people.
The engineering feat, called the South-North Water Diversion Project, is China's most ambitious attempt to subjugate nature. It would be like channeling water from the Mississippi River to meet the drinking needs of Boston, New York and Washington. Its $62 billion price tag is twice that of the Three Gorges Dam, which is the world's largest hydroelectric project. And not unlike that project, which Chinese officials last month admitted had ''urgent problems,'' the water diversion scheme is increasingly mired in concerns about its cost, its environmental impact and the sacrifices poor people in the provinces are told to make for those in richer cities. 
Three artificial channels from the Yangtze would transport precious water from the south, which itself is increasingly afflicted by droughts; the region is suffering its worst one in 50 years. The project's human cost is staggering -- along the middle route, which starts here in Hubei Province at a gigantic reservoir and snakes 800 miles to Beijing, about 350,000 villagers are being relocated to make way for the canal. Many are being resettled far from their homes and given low-grade farmland; in Hubei, thousands of people have been moved to the grounds of a former prison.
''Look at this dead yellow earth,'' said Li Jiaying, 67, a hunched woman hobbling to her new concrete home clutching a sickle and a bundle of dry sticks for firewood. ''Our old home wasn't even being flooded for the project and we were asked to leave. No one wanted to leave.''
About 150,000 people had been resettled by this spring. Many more will follow. A recent front-page article in People's Daily, the Communist Party's mouthpiece, said the project ''has entered a key period of construction.''
Some Chinese scientists say the diversion could destroy the ecology of the southern rivers, making them as useless as the Yellow River. The government has neglected to do proper impact studies, they say. There are precedents in the United States. Lakes in California were damaged and destroyed when the Owens River was diverted in the early 20th century to build Los Angeles.
Here, more than 14 million people in Hubei would be affected if the project damaged the Han River, the tributary of the Yangtze where the middle route starts, said Du Yun, a geographer at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Wuhan, the provincial capital.
Officials in provinces south of Beijing and Tianjin have privately raised objections and are haggling over water pricing and compensation; midlevel officials in water-scarce Hebei Province are frustrated that four reservoirs in their region have sent more than 775 million cubic meters, or 205 billion gallons, of water to Beijing since September 2008 in an ''emergency'' supplement to the middle route.
Overseers of the eastern route, which is being built alongside an ancient waterway for barges called the Grand Canal, have found that the drinking water to be brought to Tianjin from the Yangtze is so polluted that 426 sewage treatment plants have to be built; water pollution control on the route takes up 44 percent of the $5 billion investment, according to Xinhua, the official news agency. The source water from the Han River on the middle route is cleaner. But the main channel will cross 205 rivers and streams in the industrial heartland of China before reaching Beijing.
''When water comes to Beijing, there's the danger of the water not being safe to drink,'' said Dai Qing, an environmental advocate who has written critically about the Three Gorges Dam.
''I think this project is a product of the totalitarian regime in Beijing as it seeks to take away the resources of others,'' she added. ''I am totally opposed to this project.''
Ms. Dai and some Chinese scholars say the government should instead be limiting the population in the northern cities and encouraging water conservation.
The project's official Web site says that the diversion ''will be an important and basic facility for mitigating the existing crisis of water resources in north China'' and that sufficient studies have been done. Wang Jian, a former environmental and water management official with the Beijing government and the State Council, China's cabinet, agreed that the project ''carries huge risks,'' but he said there were no other options given the severity of the current water shortage.
The middle route is to start major operations in 2014, and the eastern route is expected to be operational by 2013. The lines were originally supposed to open by the 2008 Summer Olympics, but have been hobbled by myriad problems.
The diversion project was first studied in the 1950s, after Mao uttered: ''Water in the south is abundant, water in the north scarce. If possible, it would be fine to borrow a little.''
In a country afflicted by severe cycles of droughts and floods and peasant rebellions that often resulted from them, control of water has always been important to Chinese rulers. Emperors sought to legitimize their rule with large-scale water projects like the Grand Canal or the irrigation system in Dujiangyan.
After the initial studies in the 1950s, the government did not look seriously again at the project until the 1990s, when north China was hit hard by droughts. In 2002, the State Council gave the green light for work to start on the middle and eastern routes; the western route, which would run at an average altitude of 10,000 to 13,000 feet across the Tibetan plateau to help irrigate the Yellow River basin, has been deemed too difficult to start for now.
Officials in Tianjin are so skeptical of the eastern route's ability to deliver drinkable water that they are looking at desalinization as an alternative. Planners have more hope for the middle route, though the engineering is a much greater challenge -- the canal has to be built entirely from scratch, with 1,774 structures constructed along its length to channel the water, since there is no pre-existing waterway like the Grand Canal to follow.
At the start of the route, the water level of the Danjiangkou Reservoir on the Han River has been raised 43 feet to 558 feet so that the water can flow downhill to Beijing. The government said the rising waters and a need to combat soil erosion necessitated moving 130,000 farmers last year from around the reservoir. Similar relocations are taking place all along the main channel, which runs through four provinces.
About 1,300 residents of Qingshan township have been moved to Xiangbei Farm, desolate land where a prison once stood. The villagers now live in sterile rows of yellow concrete houses 125 miles east of their abandoned ancestral homes. A government sign in the middle of the settlement says: ''The land is fertile and has complete irrigation systems.''
The farmers know better. Each person is supposed to get a small plot of land free, but the soil here is well known to be exceedingly poor. The people also complain that in the government's compensation formula, their old homes were undervalued, so many have had to pay several thousand dollars to buy new homes.
''There's nothing here,'' said Huang Jiuguo, 57. ''There's no enterprise. Our children are grown, and they need something to do.''
For three days last November, thousands of residents of a resettlement area in Qianjiang city blocked roads to protest poorly built homes and lack of promised compensation, according to a report by Radio Free Asia. Officials ordered the police to break up the rally, resulting in clashes, injuries and arrests.
Forced relocations, though, could pale next to larger fallouts from the project.
''We feel that we are still unsure how the project is going to impact on the environment, ecologies, economies and society at large,'' said Mr. Du, the geographer in Wuhan, who carefully added he was not outright opposed to the project.
The central question for people in Hubei is whether the Han River, crucial to farming and industrial production hubs, will be killed to keep north China alive.
In a paper published in the Bulletin of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Mr. Du and two co-authors estimated that the diversion project would reduce the flow of the middle and lower stretches of the Han significantly, ''leading to an uphill situation for the prevention of water pollution and ecological protection.'' Though the study first appeared in 2006, the government has not altered its original plan, Mr. Du said.
Central planners decided on the amount of water to be diverted based on calculations of water flow in the Han done from the 1950s to the early 1990s; since then, the water flow has dropped, partly because of prolonged droughts, but planners have made no adjustments, Mr. Du said. The amount to be diverted is more than one-third of the annual water flow. ''That will exert a huge damaging impact on the river,'' he said.
The Han River is already facing enormous challenges -- industries are discharging more and more pollutants, companies are dredging sand to feed construction needs in nearby cities and algal bloom has hit the river hard. The diversion of water to Beijing will add to the pressures. ''If the water quality cannot be ameliorated effectively, the aquatic life populations will be further decimated,'' Mr. Du and his co-authors wrote.
The diversion from the Han is necessitating more complex projects to raise water levels. One side diversion brings water from the Yangtze to the Han. Another would bring water from the Three Gorges reservoir to the Danjiangkou reservoir.
Government officials in the south are keenly aware of the changes coming to the Han. In Xiangfan, officials have shuttered some small factories like paper producers and forced others to use more nonpolluting materials, said Yun Jianli, director of the environmental advocacy group Green Han River. ''The local government is very concerned about the river and impact of the diversion project,'' she said.
The political conflicts are obvious. Mr. Du, a member of the provincial consultative legislature, said officials in Hubei had been in constant negotiations with officials in Beijing for compensation. In the 1990s, the central government proposed a package of water projects valued at $50 million at the time to help Hubei. After rounds of negotiations, the current proposal for supplemental water projects is estimated at more than $1 billion.
The demands of the north will not abate. Migration from rural areas means Beijing's population is growing by one million every two years, according to an essay in China Daily written last October by Hou Dongmin, a scholar of population development at Renmin University of China. ''With its dwindling water resources, Beijing cannot sustain a larger population,'' Mr. Hou said. ''Instead, it should make serious efforts to control the population, if not reduce it.''
Beijing has about 100 cubic meters, or 26,000 gallons, of water available per person. According to a standard adopted by the United Nations, that is a fraction of the 1,000 cubic meters, or 260,000 gallons, per person that indicates chronic water scarcity.
The planning for Beijing's growth up to 2020 by the State Council already assumes the water diversion will work, rather than planning for growth with much less water, said Mr. Wang, the former official.
City planners see a Beijing full of golf courses, swimming pools and nearby ski slopes -- the model set by the West.
''Instead of transferring water to meet the growing demand of a city, we should decide the size of a city according to how much water resources it has,'' Mr. Wang said. ''People's desire for development has no end.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The project will divert six trillion gallons of water a year from the Yangtze, seen from Wuhan, Hubei Province. More photographs are at nytimes.com/world.
About 1,300 residents of Qingshan township have been moved to the desolate Xiangbei Farm.
 Schoolchildren headed home in the afternoon, walking by the dry Yongding river near Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) MAP: Three artificial channels from the Yangtze would transport water from the south, which is itself increasingly dry. (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); RIVERS (89%); DROUGHT (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENGINEERING (74%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (74%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); RELOCATIONS (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); YANGTZE RIVER (94%); CENTRAL CHINA (93%); GOBI DESERT (92%); HUBEI, CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



42 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: When the Nile Runs Dry

BYLINE: By LESTER R. BROWN. 
Lester R. Brown is the president of the Earth Policy Institute and the author of ''World on the Edge: How to Prevent Environmental and Economic Collapse.''

 BODY:
Washington
A NEW scramble for Africa is under way. As global food prices rise and exporters reduce shipments of commodities, countries that rely on imported grain are panicking. Affluent countries like Saudi Arabia, South Korea, China and India have descended on fertile plains across the African continent, acquiring huge tracts of land to produce wheat, rice and corn for consumption back home.
Some of these land acquisitions are enormous. South Korea, which imports 70 percent of its grain, has acquired 1.7 million acres in Sudan to grow wheat -- an area twice the size of Rhode Island. In Ethiopia, a Saudi firm has leased 25,000 acres to grow rice, with the option of expanding. India has leased several hundred thousand acres there to grow corn, rice and other crops. And in countries like Congo and Zambia, China is acquiring land for biofuel production. 
These land grabs shrink the food supply in famine-prone African nations and anger local farmers, who see their governments selling their ancestral lands to foreigners. They also pose a grave threat to Africa's newest democracy: Egypt.
Egypt is a nation of bread eaters. Its citizens consume 18 million tons of wheat annually, more than half of which comes from abroad. Egypt is now the world's leading wheat importer, and subsidized bread -- for which the government doles out approximately $2 billion per year -- is seen as an entitlement by the 60 percent or so of Egyptian families who depend on it.
As Egypt tries to fashion a functioning democracy after President Hosni Mubarak's departure, land grabs to the south are threatening its ability to put bread on the table because all of Egypt's grain is either imported or produced with water from the Nile River, which flows north through Ethiopia and Sudan before reaching Egypt. (Since rainfall in Egypt is negligible to nonexistent, its agriculture is totally dependent on the Nile.)
Unfortunately for Egypt, two of the favorite targets for land acquisitions are Ethiopia and Sudan, which together occupy three-fourths of the Nile River Basin. Today's demands for water are such that there is little left of the river when it eventually empties into the Mediterranean.
The Nile Waters Agreement, which Egypt and Sudan signed in 1959, gave Egypt 75 percent of the river's flow, 25 percent to Sudan and none to Ethiopia. This situation is changing abruptly as wealthy foreign governments and international agribusinesses snatch up large swaths of arable land along the Upper Nile. While these deals are typically described as land acquisitions, they are also, in effect, water acquisitions.
Now, when competing for Nile water, Cairo must deal with several governments and commercial interests that were not party to the 1959 agreement. Moreover, Ethiopia -- never enamored of the agreement -- has announced plans to build a huge hydroelectric dam on its branch of the Nile that would reduce the water flow to Egypt even more.
Because Egypt's wheat yields are already among the world's highest, it has little potential to raise its agricultural productivity. With its population of 81 million projected to reach 101 million by 2025, finding enough food and water is a daunting challenge.
Egypt's plight could become part of a larger, more troubling scenario. Its upstream Nile neighbors -- Sudan, with 44 million people, and Ethiopia, with 83 million -- are growing even faster, increasing the need for water to produce food. Projections by the United Nations show the combined population of these three countries increasing to 272 million by 2025 -- and 360 million by 2050 -- from 208 million now.
Growing water demand, driven by population growth and foreign land and water acquisitions, are straining the Nile's natural limits. Avoiding dangerous conflicts over water will require three transnational initiatives. First, governments must address the population threat head-on by ensuring that all women have access to family planning services and by providing education for girls in the region. Second, countries must adopt more water-efficient irrigation technologies and plant less water-intensive crops.
Finally, for the sake of peace and future development cooperation, the nations of the Nile River Basin should come together to ban land grabs by foreign governments and agribusiness firms. Since there is no precedent for this, international help in negotiating such a ban, similar to the World Bank's role in facilitating the 1960 Indus Waters Treaty between India and Pakistan, would likely be necessary to make it a reality.
None of these initiatives will be easy to implement, but all are essential. Without them, rising bread prices could undermine Egypt's revolution of hope and competition for the Nile's water could turn deadly.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRAD HOLLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RICE FARMING (90%); RIVERS (86%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); FAMINE (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); WHEAT FARMING (76%); BIOFUELS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (66%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (63%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (63%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (62%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (60%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (73%) NILE RIVER (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) EGYPT (98%); AFRICA (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ETHIOPIA (94%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); SUDAN (91%); SAUDI ARABIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); ZAMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



43 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Report Finds Inequities In Payments For Medicare

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Medicare uses inaccurate, unreliable data to pay doctors and hospitals, the National Academy of Sciences said Wednesday.
Although Medicare is a national program, it adjusts payments to health care providers to reflect regional differences in wages, rent and other costs.
But in a new report, a panel of experts from the academy's Institute of Medicine said the payment formulas were deeply flawed. 
The system of paying doctors has ''fundamental conceptual problems,'' and the method of paying hospitals is so unrealistic that almost 40 percent of them have been reclassified into higher-paying areas, the report said.
White House officials agreed to commission the study in March 2010 -- in the last tense days of Congressional debate over President Obama's health care overhaul -- as a way to secure the votes of lawmakers from Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin and other states who believed their doctors and hospitals had long been shortchanged by Medicare. As a result of such underpayments, the lawmakers said, many parts of their states have difficulty recruiting doctors, nurses and other practitioners, and consumers often have difficulty finding specialists.
However, the new study says that geographic adjustments should be used to increase the accuracy of Medicare payments, not to address shortages of providers in some places.
The report criticizes the current arrangement under which Medicare distributes tens of billions of dollars based on regional variations in wages, rents and other costs in 441 hospital labor markets and 89 payment zones for doctors. Of the physician payment zones, 34 cover entire states.
The panel said Medicare should recognize a single set of 441 payment areas for doctors and hospitals alike.
As a result of such a change, the panel said, ''higher-cost areas would be separated from lower-cost areas,'' and payments to doctors in metropolitan areas would generally increase, while payments to doctors in some rural areas could be expected to decrease.
Michael D. Abrams, executive vice president of the Iowa Medical Society, said he was ''a little surprised'' and disappointed that the panel did not acknowledge that Medicare overemphasized the importance of geographic differences in office rents.
''You could argue that it costs more to deliver health care in rural America, in sparsely populated areas, than in densely populated areas,'' Mr. Abrams said.
''Office space is a lot more expensive in Brooklyn, N.Y., than in Brooklyn, Iowa,'' he said, but Medicare's payment formula gives too much weight to such differences.
Mr. Abrams said he was concerned that the panel's recommendations could ''make things worse'' for many doctors and patients in his state. The panel will analyze the impact of its recommendations in a report next spring.
By the end of this year, under the new health care law, the secretary of health and human services must send Congress a plan to revise the way Medicare adjusts payments to reflect regional differences in hospital wages.
Any such plan could have major economic and political implications. Wages account for about two-thirds of hospital costs, the panel said, and regional differences are substantial, with a registered nurse paid almost twice as much per hour in San Francisco as in Springfield, Mo.
Under the new health law, geographic adjustments may not increase total costs to Medicare, so that an increase in payments to one hospital or group of hospitals must generally be offset by decreases in payments to others.
Frank A. Sloan, a professor of economics at Duke University and chairman of the study panel, said Medicare needed to find a new source of data on commercial office rents. The current measure, based on rent for a two-bedroom apartment, does not accurately reflect the prices doctors face, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); RURAL HEALTH (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



44 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
TALIBAN AIM TO DERAIL
AFGHAN SECURITY TRANSFER
Insurgents have stepped up attacks in parts of Afghanistan scheduled to be handed over to Afghan military control next month and have put new emphasis on a campaign of assassinations aimed at important officials around the country, Afghan officials say. PAGE A8
AIDING CLIMATE PROGRAMS 
The World Bank signed an agreement with mayors from 40 of the world's biggest cities to work on technical and financial assistance for projects to minimize the effects of climate change. The deal, announced at the C40 large cities climate meeting in Brazil, will ease access to financing for climate change-reduction projects. PAGE A10
CHINA TRIES TO QUELL PROTESTS
Over the past week, as rallies protesting the deaths of two Mongolians run down by drivers who are Han Chinese spread across the sparsely populated Chinese region of Hohhot, officials of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region have sought to stanch demonstrations through a classically Chinese carrot-and-stick approach to ethnic instability. PAGE A6
CHILDREN DIE IN SYRIA RAIDS
Syrian military forces killed 42 people, including a 10-year-old boy and 4-year-old girl, in raids on a string of towns around the central city of Homs as the government continued trying to crush a three-month popular uprising against President Bashar al-Assad, human rights activists said. PAGE A12
TEAM FAULTS JAPAN ON PLANT
In a critical report, a team of inspectors from an international nuclear regulator said Japan underestimated the danger of tsunamis and failed to prepare adequate backup systems at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant. PAGE A8
National
REPORT FINDS INEQUITIES
IN PAYMENTS FOR MEDICARE
Although Medicare is a national program, it adjusts payments to health care providers to reflect regional differences in wages, rent and other costs. In a new report, however, a panel of experts says the payment formulas are deeply flawed, and that Medicare uses inaccurate, unreliable data to pay doctors and hospital. PAGE A18
RUMORS ON FIRES' ORIGINS
There is speculation that illegal immigrants started one of the nation's largest wildfires, which has burned up more than 70,000 acres of national forest along Arizona's border with Mexico since it began almost four weeks ago. But the authorities say that they do not know if it is true. PAGE A16
BUS REGULATIONS TIGHTENED
The federal Transportation Department said that it was tightening its policies after acknowledging that the bus company involved in a fatal accident in Virginia this week had been allowed to continue operating while it appealed a suspension for safety violations. PAGE A19
New York
COUNCIL SPEAKER OFFERS CUTS
AS ALTERNATIVE TO LAYOFFS
The City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, proposed roughly $75 million in cuts to the Department of Education's budget, in an attempt to help minimize the layoffs planned for thousands of teachers this summer, as outlined by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg last month. PAGE A21
HALT TO FINGERPRINT CHECKS
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said that he was suspending New York's participation in a federal immigration enforcement program that has drawn fire from immigrant advocates, civil liberties lawyers and elected officials in the state and around the country. PAGE A21
Sports
JAMES'S DETRACTORS
BRACE FOR A TITLE
After LeBron James's widely criticized departure from Cleveland, there are grudging acknowledgements from just about everywhere that he is the N.B.A.'s most compelling and transcendent figure and approaching his greatest hour as his team, the Miami Heat, play in the N.B.A. Finals. PAGE B12
METS' SAGGING ATTENDANCE
The Mets' attendance through their first 25 home games is now running 13 percent behind last season's pace, which in turn was 15 percent below 2009's. But the news is a little bit worse than that, as the downward trend appears to be accelerating, despite lower ticket prices, and the team appears to be making about 20 percent or 25 percent less than they should be. PAGE A14
Arts
IN LADY GAGA'S ALBUM,
EVIDENCE OF A NEW ORDER
Lady Gaga's new album, ''Born This Way,'' was released on May 23 and sold 1,108,000 copies in the United States in its first week -- outselling the next 42 albums on Billboard's chart combined. But the album's success is emblematic of a sea change in the music industry: for artists, recorded music now plays second fiddle to touring, endorsements, merchandise sales and an array of other revenue streams once considered ancillary. PAGE C1
Home
USING GADGETS
TO ZAP GERMS
Farhad Manjoo has been testing several gadgets that promise to reduce or eliminate many household pathogens: devices to sanitize cellphones, toothbrushes, bedding, floors, countertops and even the very air circulating through a person's home. Home Tech. PAGE D4
Thursday Styles
THE PROM DRESS MOVES
INTO THE DESIGNER LEAGUES
Despite the economic downturn, and perhaps influenced by shows like ''Gossip Girl'' that incorporate designer clothes into their story lines, some teenagers are buying designer dresses, sometimes costing in the mid-three figures or higher, for prom night. PAGE E5
OP-ED
Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A23
Mark Bittman PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); CITIES (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MAYORS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (69%); POWER PLANTS (69%); DEATHS (69%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (69%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); FOREST FIRES (66%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (64%); HEALTH CARE (63%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (63%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (61%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (61%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (72%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); JAPAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



45 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CASE STUDY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: A Bicycle Shop Struggles to Get a Loan

BYLINE: By ROBB MANDELBAUM

 BODY:
Kopp's Cycle has served Princeton, N.J., since 1891. It is, claims the owner, Charles Kuhn, the oldest bicycle store in America. Mr. Kuhn's father, after working as a salesman for Schwinn, bought the business from the founder's wife in the 1940s. In the 1950s, Kopp's earned a reputation for being one of the few bike shops in the United States to stock racing gear by renowned European makers, like Cinelli and Campagnolo.
THE CHALLENGE Obtaining a $1 million loan to refinance the mortgage on the bike store, pay down credit card debt and obtain working capital.
THE BACKGROUND Kopp's Cycle operates out of a small storefront on a quiet side street in downtown Princeton. Behind the counter is a repair studio that is lined with old wooden bins and is just big enough for three mechanics. Mr. Kuhn still sits at the workbench he used when he was a child working for his father, though the shop has moved several times in the intervening years. In the summer, there is room for two or three mechanics on the porch out back. 
Kopp's moved to its current location in 1989, when Mr. Kuhn and his sister bought the business from their mother. (Mr. Kuhn bought out his sibling's interest in 1999.) In 2004, he bought the building for $801,000 with an adjustable-rate loan for $775,000, guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. By 2007, though, the rate had risen about three percentage points, to 10.75 percent. Moreover, Mr. Kuhn had grown tired of the paperwork that dogs an S.B.A. borrower. ''I just didn't want to dedicate hours of time putting together annual statements for them,'' he said.
So Mr. Kuhn refinanced with Washington Mutual (''I sent them a copy of our tax return, and that's all they wanted,'' he said), signing on to a seven-year loan for $825,000, with interest fixed at 6.18 percent.
The loan is amortized on a 25-year schedule, however, so when it comes due in fall 2014, Mr. Kuhn will have to make a balloon payment of $775,000. (Balloon payments, typically refinanced at term's end, are common in commercial real estate loans.) At the time of the loan, the store and its lot, the loan's collateral, were appraised at $1.3 million.
In the intervening years, Kopp's business has been battered. The effects of the recession have been intensified by online competition. Mr. Kuhn started noticing customers coming in with products bought elsewhere that they had browsed in his store.
''People come in with their smartphone and scan a bar code on a product that I have in my showroom, and what comes up on the phone is the three closest places and their price and then also what it is on Amazon,'' he said. Revenue fell from a high of $485,000 in 2008 to $393,000 the next year. Mr. Kuhn kept himself afloat by borrowing on his credit card, mostly for personal expenses but also to buy inventory.
To rebuild sales, Mr. Kuhn cut prices on accessories, which -- typical for a bike store -- have provided most of his profits, Mr. Kuhn said. This lifted revenue to $473,000 in 2010, but profits fell sharply -- Mr. Kuhn said his margin was just 1 percent last year, compared with 10 or 15 percent in 2008.
This has not greatly concerned him, he said: ''When I get the books done at the end of the year, if I break even -- if I don't show any loss, and I show a little profit -- as long as my guys are getting paid, all my bills are getting paid, and I'm getting paid, then I'm O.K.''
Mr. Kuhn adjusts his salary as necessary to keep the profit small. Also, he and his wife personally own the building and rent it to the store at a rate that exceeds their mortgage payment.
But the 12 percent interest rate on $100,000 of credit card debt has grated on him, as did the prospect of the balloon payment now three and a half years away. The solution, as he saw it, was a new 25-year loan that would consolidate the credit card debt with the $800,000 outstanding on the property and add $100,000 for working capital. He anticipated that the property's value had risen to $1.5 million, enough to support a $1 million loan.
THE OPTIONS Mr. Kuhn began approaching banks last fall. His own bank, Wachovia, wanted a debt-service coverage ratio -- a formula to determine whether a borrower could meet debt obligations that divides these into cash flow -- from 1.1 to 1.5. Kopp's Cycle could not pass that test. A loan officer at a second national institution, PNC Bank, also cited a poor coverage ratio and ''declining trends.'' A banker at a local institution did not return follow-up calls.
Next, Mr. Kuhn turned to a loan broker, paying him $1,000 upfront plus a promised 10 percent of the amount of the loan if approved. The broker put Mr. Kuhn in touch with Monument Bank, of Doylestown, Pa., which seemed a promising lead. But the bank's appraiser concluded that the real estate was worth less than $1 million -- not enough to serve as collateral for a million-dollar loan. The appraiser, he said, simply chose the midpoint between $300,000 and $1.7 million, the price at which other buildings in the area had sold. ''There are just not a lot of places to compare it to,'' Mr. Kuhn said.
In late February, Mr. Kuhn was considering turning to yet another bank, with another appraiser who might use different methods, but he did not want to pay for a second evaluation. He was also watching a property across the street from the shop that was for sale. ''The deal may close at $1.6 million, which would bode well for me,'' he said. ''I know in my heart that if I put an ad in the paper that this property is for sale for $1.5 million, I know I would sell it.''
Mr. Kuhn did not view a loan as essential to Kopp's survival. But he did worry about losing a longstanding safety net. ''I've always had a place where I could go if I needed any kind of money to do anything I want,'' he said. ''I've always had that cushion; I've always had that comfort, and at this point, I don't have that comfort. I'm very uncomfortable.''
WHAT OTHERS SAY Marc S. Sovelove, senior vice president for lending at Financial Resources Federal Credit Union in Bridgewater, N.J.: ''The $1 million loan request appears to be risky for any lender to do: the company's cash flow, collateral, industry trends, leverage, liquidity and profitability are all suspect. Mr. Kuhn's statement about showing a little profit may be acceptable to Mr. Kuhn, but it will not be to a lender.''
Barry Sloane, president and chief executive of Newtek Business Services, a small-business lender and back-office service provider based in New York: ''Washington Mutual was the devil -- an undisciplined lender providing finance to an undisciplined borrower. Washington Mutual made this borrower feel great in the beginning, but it's been taken over by the F.D.I.C. and JPMorgan, and he hasn't amortized his loan in four years.''
Jay Townley, a bicycle store consultant based in Lyndon Station, Wis.: ''I would suggest that Mr. Kuhn focus on the things he can actually do something about for obtaining a $1 million loan, such as developing a three-year business plan for Kopp's Cycle.''
THE RESULTS Offer your thoughts on Mr. Kuhn's predicament on the You're the Boss blog at nytimes.com/boss. Next week, on the blog and in this space, we will explain how things have worked out at Kopp's.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Kuhn, owner of Kopp's Cycles in Princeton, N.J., says it is America's oldest bicycle store. It opened in 1891. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTING GOODS STORES (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); RETAILERS (73%); RECESSION (73%); RELOCATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); WORKING CAPITAL (55%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



46 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Fell in May, but Makers Expect a Surge

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The steady recovery in auto sales stalled in May, as more consumers stayed away from new-car showrooms because of higher prices, shortages of some Japanese models, and concerns over the economy.
Automakers said that sales dropped 3.7 percent during the month compared with the period a year earlier. Analysts said the closely watched, seasonally adjusted annual selling rate in May was just 11.8 million vehicles, the lowest level reported since last September.
While May was the worst month for sales so far this year, auto executives said they still expected overall sales in the United States would exceed 13 million vehicles for the year. However, the slowdown could continue into the summer before the pace picks up again. ''We do believe the economy will continue its slow and gradual recovery,'' said Don Johnson, General Motors' vice president for United States sales operations. 
The hardest hit of the auto companies in May were Toyota and Honda, which said that production disruptions from the Japanese earthquake had caused shortages of some models at dealerships.
Because of Japanese automakers' setbacks, Detroit's Big Three -- G.M., Ford and Chrysler -- ranked first, second and third in terms of sales in the United States for the first time since 2006. Last year, Toyota had ranked third.
But Toyota's sales dropped 33 percent, allowing Chrysler, whose sales rose 10 percent, to climb into third place. G.M.'s sales slipped more than 1 percent during May, and Ford's were flat.
And for the first time, the Hyundai Kia Automotive Group, of South Korea, outsold Honda, which reported a 23 percent decline.
Tight inventories and an unusually low level of discounts combined to keep many consumers out of the market during the month. Analysts said it appeared that shoppers had decided to hold off in the hopes of finding better deals or a wider selection.
''Some buyers looked at the reports or maybe heard something about it and decided to wait instead of going down to the showroom and look,'' said Jeff Schuster, executive director of global forecasting at the research firm J. D. Power & Associates.
G.M. said its overall sales decreased by 1.2 percent, but that its passenger-car sales rose by 13 percent.
Ford reported a 0.3 percent decline, which excluded sales of the Volvo brand it no longer owns. The company said that small cars and crossover vehicles accounted for 27 percent of its volume, up from 19 percent a year ago.
Some carmakers bucked the trend and reported large gains. Kia's sales rose 53 percent, to a monthly record of 48,212, and Hyundai's were up 21 percent. The German carmaker Volkswagen said sales rose 24 percent and that May was the company's best month in nearly eight years.
But across the industry, sales were down after increasing about 20 percent from January through April.
Toyota and Honda are still trying to recover from the earthquake that struck Japan in March. Both companies have said they expect to resume normal production levels later this summer.
Toyota is ''well ahead of our recovery plans,'' said Robert S. Carter, the company's top United States sales executive.
While Toyota and Honda said their plants were building more vehicles, many of their most popular and most fuel-efficient models have become scarcer, causing consumers to look at other brands or put off shopping until inventories can be restocked.
''Toyota and Honda lost significant market share in May after cutting their incentives drastically to preserve inventories,'' Brian A. Johnson, an analyst with Barclays Capital, wrote in a report to clients. ''This strategy appears to have somewhat backfired on them, and Toyota had to raise incentives back midmonth in order to limit the damage.''
Incentive spending by automakers, which included cash-back rebates, subsidized financing rates and other deals, was down. TrueCar.com, a site that tracks vehicle sales and pricing, said incentives fell in May to the lowest level in nearly nine years.
At the same time, automakers have been raising prices to compensate for higher raw material costs; Ford this week announced the third price increase for its lineup this year. In addition, dealers have been able to charge more for many models with high fuel economy.
Both Ford and G.M. reported gains in sales of their smaller cars as consumers gravitated to vehicles with good fuel economy.
But auto companies do not expect consumers to pull back on spending as drastically as they did in 2008, when higher gas prices cut deeply into sales.
Since then, automakers have adjusted production to build more small cars and fewer pickup trucks and large sport utility vehicles. G.M. and Ford, in particular, have benefited from having more fuel-efficient cars.
''Customers increasingly are demanding new products that deliver compelling fuel economy,'' Ken Czubay, Ford's vice president for United States marketing, sales and service, said.
G.M.'s Chevrolet Malibu was the top-selling passenger car in the country in May, the first time in nearly three years that a Detroit model outsold perennial market leaders like the Toyota Camry, Honda Accord and Nissan Altima.
In fact, 8 of the top 10 vehicles sold in May were made by the Detroit companies. Despite a 15 percent decline in sales from a year earlier, Ford's F-Series pickup was still the best-selling model over all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: G.M. said its overall sales slid by 1.2 percent in May, but that passenger car sales rose 13 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Hyundai Elantra
Honda Accord CHARTS: How the Industry Fared: Most Popular Cars and Trucks
 How the Automakers Fared (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); HYUNDAI KIA AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (52%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



47 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By PETER J. HENNING, MICHAEL J. de la MERCED, MAC WILLIAM BISHOP, CHRIS V. NICHOLSON

 BODY:
SMALL VICTORY Even when a criminal defendant wins a case before the United States Supreme Court, there is no guarantee that the person will avoid a conviction and escape serving time in a federal prison, according to White Collar Watch. 
Two former chief executives, Conrad M. Black and Jeffrey K. Skilling, have learned that lesson the hard way because of an important legal doctrine called harmless error, which is frequently invoked to uphold convictions in jury trials. PETER J. HENNING
DEFECTIONS The exodus from UBS continued as Citigroup announced on Wednesday that it had hired two top investment bankers from the struggling Swiss institution.
The moves are the latest in a string of defections from UBS, which has lost senior executives as it grapples with limits on compensation. UBS, one of the largest Swiss banks, is still trying to rebuild itself after the financial crisis, during which it lost billions of dollars on soured mortgage bets, leaving itself open to poaching from stronger rivals. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
ON VIDEO Like die-hard fishermen, serious investors are all too familiar with ''the one that got away.''
David M. Rubenstein, left, co-founder of the Carlyle Group, the international private equity firm, talks to Andrew Ross Sorkin about the deal he missed. MAC WILLIAM BISHOP
TAKEOVER BID Schneider Electric of France announced a $2 billion bid on Wednesday for Telvent of Spain, a provider of information technology software and services for energy, transport and infrastructure systems, in the second deal by the French company this week.
Schneider offered $40 a share for Telvent, 36 percent above the company's average share price on Nasdaq during the last three months. Schneider plans to commence its tender offer in the middle of this month and close the deal in the third quarter. CHRIS V. NICHOLSON
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAKEOVERS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); TENDER OFFERS (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (69%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC SA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); CG (NASDAQ) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); SU (PAR) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS335313 SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3613 SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS (54%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



48 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Playing With Matches on the Debt: With Democratic help, Republicans endanger the economy with their credit-limit game

 BODY:
Just ignore Tuesday's vote against raising the debt ceiling, House Republican leaders whispered to Wall Street. We didn't really vote against it, members suggested; we just sent another of our endless symbolic messages, pretending to take the nation's credit to the brink of collapse in order to extract the maximum concessions from President Obama. 
Once he caves, members said, the debt limit will be raised and the credit scare will end. And the business world apparently got the message. It's just a said a leader of the United States Chamber of Commerce, and Wall Street is in on it. Not everyone found it funny.
No matter how they tried to spin it, 318 House members actually voted against paying the country's bills and keeping the promise made to federal bondholders. That's an incredibly dangerous message to send in a softening global economy. Among the jokesters were 236 Republicans playing the politics of extortion, and 82 feckless Democrats who fret that Republicans could transform a courageous vote into a foul-smelling advertisement.
The games that now pass for governing in an increasingly embarrassing 112th Congress are menacing the nation's future. It was bad enough when Republicans threatened to shut down the government to achieve their extreme and extremely misguided spending cuts, but that threat would have caused temporary damage. The debt limit is something else altogether. If the global credit markets decide that the debt of the United States will regularly be held hostage to ideological demands, it could cause significant harm to investment in long-term bonds and other obligations. That, in turn, could damage domestic credit markets and easily spark another recession.
To prevent this from happening, 114 Democrats in April asked for a ''clean'' vote without conditions. But Republicans were not about to set their hostage free. Knowing that the clean vote would not pass -- and imposing a two-thirds majority requirement to ensure its failure -- House Republicans gave the Democrats what they requested. They then voted it down, sending their reckless message to the world.
But there was no excuse for so many Democrats to go along with that message, including the leadership. Steny Hoyer, the minority whip, urged his members to vote no so they would not ''subject themselves to a political 30-second ad attack'' with all Republicans voting no. Apparently Mr. Hoyer did not trust voters to understand what a dangerous and dishonest game the Republicans are playing.
The exercise has prompted the White House to convene talks to discuss the Republicans' scattershot demands, which have ranged from trillions in spending cuts to the outright dismantling of vital safety-net programs like Medicare and Medicaid. Democrats have hoped to get an increase in revenues out of any deal, but House Republican leaders emerged from a White House meeting on Wednesday spouting the usual discredited claims that higher taxes on the rich would impede job growth.
What Republicans seem unwilling to acknowledge is that the debt-limit debate is not about future spending. It is about paying for a deficit already incurred because of two wars and tax cuts approved by both Republicans and Democrats at the behest of a Republican president. Tuesday's vote was a chance to do the right thing and educate the public on why it was necessary. Instead, too many lawmakers walked away from the truth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXTORTION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); MEDICARE (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); MEDICAID (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: STENY HOYER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



49 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: In Wake of Natural Disasters, Insurers Brace for Big Losses

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The devastation from the natural disasters that have ripped through parts of the country this year has been starkly evident. Hundreds of people have died and thousands of houses have been shattered in a deadly string of tornadoes. Millions of acres of farms were inundated and businesses shut down by flooding along the Mississippi River.
Now, as homes are repaired, fields are pumped and factories are cleaned out, the damage assessments will mount, and another measure of the impact will come into clearer focus: the cost to insurance companies.
Based on nearly two dozen interviews with farmers, business owners, analysts and government officials, private insurance companies are likely to experience at least $10 billion in insured losses this year, mostly associated with the tornadoes and the flooding along the Mississippi, based on property damage, lost inventory, business interruption and disrupted crop plantings. 
Insurance industry and risk analysis experts arrived at their projections by adding median damage estimates for the worst of the tornadoes so far. The tally will rise when private-sector insurance flood and crop claims associated with the Mississippi River flooding are tacked on and hundreds of other tornadoes and severe winter weather events are factored in.
''Natural catastrophe losses in the United States are likely to be well over $10 billion by the end of 2011,'' said David Smith, the senior vice president of Eqecat Inc., a catastrophe risk modeling firm. And Robert P. Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute, said that just one ''relatively minor'' hurricane this year could push the total private insurance catastrophe losses in 2011 above the $13.6 billion paid out in 2010.
Whatever the numbers prove to be, analysts acknowledge that the geographic and economic range of damage is vast. Farmland is still submerged, meaning farmers must wait until the water fully recedes to determine whether the soil is fit to replant. Damage assessment teams are still fanning out in tornado zones, surveying the destruction.
And there is also uncertainty about what insurance policies will cover, a question recently on the mind of Austin Golding, a 25-year-old manager in his family's barge business in Vicksburg, Miss. Like other business owners along the Mississippi, Mr. Golding took pre-emptive measures when the river started to rise, moving equipment and staff members to portable trailers on higher ground and putting the main office on blocks, a costly operation that he said saved the insured building from water damage.
''I think we are probably going to try to recoup what we spent in trying to avoid a total replacement'' of the building, Mr. Golding said. He added that they would at least try to negotiate a decrease in the premium.
The Mississippi River areas that were flooded include two million to more than three million acres of farmland and pasture, said Michael Cordonnier, a consultant with the Soybean and Corn Advisor, an information service for the commodity industry. Houses, ports, casinos, hotels, grain elevators, infrastructure, fisheries and other facilities are among the sources expected to generate claims from damages.
In addition to the flooding, some of the worst tornadoes in decades have struck this year. As of Wednesday, there have been at least 518 fatalities from tornadoes in the United States, just behind the 519 in 1953, the highest number since official record-keeping started in 1950, said Gregory Carbin, a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration meteorologist.
Just the tornadoes that affected Alabama and neighboring states in the last week of April, and Joplin, Mo., in May, could produce insured losses of $4.5 billion to $8 billion, said Mr. Hartwig of the insurance institute. Eqecat Inc. estimated insured losses at $2 billion to $5 billion in the April week and $1 billion to $3 billion for Joplin. AIR Worldwide, a risk modeling and consulting firm, said it estimated $3.7 billion to $5.5 billion in insured losses for tornadoes and other severe weather events, including Alabama's, in just one week: April 22 to 28.
Catastrophes are defined in the industry as any single event with $25 million or more in insured losses. The biggest catastrophe to hit the industry's insurers was Hurricane Katrina, which generated $45 billion, adjusted for inflation, in insured losses for houses, businesses and vehicles.
While many in the industry, and those clearing out their homes or pumping out businesses, say it is too early to put a figure on the damage, private insurance companies will not be alone in bearing the cost.
The government will cover most of the losses related to flooding for insured homes and small businesses through the National Flood Insurance Program. Officials said the flood insurance program was already $17.7 billion in debt to the Treasury Department, mostly because of Katrina. They added, however, that the program still had $668 million in cash reserves as of April 30 and the ability to borrow nearly $3 billion more from the department if needed to cover this year's claims.
Farmers Insurance, which is one of at least 90 private insurance companies that pays out the flood claims losses using the flood insurance program's funds, has received about 300 claims for flood losses as of May 30, said Jeffery W. Hinesly, a manager of the program for the company. He said that each claim averaged $20,000 to $30,000 for property damage. ''I do not expect much more than the 300 because many do not own flood insurance,'' he said. The major loss exposure that private insurance companies will have using their own funds for flood losses is for automobile insurance, which is not covered by the flood insurance program, he added.
For crop insurance, the government's Risk Management Agency shares the payments for losses with the 15 private insurance companies that it regulates. William J. Murphy, the administrator of the agency, said he expected crop-related losses from Missouri south through the Mississippi River basin to be in the $700 million to $800 million range. The amount paid by the private companies depends on individual contracts with farmers, but it is expected to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
''We are waiting to see the extent of the losses down there,'' Mr. Murphy said.
Meanwhile, along the river and in tornado-wrenched towns, residents, farmers and business owners are struggling to adapt.
Bobby W. Armstrong, 79, and his wife, Barbara, moved into a Days Inn in Joplin after their three-bedroom home was damaged, but they considered themselves fortunate that it was not destroyed.
''We heard sirens going and so we went into the hallways and sat down next to the linen closet and huddled up there on the floor,'' said Mr. Armstrong, a Marine Corps veteran. He said a ''wild guess'' was that the house needed a new roof, siding, gutters and other repairs, but they had yet to see a claims adjuster.
''We have turned in the report on it, and it will take time before they get out,'' he said.
Farmers, too, must wait, and with commodity prices at recent highs, the delays can be costly. The floods wiped out investments in fertilizer, labor and seeds. Crop insurance might cover only 50 to 75 percent of the value, depending on average historical yields. In addition, there are seasonal issues. It is too late to replant corn, but soybeans may still take root if the topsoil is in shape.
John Michael Pillow, a 41-year-old farmer in Yazoo County, Miss., watched in dismay when the river spilled over onto his insured farmland, destroying about 3,000 of the 4,000 acres of corn he had already planted.
''I am really hoping we can plant soybeans,'' he added, ''so we will be able to get out of this year without a complete loss.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Floodwaters in May swamped the farmland around Yazoo City, Miss. Farmers must wait until the water fully recedes before deciding whether to replant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (94%); NATURAL DISASTERS (92%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (90%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); WEATHER (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (77%); RIVERS (77%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); INSURANCE POLICIES (75%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



50 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for May Show an Entrenched Slowdown

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The nation's private companies hired far fewer workers than expected in May and output in the manufacturing sector slowed to its lowest level since 2009, according to new reports, raising concerns that the recovery was running out of steam.
Economists cut their forecasts for Friday's closely watched United States payrolls report after private-sector job growth tumbled to just 38,000, its lowest level in eight months. 
Losses in stocks and the value of the dollar accelerated after the Institute for Supply Management said its index of national factory activity fell to 53.5 in May from 60.4 the month before.
The reading missed economists' expectations for 57.7.
New orders, a barometer of demand ahead, fell to 51.0 from 61.7 in April, the lowest since June 2009.
''One has to wonder whether the U.S. recovery is starting to stumble,'' said Greg Salvaggio, vice president for trading at Tempus Consulting in Washington. ''It draws a big bull's-eye on Friday's payrolls report.''
The ADP Employment Services report on private sector hiring and the Institute for Supply Management's data were the latest signals that economic growth remained sluggish in the second quarter after hitting a soft patch in the first months of the year.
Data last month showed the economy grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter, softer than analysts had anticipated.
''This only adds fuel to the argument that the slowdown story is here in the U.S.,'' said Tom Porcelli, chief United States economist at RBC Capital Markets in New York.
''This is exactly what we do not want when other significant data shows things are slowing down as well.''
The ADP report showed private employers added 38,000 jobs last month, falling from a downwardly revised 177,000 in April and well short of expectations for 175,000. It was the lowest level since September 2010.
Credit Suisse lowered its estimate for Friday's employment number to 120,000 from its previous forecast of 185,000 and its private payroll estimate to 135,000 from 200,000.
ADP's number has been weaker than the government's private payrolls figure for 12 of the last 14 months, making Friday's government numbers likely to come in above ADP's report, Credit Suisse said.
The Labor Department report is expected to show a rise in overall nonfarm payrolls of 180,000 in May, slowing down from a gain of 244,000 the month before, according a Reuters poll. Private payrolls are expected to come in at 205,000. The ADP report is jointly developed with Macroeconomic Advisers, whose chairman said he expected Friday's figure to disappoint.
Stocks extended losses after the I.S.M. survey with the Dow Jones industrial average down nearly 1 percent. The dollar hit a new low against the Swiss franc.
The yield on benchmark 10-year Treasury debt slipped to its lowest level since early December.
A separate report showed the number of planned layoffs at American firms rose modestly in May with the government and nonprofit sectors making up a large portion of the cuts.
Employers announced 37,135 planned job cuts last month, up 1.8 percent from 36,490 in April, according to a report from the consultants Challenger, Gray & Christmas.
The housing market, meanwhile, continued to struggle as a report from an industry group showed applications for home mortgages fell last week, pulled lower by a decline in refinancing demand.
The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, fell 4 percent in the week ended May 27.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (84%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (84%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



51 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; AT HOME WITH KELLY COYNE AND ERIK KNUTZEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1865 words

HEADLINE: Living Large, Off The Land

BYLINE: By MICHAEL TORTORELLO

 BODY:
Los Angeles
KELLY COYNE and Erik Knutzen do not subsist on a diet of lentils and gloom. Yes, the Los Angeles couple proselytize for a more self-reliant household in their new book, ''Making It: Radical Home Ec for a Post-Consumer World,'' just published by Rodale. And to that end, they include in it illustrated directions for making things like homemade dog food and washable sanitary napkins.
Ms. Coyne sewed one of the latter by making a pad out of her husband's old flannel shirt. Or, rather, Mr. Knutzen stitched it. ''I'm a horrible sewer,'' Ms. Coyne said. ''Poor Erik.''
But the point is never ''self-deprivation in the name of bettering the world,'' she said. Like ''when you go to a potluck where people have concerns about some issue or another.'' 
''And because of those concerns,'' she added, ''they feel obligated to eat a pure vegan diet -- not that there's anything wrong with that -- and they talk about the depressing End Times to come. And they serve up a communal meal of lentils. That's 'lentils and gloom.' ''
At a recent Sunday brunch, Ms. Coyne, 43, and Mr. Knutzen, 46, were noshing on happier fare: a loaf of freshly baked levain with a spread of tangy harissa. ''It's so easy to make,'' she said. ''Ancho peppers, garlic and oil,'' plus a shake of sea salt.
''And it's in the book,'' Mr. Knutzen added wryly.
Promoting a do-it-yourself revolution -- in the book and on their blog, Root Simple (rootsimple.com) -- is an unusual occupation. With their olive oil lamps (see page 8 in the book), dental twigs (page 12) and dry toilets (page 237), the couple can seem like historical re-enactors. Or prisoners of ''Frontier House'' on PBS.
Their 1,000-square-foot bungalow in the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles, on second thought, might be a junkyard Biosphere2, an experiment in the future of sustainable homemaking. This is the way we all could live if we weren't working 50 hours a week, sitting in traffic on the way to the mega-mart, burning gasoline at $4 a gallon.
Just a few years ago, Ms. Coyne and Mr. Knutzen were trapped in the car themselves (a 1994 Nissan Sentra), commuting to jobs. Mr. Knutzen was a researcher and writer at the Center for Land Use Interpretation, a semisubversive think tank. Ms. Coyne worked nearby as the administrative director of the Museum of Jurassic Technology, a meta-museum filled with imaginary natural history and assorted magic.
But the drive to the Palms district of Los Angeles, an hour each way on a typical day, was a haul. ''Toward the end, I was biking nine miles to the center,'' Mr. Knutzen said.
''And it was faster,'' Ms. Coyne said. ''That's one thing I don't miss. We are both old-time, crunchy slackers, and we've tried our whole lives not to have office jobs.''
''I don't like working for other people,'' Mr. Knutzen said.
''That's why we went to grad school so long,'' Ms. Coyne said. ''To avoid employment. And then we slid from grad school into these alternative jobs in informal spaces. And we graduated from those to living by our wits.''
The jobs Ms. Coyne and Mr. Knutzen remember fondly; grad school they do not. The couple met at the University of California, San Diego, where Ms. Coyne had wandered into the dense thickets of conceptual art.
''By the time I graduated, I didn't have any use for it anymore,'' she said. ''A graduate degree in art is a good way to get anyone to stop making art.''
Mr. Knutzen was enrolled in a program called Theoretical and Experimental Studies in Music. However ponderous that sounds, the music was even worse. ''I don't do music anymore,'' he said. ''I leave it to the professionals.''
Outside their apartment in San Diego, the couple started growing tomatoes in a container. Unlike their studies, this act was down-to-earth and fruitful, in a literal sense. According to David Wilson, 65, the director of the Museum of Jurassic Technology, Ms. Coyne and Mr. Knutzen had found a new philosophy to replace their academic training.
''Both Kelly and Erik practice what they call amateurism,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''They would talk quite a bit about the way in which amateur efforts are viewed in this culture, as a pejorative term.''
The couple's homestead is just such a project, down to its foundation. The 1920 house sits on a steep hillside on the fringe of Silver Lake. Ms. Coyne calls the area HaFo SaFo, after a revolving podiatrist's sign (a cartoon of a happy foot and a sad foot) on nearby Sunset Boulevard.
''We bought it in 1998 for $198,000,'' Mr. Knutzen said.
''It was worth half that,'' Ms. Coyne said.
By the time they closed, the little clapboard box was already sliding, ''California-style,'' downhill. For $80,000, contractors injected two truckloads of concrete under the house. Now, pylons connect the home to the bedrock.
''We basically have the Hoover Dam now,'' Mr. Knutzen said.
''When the Big One comes, our house will stand,'' Ms. Coyne said.
Nature itself seems to punish the amateur. Take the arbor over the back patio, which Ms. Coyne calls ''the masculinity pavilion,'' in honor of her husband's feats of carpentry. As they finished a pot of coffee after brunch, the couple should have been sitting in the shade of their grapevines. But a pest (the glassy-winged sharpshooter) has infected the grapes with a blight called Pierce's disease. Now, the vines are dying.
Writing on the couple's blog, Mr. Knutzen finds a consolation for such failures in ''The Odyssey'': ''I will stay with it and endure through suffering hardships,'' Odysseus proclaims. ''But once the heaving sea has shaken my raft to pieces, then I will swim.''
With the noonday sun glaring overhead, Ms. Coyne waxed less profound: ''All I wanted was a shady place to sit.''
MS. COYNE and Mr. Knutzen have a problem with taking work home. Their home is their work and they're always there.
The dishwasher runs three times a day. Mr. Knutzen has been in a baking frenzy while he masters a no-knead sourdough loaf. He recently helped found the Los Angeles Bread Bakers with the aim of fabricating wood-fired ovens in community gardens.
Ms. Coyne, meanwhile, has started making her own cleaning formulas, body products and natural medicines, with materials from the garden.
''Sometimes it's actually faster to make your own product than to buy it,'' she said. An all-purpose household cleanser (page 70) is no more complicated than mixing in a bottle equal parts vinegar and water, plus a squirt of soap to cut through grease.
Basically, she said, ''I don't like shopping.''
And that leaves the couple at home. ''You can see why pioneers killed each other,'' she said. ''When they were building a house in the middle of the prairie and they had no one else to talk to. And nothing to do but survival activities.''
Until recently, their avocation would have been called urban homesteading. They harvested the term for the title of their first book, ''The Urban Homestead: Your Guide to Self-Sufficient Living in the Heart of the City'' (Process Media: 2008).
But in October of last year, a Pasadena farmstead registered the phrase with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. And in February, the couple's first publisher, and 16 other parties, received legal notice that they would have to stop using the words ''urban homestead'' and ''urban homesteading'' in their books and on their blog.
The couple and Process Media filed a trademark appeal in April, with the help of the Electronic Frontier Foundation. But the dispute captures something about the conflicted nature of the movement known as ... well, whatever it's called now.
On one hand, Ms. Coyne said, ''the bookshelves are crowded with these kinds of titles,'' rapturous accounts of how to tend city chickens, city goats (probably city yaks, too). On the other hand, it's possible to walk for hours across Los Angeles and see no sign of a food garden beyond a lonely lemon tree.
''There's a lot of hype,'' Ms. Coyne said.
''A lot of hype,'' Mr. Knutzen said, nodding.
Mr. Knutzen sometimes finds himself flipping through an old copy of ''The Whole Earth Catalog'' or ''The Integral Urban House,'' classic D.I.Y. guides from the 1970s. And he wonders: Why didn't the movement stick?
Ms. Coyne trawls ''ancient home-economics books, from the 1880s to 1920 or so,'' she said, looking for clues about how women accomplished tasks like conditioning their hair before the chemical age. Indeed, these books have been lecturing and hectoring Americans forever, said Sarah A. Leavitt, 40, a curator at the National Building Museum and the author of ''From Catharine Beecher to Martha Stewart: A Cultural History of Domestic Advice.''
''Every generation would say, 'These people don't have the connection to the past that our grandmothers had,' '' Ms. Leavitt said. ''But people have been saying that since the 1840s.''
Over the centuries, she said, the counsel is often the same: homemakers should embrace simplicity, thrift, cleanliness, independence. But the rationale changes with the mood of the times. In the mid-1800s, Ms. Leavitt said, good housekeeping was a Christian virtue; a few decades later, it was sanitary and scientific. During the immigrant boom of the early 20th century, the well-made home was a testament to nativist fervor.
It would be easy to read these ''domestic fantasies'' with a cynical eye. But then, where you get your food and how you clean your home has always been about something more, Ms. Leavitt said. The question is, ''What kind of person do you want to be?''
Ms. Coyne wouldn't disagree. She doesn't care to fret about national politics, peak oil or the coming zombie apocalypse. ''Within our control,'' she said, ''is what goes in the house, in the backyard, in the neighborhood.''
Without the obligations of a day job, Mr. Knutzen has made himself a fixture at community meetings and municipal hearings. He recently helped win a $350,000 state-sponsored Safe Routes to School grant for the neighborhood elementary school, to encourage walking and biking. This kind of unglamorous activism makes him ''tremendously happy,'' he said.
When he is in a particularly expansive mood, he quotes the stoic philosophers. ''As within, so without,'' he said, citing Hermes Trismegistus. The maxim appears in plainer form on the Root Simple blog: ''All change begins at home.''
Mr. Knutzen walked in front of the big picture window in the living room and hoisted his thyrsus.
His what?
''It's carried by the maenads,'' he said, holding out a four-foot-long mace.
The who?
The followers of Dionysus in the procession, he said. Mr. Knutzen had seen an image of a thyrsus in a frieze at the J. Paul Getty Museum. ''It's a fennel stalk with a pine cone on top.''
''We realized that because of our Mediterranean climate -- --,'' Ms. Coyne said.
''We can source this locally,'' Mr. Knutzen continued. The fennel was growing right in the backyard.
''I've never seen Erik so happy as when he made his own thyrsus,'' Ms. Coyne said.
''It's good to carry around your masculinity pavilion,'' Mr. Knutzen said. ''I considered mass-marketing it to Target and Wal-Mart.''
Some day the American consumer may be able to find a scepter next to the beer nuts in the bacchanalia aisle. For now, if you want a thyrsus at home, you'll have to make it yourself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SIMPLIFIED: Erik Knutzen and Kelly Coyne (with flax harvest) at their home. (D1)
SUSTAINABLE: Clockwise, from top right, Erik Knutzen and Kelly Coyne in their bungalow's breakfast nook
homemade grapefruit jam
the living room
Mr. Knutzen in his bee suit in the backyard
dried chamomile being preserved in jars.
HOMESTEADING: Right, lighting an olive oil lamp
far right, a solar dehydrator on the roof of the garage, viewed from the front yard
 below, chickens wandering in the backyard. ''I don't like shopping,'' Ms. Coyne said of the couple's do-it-ourselves ethos. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURE JOLIET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OILS & FATS (78%); WRITERS (77%); NUTRITION (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); MEAT FREE DIETS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



52 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: A Richer Season on Broadway

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Broadway had another billion-dollar season between late May 2010 and Sunday, with shows grossing $1.08 billion - 5.9 percent more than the total for the 2009-10 season - and playing to more than 12.5 million people, according to the Broadway League, the trade group for theater owners and producers. That 2010-11 season attendance figure also reflects an increase of 5.4 percent over the previous season. 
Musicals and plays on Broadway have proved to be hardy perennials on the economic landscape for the entertainment industry, with shows steadily filling the sector's 40 theaters in Manhattan. While commercial hits are something of a rarity - only 25 to 30 percent of new shows usually turn a profit - long-running blockbusters like ''Wicked'' and ''The Lion King'' have become reliable money-makers even in bad weeks for other shows, and new additions like ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark'' and ''The Book of Mormon'' have been selling strongly.
''The Book of Mormon'' is proving to be a particularly intensifying hit: The critically acclaimed musical has broken the Eugene O'Neill Theater's house record every week since mid-April. Last week, for eight performances covering May 24-29, ''Mormon'' set its latest record of $1.169 million, or 119 percent of the maximum possible gross (due to sales of premium-price tickets, which are common for commercial productions).
The financial success of ''Mormon'' is also noteworthy because of the relatively small number of seats on sale at the O'Neill. It has 1,066 seats, compared to the largest theater on Broadway, the Foxwoods, which lists 1,930 seats and where ''Spider-Man'' grossed $1.324 million last week. The producers of ''Mormon'' have said that they chose the O'Neill, which has traditionally been more of a playhouse than a theater for big-budget musicals, because of its relatively intimate size and atmospherics.
Over all last week, Broadway plays and musicals grossed a total of $23.7 million, compared to $24.9 million for the previous week.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



53 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: The Prom Dress Moves Into the Designer Leagues

BYLINE: By MARISA MELTZER

 BODY:
LAST year, as a junior at the Latin School in Chicago, Colby Jordan wore a black silk gown designed by John Galliano with matching Dior heels to prom. ''This year I'm switching gears,'' she said on the phone from her home recently. ''I'm doing a chartreuse Roland Mouret gown with purple snakeskin YSL Tribute sandals.''
As at the Oscars, the school has a tradition of students changing outfits for after-parties, so Ms. Jordan, 18, is also considering a white Herve Leger dress with silver heels by Azzedine Alaia bought during Paris Fashion Week last March, plus jewelry from a ''dear friend,'' the New York designer Eddie Borgo, who lent her pieces when she attended the Met Ball earlier this month.
While Ms. Jordan is a rare, jet-set teenager attending such exclusive events, she's not the only one buying a designer dress, often costing in the mid-three figures or higher, for prom night. 
Goodbye, Gunne Sax! So long, Zum Zum! Caroline and Philippa McCully, 18, identical twin sisters who grew up shuttling between Lattingtown, N.Y., and the Upper East Side of Manhattan, are also wearing Yves Saint Laurent Tribute sandals to their prom at Choate Rosemary Hall in Wallingford, Conn. They both ordered custom dresses online from Maria Lucia Hohan, costing $709 and $860 respectively and paid for by their father. ''I generally find what fits me and then speak to my dad,'' Philippa McCully said.
An informal survey of high school boys found them oblivious to the designer trend, renting tuxes from local shops as they have for generations. ''The only guys who are wearing anything designer are getting it from their father's closet,'' Caroline McCully said.
But despite the recession, and perhaps influenced by shows like ''Gossip Girl'' that incorporate designer clothes into their story lines, some young women say they are enjoying the full-service experience of luxury shopping as part of prom night, like a stretch limo.
Sara Weiss, a senior at Pope High School in Marietta, Ga., who describes herself as a ''total fashionista,'' went to Neiman Marcus to buy her dress, where ''they are so accommodating,'' she said. ''They bring you water, there's space in the dressing room, it's just a nice experience.'' She chose a white Sue Wong costing $530 that she plans to wear to sorority formals at college next year.
Midprice junior-size prom dresses are not languishing on the racks. Danielle Gordon, 18, a senior at Fontbonne Hall Academy in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, said that her classmates would likely be wearing dresses by Jovani, Sherri Hill, BCBG, Faviana, La Femme and Jessica McClintock. She instead chose a short royal blue dress from Notte by Marchesa for $750. ''My parents pretty much said to get whatever dress I liked,'' she said. When asked if she would wear the Marchesa again, Ms. Gordon, sounding doubtful, said she would consider wearing it to a wedding.
And Lily Cohen, a senior at Ethical Culture Fieldston School in the Bronx, dismissed what she called the ''traditional'' dress. ''Those brands are more for bat mitzvahs,'' she said. ''At prom you're graduating to a more sophisticated look.'' Ms. Cohen, who will wear a simple red Moschino cocktail dress whose price she preferred not to disclose, was featured in this year's Seventeen magazine prom issue. ''I was wearing this crazy, puffy, polka-dotted sequin thing,'' she said. ''That was my taste of that kind of prom dress, and that was enough.''
For those without the means (or generous parents) for such frocks, the online service Rent the Runway, which rents designer dresses for a period of four days for 10 to 15 percent of the retail price, has taken aim at high school girls attending prom, which Jennifer Fleiss, a founder of the company, called ''the first magical Cinderella-evening moment.''
Another founder, Jennifer Hyman, described wearing a designer dress to prom as a kind of sartorial gateway drug, priming a customer for the future moment when she is able to afford high-end brands. ''It's often your first taste,'' said Ms. Hyman, who wore a Carmen Marc Valvo to her own prom (New Rochelle High School, 1998). ''You will remember that brand you wore to prom and will want to have that brand in your closet.''
She added that designer prom style is regional, with Proenza Schouler, Prabal Gurung and Narciso Rodriguez popular among the New York City high school set, and Badgley Mischka and Temperley London in demand elsewhere.
Quincy Childs, who is 16 and attends the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., used Rent the Runway to find a pink strapless Matthew Williamson dress with a sweetheart neckline and cinched waist that retailed for $2,500, which she is renting for $250. ''I'm more excited about getting ready for prom than prom itself,'' she said.
Ms. Childs remembered when the dress came out in 2008. ''I think four different celebs wore it in 'Who Wore It Best,' '' she said, referring to a popular Us magazine column comparing celebrities wearing the same outfit.
Ms. Weiss of Pope High School also said she had been influenced by the infiltration of fashion into popular culture. ''I'm a total stalker of celebrities online, and will see what they wear to red carpet events,'' she said. ''I love Vogue, I go through it every month, and I watch advice Rachel Zoe gives on her show and use it for myself.''
According to Ms. Hyman of Rent the Runway, ''A 13-year-old knows about Louboutin shoes because she watches Kim Kardashian on TV and wants a piece of that lifestyle.''
Jane Keltner de Valle, the senior fashion news director at Teen Vogue, which showed Jill Stuart, D&G and Vera Wang Lavender Label among other designer lines for its annual prom issue, has noticed a change from decades past (purely as an observer: ''I thought it was uncool at the time,'' she said of her own prom). ''There were no Alexander Wangs then,'' Ms. Keltner de Valle said. ''Now there are all these designers catering to the aesthetics of teenagers. That has gotten girls more interested in fashion. Every girl might not be wearing a Miu Miu dress to prom, but there is a shift towards more fashion-forward dressing in general.''
Kristin Prim, the 17-year-old founder of Prim Magazine, whose agents and parents did not want her to reveal her high school, thinks the trend is harmless. ''No one is buying Chanel couture who would normally shop at J. Crew,'' she said. (Ms. Prim was considering a dress from Versace's fall 2010 collection to wear to prom this year, but has to skip the dance for work commitments.)
But the pressure to wear a designer has predictably caused anxiety at some high schools.
Hazel Cills is a junior at Moorestown High School in New Jersey, where she expected most students would wear BCBG, Jessica McClintock and Betsey Johnson dresses to prom earlier this month. ''When I realized there was a Facebook group for prom dresses that was up, I posted a picture of an Alexander McQueen dress as a joke,'' Ms. Cills wrote in an e-mail. ''A few days later, girls were coming up to me in the hallway actually looking a bit worried, and kept asking me if I was really wearing the dress. I just laughed at them and told them it was a joke, assuring them I was not going to prom and that I couldn't afford that dress even if I wanted to.
''But there were definitely some girls who took me seriously and freaked out about the fact that they weren't wearing McQueen dresses.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DRESS-UP: Far left, Sara Weiss, 18, in her Sue Wong-designed prom dress, at home in Georgia. Left, Colby Jordan, 18, wore this Roland Mouret gown to her senior prom at the Latin School of Chicago. Above, Danielle Gordon, 18, a senior in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, in her prom dress from Notte by Marchesa. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); TRENDS (76%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (73%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (71%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (66%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



54 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Governor Nominates Developer to Lead Thruway Authority

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has nominated a wealthy real estate developer to be chairman of the New York State Thruway Authority, which oversees the Thruway and the state's 524-mile canal system.
The nominee, Howard P. Milstein, a banker and real estate developer, has been a generous campaign donor to Mr. Cuomo and served on his transition team.
In a break with usual practice, the Cuomo administration did not issue a news release announcing the nomination, which was reported by The Buffalo News on Tuesday. 
Asked on Wednesday about possible entanglements with Mr. Milstein's business interests, Mr. Cuomo said he was not concerned. ''I don't know specifically his real estate holdings, but of course if there was ever a conflict of interest between his private holdings and his public duty, that would be handled appropriately,'' the governor said.
A good-government group urged Mr. Milstein to exercise caution in ensuring that there is no overlap between his real estate interests and the economic development work overseen by the Thruway Authority and its subsidiary, the New York State Canal Corporation.
''Being a wealthy businessman doesn't disqualify him from being chairman of the Thruway Authority,'' said Russ Haven, the legislative counsel for the New York Public Interest Research Group. ''But given that he has substantial and ongoing business interests, it's important that he avoid not only actual conflicts, but even the appearance of conflicts of interest.''
Mr. Milstein, 60, is the chairman and chief executive of Emigrant Savings Bank, based in New York City. He also presides, with his brother, Edward, over a real estate empire of office towers and residential buildings in Manhattan that was built up by their father, Paul Milstein, who died last year, and their uncle, Seymour Milstein.
Howard Milstein and his brother have also bought hundreds of parcels in downtown Niagara Falls over the past decade. Forbes magazine last year estimated the family's worth at $3.8 billion.
Mr. Cuomo cited Mr. Milstein's business background as a crucial asset as the Thruway Authority seeks financing for future infrastructure projects. The position of authority chairman is unpaid.
''He'll bring a professionalism and a business mentality and acumen that I think is very helpful in government,'' the governor said in a news briefing on Wednesday. ''Having a private-sector businessman who's a success in real estate and finance makes total sense for the Thruway Authority.''
Mr. Milstein served on Mr. Cuomo's transition committee for economic development and labor; his wife, Abby S. Milstein, a lawyer, served on the governors' health transition committee. Howard and Abby Milstein have given at least $100,000 to Mr. Cuomo's campaign funds in recent years, according to campaign finance records.
''He's a philanthropist,'' Mr. Cuomo said when asked if Mr. Milstein's financial support had anything to do with his nomination.
Mr. Milstein did not return a telephone call seeking comment.
Mr. Milstein would succeed John L. Buono, a former county executive and community college president, named chairman of the Thruway Authority by Gov. George E. Pataki.
During the Pataki administration, the Canal Corporation was accused of favoritism for awarding exclusive development rights along a portion of the Erie Canal for only $30,000. It later rescinded the contract.
''There's a bad history here,'' a former assemblyman, Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat who held hearings to bring to light details about the contract, said when asked about Mr. Milstein's nomination.
''On the other hand,'' Mr. Brodsky said of Mr. Milstein, ''he's a smart and successful businessman, and as long as he's reasonably sensitive to potential difficulties, then I don't see his profession as being a problem.''
Mr. Cuomo submitted Mr. Milstein's nomination to the State Senate on May 9. A week later, he publicly highlighted 17 other appointments and nominations, many to lesser posts. Mr. Milstein's nomination was not included.
A spokesman for the governor, Josh Vlasto, said there was no particular reason that the nomination was not highlighted. ''There is no need for a press release to make it public,'' he said, because ''there is a full-blown Senate confirmation process.''
Senator Charles J. Fuschillo Jr., a Nassau County Republican and chairman of the Senate Transportation Committee, said it would consider the nomination before the scheduled end of the legislative session on June 20.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Howard P. Milstein 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (68%); EMIGRANT SAVINGS BANK (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



55 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Hooked on Meat

BYLINE: By MARK BITTMAN. 
Gail Collins is on book leave.

 BODY:
KAS, TURKEY - I sit on this peaceful peninsula marveling at how long it's been since Odysseus sailed the eastern Mediterranean. Then I realize that those millennia are nothing compared with how long our species might take to adapt to the inexorable spread of the American diet.
Once, we had to combine hunting skills and luck to eat meat, which could supply then-rare nutrients in large quantities. This progressed - or at least moved on - to a stage where a family could raise an annual pig and maybe keep a cow and some chickens. Quite suddenly (this development is no more than 50 years old, even in America), we can drive to our nearest burger shop and scarf down a patty - or two! - at will. 
Because evolution is a slow process, this revolutionary change has had zero impact on the primal urge that screams, ''Listen, dummy, if you can find meat you'd better eat it, because who knows when you'll eat it again!'' At some point our bodies may adapt to consuming unlimited quantities of meat or - a better alternative - our minds will crave less. Right now, primal urge and modern availability form a deadly combo.
We're crack addicts with a steady supply. Beyond instinct and availability, there's a third factor: marketing. When you add ''It's what's for dinner'' to the equation, you have a powerful combination: biology, economics and propaganda all pushing us in the same direction.
Those who were born in mid-to-late 20th century America take this for granted; I grew up eating meat seven days a week, usually for lunch and dinner, sometimes for breakfast, too. But the phenomenon is global: there's more than twice as much meat available per person than there was in 1950. Citizens of most developed nations have gone down the same path, and as the poor become less so, they buy more meat, too.
Now, some European countries appear to be leading the way out of the abyss, not only with the food they call ''biologically'' produced (a term roughly equivalent to ''organic'') but in saner ways of eating, which start with cutting back on some animal products; Germans' per capita consumption of meat is down about 20 percent since 1990. (American meat consumption has dropped ever so slightly in recent years, most likely the result of a decline in income and an increase in both population and exports, which reduced supply and increased prices. Maybe conscious eating gets some credit also.)
As better-educated citizens of wealthier nations change direction, however, those whose opportunities and privileges have been delayed until now have every intention of catching up, not only by buying cars and TVs but by ''enriching'' their diet. Remember, it's our nature.
The extreme example is China, whose soaring meat consumption is dramatically affecting the global markets for corn, soy, poultry and pork. But even here in Turkey, which is hardly an economic miracle, the diet is rocketing into the 20th century, moving away from the traditional and toward the inevitable.
Turkey's diet was classic Mediterranean, of course, high in all kinds of plants, olive oil, some dairy (yogurt and feta, mostly) and a bit of fish, lamb or goat. Now it's a jumble: a rural grocery store I visited displayed American-style breakfast cereal and plenty of soda front and center, along with (good) local vegetables, industrially produced dairy, and a small supply of expensive, stylishly packaged legumes and grains. There was no fish, lamb or goat, but there were at least 10 cuts of beef and lots of chicken. (Chicken consumption has nearly tripled here in the last 20 years.)
As in much of the world, the local fish is mostly gone. A fish store had wild sea bass, a half-dozen farm-raised species, and a freezer full of commodity fish from elsewhere. A restaurant in Istanbul that had blown my mind 10 years ago with its local variety was offering wild turbot (decidedly not local) and swordfish, along with a few fish that the waiter kindly un-pushed: ''These are from the farm,'' he said, ''so why bother?''
As much as we like eating animals, naturally crave them and are encouraged by misinformation (often a better word than ''marketing''), the waiter's advice - ''why bother?'' - holds true for at least 90 percent of the animal products we're offered, no matter what their form. They're produced badly, they cause immeasurable damage to both our bodies and the earth, and - compared with the real thing - they don't taste that good.
In limited quantities, meat is just fine, especially sustainably raised meat (and wild game), locally and ethically produced dairy and eggs, the remaining wild or decently cultivated fish.
No matter where we live, if we focused on those - none of which are in abundant supply, which is exactly the point - and used them to augment the kind of diet we're made to eat, one based on plants as a staple, with these other things as treats, we'd all be better off. We can't afford to wait to evolve.
Visit my blog, where you can find out more about my columns, or what I just cooked. You can also join me on Facebook or Twitter.
This column appeared in print on June 2, 2011.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (89%); MEATS (89%); CONSUMPTION (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POULTRY (78%); MAMMALS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); COCAINE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



56 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Protests in Kurdistan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We object to the way ''Anger Lingers in Iraqi Kurdistan After a Crackdown'' (news article, May 19) represented the response of the government's security services to the protests. 
The Kurdistan Regional Government was elected in 2009 with 60 percent of the votes cast. It should not be compared to the undemocratic governments of Egypt and Tunisia.
The violence was a result of political opportunists attempting to achieve with force what they were unable to achieve at the ballot box. In response, the security services showed enormous restraint in the face of more than three months of provocation. It is regrettable that there was any violence and that there were casualties among both protesters and security forces.
There are legitimate grievances about government performance that are being addressed. The president has announced a reform program, and we are prepared to hold early elections. The government has also been helped by professional experts such as PricewaterhouseCoopers and RAND Corporation to bring performance, transparency and accountability to higher standards.
Violent calls to dissolve a democratically elected government are irresponsible, and ceding to this demand would set a dangerous precedent for the Kurdistan region's emerging democracy.
QUBAD TALABANI Kurdistan Regional Government Representative to the United States Washington, May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



57 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Obama Urged to Act Quickly on Budget Agreement

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Speaker John A. Boehner said Wednesday that Congress and the White House should try to reach an agreement within the next month that would combine an increase in the federal debt limit with deep spending cuts, and he called on President Obama to play a larger role in negotiations.
In a meeting with reporters after a White House session between House Republicans and the president, Mr. Boehner said a budget deal well in advance of the Treasury Department's Aug. 2 deadline for raising the debt ceiling could avoid the prospect of adverse market reactions. 
''This really needs to be done over the next month if we are serious about no brinksmanship and no rattling investors,'' Mr. Boehner said.
''The president could engage himself,'' he added. ''I'm willing. I'm ready. It is time to have the conversation. It is time to play large ball, not small ball.''
A bipartisan team of lawmakers from the House and Senate has been meeting with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to fashion a budget agreement that could clear the way for a vote to raise the $14.3 trillion debt limit, a step Mr. Boehner and other Republicans say they will not take without corresponding spending cuts. The speaker said the group was making marginal progress but at its current pace would brush up against the August deadline.
Mr. Boehner said he had had no discussions with the White House about involving the president in the negotiations.
As the Biden negotiations have been unfolding, it was considered likely that Mr. Boehner would have to agree on any package negotiated by lawmakers who included Representative Eric Cantor, the Virginia Republican and majority leader. Aides said Mr. Boehner's comments were not meant to be critical of the Biden talks.
Mr. Boehner's comments came after stock markets closed down 2 percent, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling 280 points, the biggest slide in a year. While the sell-off came amid new, disappointing economic data on manufacturing and jobs, Democrats had warned Tuesday that Republicans were risking a market reaction by staging a House vote that evening overwhelmingly rejecting an increase in the debt limit, which they did to pressure the White House to agree to spending cuts.
The White House meeting on Wednesday was expected to focus on the debt limit fight, but instead got caught up in the dispute over Medicare.
Following the session, Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who is chairman of the Budget Committee, said he asked Mr. Obama to not engage in demagogy about the Republicans' Medicare plan, which was under fierce attack from Democrats as essentially being a voucher program for older Americans.
''We simply described to him precisely what it is we've been proposing, so that he hears from us how our proposal works, so that in the future, he won't mischaracterize it,'' Mr. Ryan said.
Jay Carney, a spokesman for the president, disputed the notion that Mr. Obama had ever misconstrued the proposal, which would essentially subsidize those now younger than 55 in private insurance plans rather than have the federal government serve as the insurer of older Americans as it now does.
''It is a voucher plan,'' Mr. Carney said. ''If you're basically giving a subsidy of a set dollar figure that's limited in terms of its growth and that won't stay up with the growth in medical costs, I mean, that's -- you're basically getting a certain amount of money to put towards buying insurance.''
According to an administration official in the meeting, when Mr. Ryan told Mr. Obama that he had mischaracterized the House plan, Mr. Obama replied: ''Paul, I've read your plan. I do my homework.'' And after Mr. Ryan made the point that he proposed not a voucher but ''premium support'' for seniors to buy insurance, the president said that Mr. Ryan was shifting more costs to states and to older Americans, whereas his new health care law seeks savings from changes in how health care is delivered.
The official described the entire exchange as ''respectful'' on both sides; when another Republican leader raised the complaint early in the meeting that Mr. Obama had attacked them and their budget plan, Mr. Obama lightly noted that since he had taken office he had been called a job-killing socialist who created death panels and was not born in America.
In a coincidence that reinforced the stakes in the Medicare fight, Kathy Hochul was sworn in on Wednesday as the newest member of the House. Last week's victory by Ms. Hochul, a Democrat, in a Republican district in upstate New York was largely attributed to her campaign against the Republican plan for Medicare.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: House Republicans arrived at the White House on Wednesday for a meeting with the president to focus on the debt limit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); STOCK INDEXES (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JOE BIDEN (78%); ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



58 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Children Are Among Casualties of Syrian Military Raids After Demonstrations

BYLINE: By LIAM STACK; Sebnem Arsu contributed reporting from Antalya, Turkey, and Hwaida Saad from Beirut, Lebanon.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Syrian military forces killed 42 people Wednesday, including a 10-year-old boy and 4-year-old girl, in raids on a string of towns around the central city of Homs as the government continued trying to crush a three-month-old popular uprising against President Bashar al-Assad, human rights activists said.
Troops and tanks moved against the towns of Talbiseh, Teir Maaleh and Al-Rastan on Saturday after large antigovernment demonstrations on Friday, said Razan Zeitouneh, a rights activist whose organization, the Syrian Human Rights Information Link, collected the names of 42 people killed in Al-Rastan. Though figures for other towns were not available, Syrians reached by telephone described widespread arrests of men and neighborhoods besieged by tanks and snipers. 
''There are many, many tanks and soldiers in the whole area of Homs,'' said a human rights activist in Homs, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''There has been a lot of fighting.''
Hajar al-Khateeb, 10, was killed when security forces opened fire on a school bus driving between Al-Rastan and Homs, and Marwa Shakhdo, 4, was shot dead when soldiers entered her family's home in Al-Rastan, Ms. Zeitouneh said.
Syrian state television said three soldiers had so far died in the operation, which it said was aimed at ''armed terrorist groups,'' part of the official government narrative that has blamed foreigners and terrorists for the uprising. Even some of Mr. Assad's supporters have said that explanation was not credible with protests drawing large crowds across the country.
The scene of the crackdown on Wednesday, Al-Rastan, is the hometown of Syria's former defense minister, Mustafa Tlas, who served for more than three decades, and many army officers are drawn from there, said Radwan Ziadeh, an exiled human rights activist and visiting scholar at George Washington University. He said hundreds of people had been detained in the operation. Syrian forces also shelled the southern town of Hirak, killing at least eight, including Malak Munir al-Qaddah, 11, The Associated Press reported. Mohamed, a Dara'a resident reached by telephone who did not want to give his last name for fear of reprisal, said that about 40 tanks idled at the village entrance and that security forces had arrested dozens of men over the age of 18.
''Residents have fled through the fields around the village,'' he said. ''Snipers are everywhere.''
Telephone, electricity and water were cut in many towns on Wednesday, Mr. Ziadeh said.
Information about the military operation was impossible to verify because Syria has denied foreign journalists permission to report in the country.
At least 40 children have died in the uprising against Mr. Assad, whose family has ruled for four decades. The most infamous of those cases involved Hamza Ali al-Khateeb, 13, whose mutilated remains were recorded on a video posted online, transforming the young man into a symbol of the revolt and the government's unsparing, lethal crackdown. Activists said Hamza was arrested on April 29 at a protest in the southern town of Jiza.
In response to international outrage, the government offered an official version of Hamza's death on state television on Wednesday, saying he was lured into attacking a military housing compound by armed men ''inciting calls for jihad'' and died in the cross-fire. It quoted a judge who said he had died ''without any traces of torture,'' a statement at odds with the video.
The state broadcaster, SANA, reported on its Web site that Hamza's father had discussed his son's death in a meeting with Mr. Assad, who SANA said the father described as ''gentle and kind.'' Activists said that the father was detained by security forces last week after a video of his son's corpse appeared on YouTube.
The military operations in Syria coincided with a meeting of more than 300 opposition activists who gathered in the Turkish resort town of Antalya. Most of the people there were Syrians living abroad with ties to traditional opposition movements.
''This is the first time in 50 years such a large group gets together for action,'' said Orouba Barakat, who arrived from Abu Dhabi. She said she had donated money and satellite phones to protesters. ''I am so happy, but also confused in the face of growing violence,'' she said.
Turkey views Syria as an important economic partner, but officials have also grown alarmed at the violence and pressed the Assad government to make changes.
On Wednesday, the Turkish government kept a cautious distance from the conference. ''This is a meeting initiated by Syrian groups,'' said a Foreign Ministry official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in keeping with diplomatic protocol. ''If our advice for reforms had been followed, today's situation would have been quite different. Our message to the Syrian administration has been and is very clear. No explanation can justify the death of a 13-year-old child.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); ARMIES (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); MEN (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOURNALISM (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (66%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



59 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ECONOMIC MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Data on Jobs May Hold Key To President's

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- No American president since Franklin Delano Roosevelt has won a second term in office when the unemployment rate on Election Day topped 7.2 percent.
Seventeen months before the next election, it is increasingly clear that President Obama must defy that trend to keep his job.
Roughly 9 percent of Americans who want to go to work cannot find an employer. Companies are firing fewer people, but hiring remains anemic. And the vast majority of economic forecasters, including the president's own advisers, predict only modest progress by November 2012.
The latest job numbers, due Friday, are expected to provide new cause for concern. Other indicators suggest the pace of growth is flagging. Weak manufacturing data, a gloomy reading on jobs in advance of Friday's report and a drop in auto sales led the markets to their worst close since August, and those declines carried over into Asia Thursday. 
But the grim reality of widespread unemployment is drawing little response from Washington. The Federal Reserve says it is all but tapped out. There is even less reason to expect Congressional action. Both Democrats and Republicans see clear steps to create jobs, but they are trying to walk in opposite directions and are making little progress.
Republicans have set the terms of debate by pressing for large cuts in federal spending, which they say will encourage private investment. Democrats have found themselves battling to minimize and postpone such cuts, which they fear will cause new job losses.
House Republicans told the president that they would not support new spending to spur growth during a meeting at the White House on Wednesday.
''The discussion really focused on the philosophical difference on whether Washington should continue to pump money into the economy or should we provide an incentive for entrepreneurs and small businesses to grow,'' said Eric Cantor, the majority leader. ''The president talked about a need for us to continue to quote-unquote invest from Washington's standpoint, and for a lot of us that's code for more Washington spending, something that we can't afford right now.''
The White House, its possibilities constrained by the gridlock, has offered no new grand plans. After agreeing to extend the Bush-era tax cuts and reducing the payroll tax last December, the administration has focused on smaller ideas, like streamlining corporate taxation and increasing American exports to Asia and Latin America.
''It's a very tough predicament,'' said Jared Bernstein, who until April was economic policy adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ''Is there any political appetite for something that would resemble another large Keynesian stimulus? Obviously no. You can say that's what we should do and you'd probably be right, but that's pretty academic.''
More than 13.7 million Americans were unable to find work in April; most had been seeking jobs for months. Millions more have stopped trying. Their inability to earn money is a personal catastrophe; studies show that the chance of finding new work slips away with time. It is also a strain on their families, charities and public support programs.
The Federal Reserve, the nation's central bank, has the means and the mandate to reduce unemployment by pumping money into the economy.
As financial markets nearly collapsed in 2008, the Fed unleashed a series of unprecedented programs, first to arrest the crisis and then to promote recovery, investing more than $2 trillion. The final installment, a $600 billion bond-buying program, ends in June.
Now, however, the leaders of the central bank say they are reluctant to do more. The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said in April that more money might not increase growth, but there was a growing risk that it would accelerate inflation.
Congress charged the Fed in 1978 with minimizing unemployment and inflation. Those goals, however, are often in conflict, and the Fed has made clear that inflation is its priority. Fed officials argue in part that maintaining slow, steady inflation forms a basis for enduring economic expansion.
Eric S. Rosengren, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, said in a recent interview that the Fed had reached the limits of responsible policy.
''We've done things that are quite unusual. We're using tools that we have less experience with,'' Mr. Rosengren said. ''Most of the criticism has been that we're being too accommodative. That is a concern that we have to put some weight on.''
Heather Boushey, senior economist at the Center for American Progress, a liberal research group, said that the Fed was being too cautious about inflation and too callous about joblessness.
''We have a massive unemployment problem in this country right now. It is festering. It's not good for our economy. It's not good for our society. And we have the tools to fix it,'' she said. ''We certainly need to be concerned about what happens down the road, but shouldn't we first be concerned about getting the U.S. economy back on track?''
Seven presidents have stood for re-election since Mr. Roosevelt. In three instances the unemployment rate stood above 6 percent on Election Day. Two presidents lost: Jimmy Carter and George H. W. Bush. But Ronald Reagan won, despite 7.2 percent unemployment in November 1984, because the rate was falling and voters decided he was fixing the problem.
The Obama administration hopes to tell a similar story.
''We have undertaken some of the biggest policy actions to create jobs that any administration has ever done,'' said Jason Furman, deputy director of the National Economic Council, which advises the president on economic policy. Mr. Furman said that the economy was still benefiting from last year's tax cuts, and from the dollop of federal stimulus spending that Democrats pushed through in 2009.
The White House is pursuing a number of smaller initiatives, like persuading China to buy more American goods and services; increasing business confidence in the health of the economy, to spur new investment; and striking a deal with Republicans to overhaul corporate taxation.
It is also pushing to renew federal financing for transportation projects with an important twist: The six-year plan would be front-loaded so that $50 billion would be spent in the first year.
But Christina Romer, who headed the president's Council of Economic Advisers until fall 2010, said in a recent speech at Washington University in St. Louis that no part of the government was addressing unemployment with sufficient urgency or hope.
''Urgency, because unemployment is a tragedy that should not be tolerated a minute longer,'' she said. ''And hope, because prudent and possible policies could make a crucial difference.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on June 2 about the unemployment rate's effect on President Obama's prospects for re-election misstated the number of presidents who have run for re-election since Franklin Delano Roosevelt. It is seven, not ten. (Presidents Truman, Johnson and Ford came to the presidency by succession, not election, so their candidacies as incumbents are not considered re-election campaigns.) This correction was delayed because an e-mail from a reader pointing out the error went astray at The Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Eric Cantor, center, the House majority leader, speaking after a meeting with President Obama on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 A sign outside a job fair in Denver last month. New figures on jobs, due Friday, are expected to bring fresh cause for concern. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); TAX LAW (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TAX RELIEF (64%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (54%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JARED BERNSTEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011



60 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Shareholders Approve Massey Energy Sale to Alpha

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
Shareholders approved Alpha Natural Resources' $7.1 billion purchase of Massey Energy on Wednesday, creating the nation's largest metallurgical coal company, but one that still will have to overcome safety concerns after Massey's Upper Big Branch mine disaster last year.
Many coal analysts say the future of the merged company is bright because economic growth in China, Brazil and other developing countries has tightened world supplies of metallurgical coal, which is used for making steel, and driven up prices. 
Only four countries export metallurgical coal, also known as coking coal, and the newly merged company will be one of the few mining firms in the world that has access to sufficient port and rail infrastructure to expand exports substantially over the next several years.
The takeover of Massey by a competing Appalachian coal company came about after Massey was battered by legal troubles after an explosion in April 2010 at its Upper Big Branch mine in West Virginia in which 29 miners died. It was the most lethal United States mine accident in 40 years.
Michael J. Quillen, Alpha's chairman, said in an interview that Massey operations would need to adopt Alpha's safety procedures and culture and that important changes in management personnel would be announced in the next few days.
''There are obviously going to be some challenges,'' Mr. Quillen acknowledged. ''It's going to take a little while to integrate something as massive as the Massey asset. We need to go in and understand all of their operations.''
In recent weeks, Alpha has come under criticism from union leaders, mine safety experts and senior Congressional Democrats for a decision to retain three senior Massey managers, including Baxter F. Phillips, Massey's chief executive, who had been president at the time of the Upper Big Branch accident.
An official investigation into the accident by a panel appointed by the former governor of West Virginia blamed Massey's management for the accident, saying it had ''operated its mines in a profoundly reckless manner.''
Massey executives have long argued that the explosion was caused by a natural large methane release into the mine chamber, not bad safety procedures.
J. Davitt McAteer, the former federal mine safety chief who led the West Virginia inquiry, said in an interview that retaining senior Massey executives ''certainly doesn't help make a dramatic and abrupt change in safety culture.''
''The question for the new owners,'' he added, ''is where is the strong message that this heralds a new day in mine safety and health?''
Mr. McAteer said that several Massey executives that were expected to remain with Alpha had declined to testify before his group or federal and state investigators.
Mr. Quillen said Alpha was listening to the criticism. ''There will be some announcements clarifying the management structure in the immediate future,'' he said. ''There's definitely going to be some changes made.'' He declined to be more specific.
The Massey side of the company will need to ''adapt to the Alpha personality and not vice versa,'' he said. ''It's not going to be Massey with another name.''
Mining industry analysts said Alpha had a good record of blending prior acquisitions into the company and the merger was likely to succeed.
''If they completely integrate their safety procedures into Massey, then I don't think there will be a problem,'' said Justin Molavi, an energy analyst at IBISWorld, a market research firm.
David Khani, director of research at FBR Capital Markets, said Alpha faced multiple challenges, including declining production at Massey's mines, rising operational costs and conflicts with federal regulators.
But Mr. Khani said Alpha was up to the task and the transition could be worked out over a year or so. ''They are smart managers and they are very professional,'' he said of Alpha's leadership.
The merger will make Alpha the mining company with the second-largest coal reserves in the country, after Peabody Energy, with about five billion tons. It will have the third-largest reserves of metallurgical coal in the world after BHP Billiton and Teck Resources of Canada.
But Alpha will also inherit more than a dozen lawsuits filed by families of the Massey miners who were killed in the Big Branch disaster.
The deal was completed a few hours after separate votes at meetings of Alpha and Massey shareholders. The merged company will keep the Alpha name.
The votes came a day after courts in Delaware and West Virginia refused requests by different shareholder groups to block the sale.
In the West Virginia suit, shareholders said that Massey managers had engineered the sale of the company to protect themselves from liabilities connected to the Upper Big Branch disaster. They also said that Alpha had quietly agreed to hire several Massey executives conducting an internal investigation of the accident.
In the interview, Mr. Quillen did not deny that Alpha discussed the possibility of hiring Massey executives as part of the merger talks. ''That doesn't mean you are going to hire all of them,'' he said. ''The other side is going to say 'What about my people?' That's a common occurrence in any acquisition of any size.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRACTIVE METALLURGY (91%); APPROVALS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); COAL MINING (90%); MERGERS (90%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (90%); 2010 WEST VIRGINIA COAL MINE EXPLOSION (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); EXECUTIVES (87%); TAKEOVERS (79%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); COAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); MINE WORKERS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); TESTIMONY (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%)

COMPANY: MASSEY ENERGY CO (92%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (90%)

TICKER: FLR (FRA) (92%); ANR (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%)

PERSON: MICHAEL J QUILLEN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



61 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: World Bank to Help Cities Control Climate Change

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; John M. Broder contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
SAO PAULO, Brazil -- The World Bank signed an agreement on Wednesday with mayors from 40 of the world's biggest cities to work on technical and financial assistance for projects to minimize the effects of climate change.
The deal, announced at the C40 large cities climate meeting here, will ease access to financing for climate-change-reduction projects. It was hailed by many of the mayors, including Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City, and by former President Bill Clinton, who attended the event as part of a new partnership with Mr. Bloomberg. 
''The World Bank announcement is terrifically important,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''It will give credibility to these projects to get private capital.''
The agreement will make it easier for investors who have been hesitant to finance projects to assess city action plans by providing a standard approach, said Robert B. Zoellick, the World Bank's president.
It will also provide a common way to measure and report on the greenhouse gas emissions of cities, easing access to carbon financing, he said. No single standard exists for reporting citywide carbon emissions.
Mayors said they were eager to gain access to the World Bank's climate investment funds, which totaled $6.4 billion last year. Mr. Zoellick said the bank hoped to use that money to attract as much as $50 billion in private capital.
''What is holding back the sustainable clean technology revolution for a lot of mayors and businesses and households in a lot of countries is the lack of green financing,'' said Sam Adams, the mayor of Portland, Ore. ''The partnership with the World Bank begins to address that.''
The meeting has provided a chance for mayors to exchange information on practical solutions they have worked on to reduce pollution, improve transportation and increase energy efficiency.
''The great focus of discussions today in whatever city, state or country, involve environmental questions,'' said Gilberto Kassab, Sao Paulo's mayor.
The C40 commissioned a pair of studies that provide, for the first time, a statistical baseline of greenhouse gas emissions produced by the 58 cities that are members of the organization, as well as a catalog of actions they are taking to reduce them.
As Mr. Bloomberg, the chairman of C40, said, repeating a mantra from his business career, ''If you can't measure it, you can't manage it.''
The C40 member cities have a total population of more than 300 million and produce 12 percent of global greenhouse gases and 21 percent of global economic activity. Of the 42 cities that participated in the research, more than half have adopted emissions-reduction targets, and nearly two-thirds have taken steps to address climate change.
Nearly half reported that they were already dealing with the effects of climate change, including rising sea levels and higher average temperatures.
The cities reported more than 4,700 specific actions they have taken in the last five years to reduce emissions or adapt to climate change. Among those are converting buses to running on natural gas or hybrid-electric systems, recovering organic waste from landfills, retrofitting public buildings to make them more energy efficient and switching to less energy-intensive street and traffic lights.
''Some actions are quite comprehensive,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''Many others are seemingly more modest, although as mayors we all recognize that large victories almost always result from many small steps.''
Still, he added, ''there's a great deal more that we can do.''
Mr. Clinton, in discussing ways to reduce climate-altering gases, highlighted the need to curb landfill and animal waste emissions to control methane gas.
''The world could push back for 20 years the most destructive consequences of climate change and give us 20 more years to figure out what to do with carbon if we could make a dramatic reduction in methane and black carbon, which is largely caused by the burning of charcoal and wood for food and the flaring of natural gas,'' he said.
Mr. Clinton suggested that closing landfills and capturing methane as a power source ''would solve a public health problem, give massive amounts of land back to cities, you would put huge numbers of people back to work. The financing has not been available for these things because they are looked at as eyesores, not gold mines.''
Mr. Bloomberg took a swipe at federal lawmakers for dragging their feet on addressing climate change.
''Mayors can't just talk about goals for the year 2050, which some congressmen in the United States want to set as a goal,'' he said. ''Cities are where you deliver services. Federal governments and state governments sit around talking and passing laws or recommendations that don't have any teeth.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); CITIES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (75%); BILL CLINTON (72%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



62 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1727 words

HEADLINE: A Way to Pay for College, With Dividends

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: Why using "human capital contracts" to finance higher education isn't as scary as it sounds.

 BODY:
If you were a student looking for financing to pursue a degree in social science, would you accept an offer of $16,000, in exchange for paying 4.5 percent of your income for 10 years after you graduate?
In Tuesday's column, I wrote about a social enterprise called Lumni, which helps predominately low-income students in Colombia, Mexico, Chile and the United States finance their college educations through "human capital contracts." In exchange for the financing they receive, the students commit to repayment schemes along the lines of the one outlined above (the terms vary). After the time period elapses - it's always 10 years or less - the obligation expires, no matter how much has been repaid. Some readers thought this could be an attractive alternative to student loans, but many others had strong negative reactions. I'd like to address their concerns.
As I mentioned, human capital contracts are not a new idea. The Nobel-prize winning economist Milton Friedman proposed them in the 1950s. Decades ago, Yale University experimented with a program through which students could postpone tuition and repay it later as a fraction of their income. The idea was abandoned after the introduction of federally subsidized loans. Australia allows students to pay for college through a special tax after they graduate, which operates in a similar fashion. And in 2009, the U.S. government introduced income-based repayment for federal loans, which are available to students whose debt is high relative to their income. What's common to these programs is that they all try to lessen the financial burden of a college education by shifting from fixed loan obligations to payments that fluctuate based on income.
Ironically, it is this very feature - income-contingent repayment - that elicited the greatest outcry from readers. "This whole concept gives me the creeps," wrote Bignybugs from New York (24). "[It] sounds like indentured servitude. This is just gross: letting capitalists invest in human beings!" RandFan from Memphis (40) added: "Is owning 14 percent of a man's labor less morally reprehensible than owning 100 percent, or the 85 to 90 percent that was probably more indicative of U.S. slavery outside the deep South."
It's not clear to me why someone who agrees to sell a portion of his future earnings for a given period of time is being enslaved. The essence of servitude is a loss of freedom. What happens today for many college students who take on student debt is that they get locked into high payments that limit their career options. I've met many students who say they would love to spend a number of years after they graduate working for a social-purpose organization, or serving in a program like Teach For America, or trying to start a business - but many of them end up going the corporate route because of their loans. That sounds more like servitude to me.
With human capital contracts, students would have wider options. They would know that, regardless of their career choices, their payments would not be unmanageable. For example, doctors who financed their education this way could feel more comfortable going into lower-paying, urgently needed specialties like gerontology or serving in low-income communities, where they might earn less; young professionals in many fields could trade off some income for the chance to do work that is more meaningful and potentially more fulfilling.
The other big objection from readers was that higher education shouldn't be financed through market-based mechanisms; it should be financed by governments. "Why does everything have to be market based?" wrote Phil Perspective of Redwood City, Calif.. (3) "Why should some rich person further enrich himself at my expense so I can go to college? Why not have free college (I know it's not really free, but it would be part of the taxes you pay)?" Swaroop from San Jose, Calif. (10), agreed that a better way to address the problem of college financing was through "progressive taxation and government subsidized college education."
For what it's worth, I agree, too. In my view, education (and health care) should be treated as public goods and financed accordingly. (I grew up in Montreal and my college tuition at McGill University was $1,500 a year. Cheers for Canada!) But this column is about solutions. And that means operating within the boundaries of possibility, or at least foreseeable possibility. It's hard to imagine that citizens around the world will muster the political might to get governments to raise taxes so that college becomes freely accessible to all. This approach is losing ground even in Europe. In many developing countries, governments can't even collect taxes and are woefully corrupt. In the U.S., with the current budget deficit, we're struggling just to keep our children's libraries from closing.
Different countries will continue to advance different models to finance higher education. The point is that human capital contracts can increase options for a large number of students - though not all - by tapping into new private funding sources. They are not a solution to the whole problem of education financing; they are a piece of the puzzle.
Would such contracts, if they became more common, push students into more marketable careers at the expense of other pursuits? NMorgan from Knoxville, Tenn.(30), noted: "While poets, philosophers [or] teachers are a poor financial investment, it is hard to argue that such careers do not provide society with anything of value." Ed from Philly (33), added: "The problem with this concept is that it tends to attract money for the most profitable outcomes."
This gets to the advantages and disadvantages of human capital contracts. They work best to finance education where there is some predictability about students' future salaries. The salaries don't have to be high, just reasonably predictable. Lumni finances lots of teachers, nurses and social workers. Each contract is valued based on expectations of earnings. What Lumni won't do is issue a contract if they believe a student is pursuing a career path that is unlikely to lead to employment - or if they believe students need too much financial assistance relative to the value Lumni assigns to a particular academic program. They make these judgments based on numerous factors: the school's graduation rates, the success of graduates in finding work in their fields, and the economic potential in those fields.
Human capital contracts can be used to fund many socially valuable pursuits, but they are not suitable to fund careers that are difficult to justify on economic terms. For example, a student who wants to study international development and then spend five years working in an African village, would need to find other sources of financing. There will always remain certain kinds of work that society has to fund as public goods, which is to say through taxation, financial aid, subsidized loans, free college education, all the various models that already exist. But human capital contracts can help: if they open up a more robust private financing channel for courses of education that are likely to provide economic returns for students, it would free up public resources for things that truly depend on public support - things that society systematically undervalues, like the arts and social entrepreneurship.
In many cases, Lumni already works with nonprofit funders to do things like this. In Chile, for example, it finances students who want to become school teachers in rural areas. "A rural teacher is going to earn a salary that the return for us will be very low or negative," explains Felipe Vergara, Lumni's co-founder. "However, the return for society is huge. So we need to find a way to finance this."
Economists have argued that human capital contracts would fall prey to the problem of "information asymmetry." The contracts are priced based on projections of a student's future earnings - drawing in part on information that students provide themselves. For obvious reasons, students who say they want to go into banking will be asked to pay a lower percentage of future income than students who say they want to go into teaching. But what is to stop a student who secretly wants to become a teacher from pretending that he wants to become a banker?
Well, it turns out that 18-year-old students don't have very clear ideas about their future paths, so things average out. "We probably have better information about the expected earnings of the students than they do," says Miguel Palacios, Lumni's other founder. "Because we have the law of large numbers." They also have databases that carefully track college programs and salary rates. They have become skilled at interviewing students, identifying factors like resilience, commitment and the ability to set and follow through on long term goals. They also provide coaching - how to give a good job interview, how to wear a tie and so forth. All of this helps them make better predictions.
What happens when students are very successful? "Some say, 'Wow, this is awesome, I owe it to you guys, I'll pay happily, in fact I'm going to become an investor,'" says Palacios. "In other cases, they say, 'This is much more than I planned to pay. This is unfair. Let's renegotiate.' " So, Lumni is experimenting with solutions, such as offering buyout options for the contracts.
The bottom line is this: Human capital contracts are not just loans by another name. One of their key advantages is that they provide students with a form of career insurance. Student who opt for them will discover that their cost of financing is lowest when they need money most, and it will be highest when they need it least. They give up a portion of their success at the upper end for peace of mind when times get tough.
Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes.
David Bornstein is the author of "How to Change the World," which has been published in 20 languages, and "The Price of a Dream: The Story of the Grameen Bank," and is co-author of "Social Entrepreneurship: What Everyone Needs to Know." He is the founder of dowser.org, a media site that reports on social innovation.

        
Instead of Student Loans, Investing in Futures
        
A Book in Every Home, and Then Some
        
We're All Badgers Now
        
Degrees of Influence?
        
The Power of Partnerships

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); DAMAGES (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); SLAVERY (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%) australia; chile; Colombia; Education; Higher education; Student Loans; Careers and Professions; Colleges and Universities; Wages and Salaries; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (79%) COLOMBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



63 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: A Nimbler, More Energy-Efficient Marine Corps

BYLINE: ELISABETH ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: To reduce the risks and burdens posed by transporting fossil fuels in convoys, the Marines adopt technology like solar power and LED lighting.

 BODY:
Last year I wrote about how American troops sent into conflict zones were relying more on renewable energy and green products. In places like Afghanistan, fuel supply routes are extremely vulnerable to attacks, putting soldiers at risk when their cargo includes oil, diesel or kerosene-based fossil fuels.
What is more, regiments tethered to such fuels are less nimble. Soldiers assigned to guard fuel trucks are not available for other tasks.
Now the Marine Corps plans to expand the deployment of green technologies that would be useful on the battlefield. "The goal is to make the Marines a more effective fighting force and to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels, transported water, and battery logistics," said Maj. Gen. John A. Toolan, commander of the Second Marine Division. "We will significantly increase our energy efficiency on the battlefield and in doing so reduce our reliance on logistics convoys."Some of the innovations deployed include a solar-powered generator and LED lighting.
There are over 100 forward operating bases in Afghanistan, each of which needs over 300 gallons of diesel fuel daily. Fuel is used to generate electricity and heat as well as to power vehicles, so if the Marines can cut that requirement by even 10 or 20 percent, far fewer convoys will be at risk.
Last year Marine officers told me that they spend hundreds of dollars just getting a gallon of fuel to a forward operating base. A penny saved is a penny earned.

        
A Lawmaker's Critique of Obama's Energy Stance
        
Q. and A.: Hastening the Energy Revolution
        
Beyond Fossil Fuels: Costs and Benefits
        
A Bullish View of Wind Power Out West
        
As School Roofs Crumble, Toronto Finds Solar Solution

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (93%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (90%); WIND ENERGY (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (72%) Afghanistan; combat risks; fossil fuels; Marines; renewable energy; solar power; United States military; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Defense and Military Forces; Energy Efficiency; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Light-Emitting Diodes; Solar Energy; United States Defense and Military Forces; United States Marine Corps; Energy Economics; Living; Politics and Policy; Transportation

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (94%) United States Marine Corps

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



64 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Year-End Roundup | Language Arts, Journalism, Culture and Academic Skills

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Our lessons are on summer vacation, but here's a look back at lessons in reading and writing from the 2010-11 school year.

 BODY:
The school year is drawing to a close, and our lesson plans have already gone on summer vacation. So this week we're looking back at the 2010-11 school year and collecting the year's teaching materials by subject matter. Below are the lesson plans we ran this year in academic skills, language arts, journalism and culture as well as interdisciplinary topics.
Check the post from Tuesday for all of the year's lessons in social studies, American history and civics, global history, economics and geography and Wednesday in science, health, technology and math. (Even if those aren't your primary subject areas, you may want to take a look at those collections, as many of our lesson plans are cross-curricular or can be adapted easily for other subjects.)
We hope our resources have been useful to you this year, and as always, we welcome your stories and feedback. Did you use our materials, and if so, how did it go? Do you have suggestions for us? Please share your experiences and thoughts in the comment box below. 
Like last year, Times articles this school year lent themselves to quite a wide range of lesson plan topics in language arts. They provided rich fodder for teaching materials that went deep into specific issues and material as well as cross-curricular projects. One topic we returned to repeatedly and in different ways was the use of technology in the study of literature, reading and writing.
Academic Skills
Briefly Noted: Practicing Useful Annotation Strategies
Questioning Authority: Evaluating Wikipedia Articles
Advance Notice: Examining the Focus and Value of the A.P. Program
Going Into Detail: Developing Proofreading Skills
Manny in High School: A Slide Show That Tells a Slugger's Story
Making a Commitment: Memorizing and Reciting
Language Arts, Literature and Journalism
Writing:
Less Is More: Using Social Media to Inspire Concise Writing
Reading and Responding: Holding Writing Workshops
Passion Prompts: Sentence Starters for Writing About Relationships
Creative State of Mind: Focusing on the Writing Process
Going Beyond Cliche: How to Write a Great College Essay
Putting Personality on Paper: Writing About People Using Times Models
Reading:
Rounding Up the Usual Suspects: Interpreting Famous Quotations
Found in Translation: Parsing and Appreciating Difficult Texts
OMG!! Exploring Slang
More Great Read-Alouds From The New York Times
Figuratively Speaking: Exploring How Metaphors Make Meaning
Literature:
Dark Materials: Reflecting on Dystopian Themes in Young Adult Literature
An American Wit: Approaching Mark Twain's Life and Works
What Would Cleopatra Do? Drawing Lessons From History or Literature
Big Brother vs. Little Brother: Updating Orwell's '1984'
In Service of the Story: Exploring Questions of Truth in Memoir
One-Way Ticket? Exploring the Great Migration in Literature and the Arts
Viewer, She Marries Him: Comparing 'Jane Eyre' in Literature and Film
Modern Minstrelsy: Exploring Racist Stereotypes in Literature and Life
Songs in the Key of Lit: Ways to Use Music to Study Literature
Print vs. Digital: Analyzing and Designing Book Apps for Works of Literature
Poetry on Film: Interpreting 'Howl' in the 21st Century
Journalism:
Opinion Through the Ages: Exploring 40 Years of New York Times Op-Eds
Journalists at Risk: Considering the Perils and Value of War Reporting
Beyond Question: Learning the Art of the Interview
The Events in Libya: Using Reporting and Multimedia to Understand News
Short and Sweet: Deconstructing and Crafting Brief Arts Reviews
Culture
On the Market: Thinking Critically About Advertising
Bieber Fever: Casting a Critical Eye on Celebrities and Popular Culture
Real vs. Virtual: Examining Works of Art Online
What Does Change Look Like? Making Documentaries About School
Interdisciplinary Topics
Breaking news:
Summer 2011: Tracking Topics in the News
Teachers Respond to the Crisis in Japan
20 Ways to Teach About the Disaster in Japan Across the Curriculum
Chile y Todo el Mundo: Connecting the Chilean Miners Story With Universal Themes
Teaching Ideas: The Death of Osama bin Laden
Nine Years, 779 People: Guantanamo Bay and the Implications of the Files
Evergreen topics:
'A Troubling Trend': Discussing Bullying and Antigay Attitudes
On Coming Out: Exploring the Stories of Gay Teenagers
Confronted Challenges and Broken Barriers: Profiling Extraordinary Women
Using Our New On This Day Feature
From Dr. Spock to the Tiger Mother: Studying Parents and Families
That's Funny: Comedy Across the Curriculum
Data Visualized: More on Teaching With Infographics
Marriage and the Monarchy: Lessons From the British Royal Family
Teaching Topics
We added the following to our Teaching Topics collection, which includes resources on numerous great books, this year:
12 Ways to Learn Vocabulary With The New York Times
10 Ways to Celebrate Banned Books Week
Teaching With and About Technology
Using The New York Times for Teaching and Learning About Women
100 Ways to Celebrate the 100th Day of School With The New York Times
Teaching Twain and Huckleberry Finn With the New York Times
Teaching 'The Crucible' With The New York Times
We also started two new features, both of which include language arts-related teaching materials:
Great Ideas From Readers, which features projects and activities that use The New York Times sent in by teachers and so far includes creative teaching ideas for homeschooling, Transcendentalism, grammar, English-language learning and teaching business English, among others.
Test Yourself, which includes twice-weekly language questions for brushing up on skills and preparing for standardized tests.
And we ran two student challenges:
Caption a New York Times Photo With a Quotation, which yielded more than 150 entries and 10 "favorites."
The second annual Found Poem Challenge, which yielded more than 650 entries and 10 "favorites." 
Check back with us soon for our second annual New York Times as Your Summer Reading student challenge, which we are planning to run in July, and at other times over the summer and as you start your curriculum planning for the fall. As always, thank you for teaching with The New York Times.

        
Year-End Roundup | Science, Health, Technology and Math
        
Year-End Roundup | Social Studies, History, Geography and Civics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LITERATURE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); HISTORY (76%); GEOGRAPHY (70%); SOCIAL MEDIA (64%); YOUNG ADULT LITERATURE (64%) roundup; Academic Skills; Current Events; Fine Arts; Journalism; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Media Studies; Teaching with The New York Times

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



65 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: With More Single Fathers, a Changing Family Picture

BYLINE: LISA BELKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Double the number since 1990, though still only 15 percent of all parents.

 BODY:
Doing some comparative math in the weeks before Father's Day, Matthew Weinshenker, an assistant professor of sociology at Fordham University, has calculated that the number of single-father families in the United States has jumped 27 percent in the past decade. Since 1990, it has nearly doubled -- to 2.79 million from 1.5 million. That is still only 15 percent of all single parents, but the increase, Dr. Weinshenker says, shows that the picture of American families is changing.
In an e-mail exchange, I asked him to elaborate on the numbers.
Q.Why?A.In the past, fathers raised children without mothers only when the mother had died or was deemed incompetent. That still happens, but I think several other factors have entered the mix. First, our culture has changed so that fathers with partners, who used to be seen as discharging their paternal responsibility primarily by earning money, are now encouraged to be more involved in their children's lives. Many do so, and do so quite willingly. As a result, more men are interested in raising their children in the event of a divorce or the breakup of a relationship. At the same time, family courts, which used to be wary of granting custody to fathers after divorce, have become much more willing to do so. This may mean custody is awarded to the father alone, but joint physical custody may also be awarded, meaning that children live with each parent for half the time. Parents who never married do not have formal joint-custody arrangements, but they may share their children in the same way. Because the Census asks simple questions, I would guess that a substantial fraction of what appear to be single-father families are actually formal and informal joint-custody arrangements in which the child happened to be staying with the father on April 1, which is the census date.
However, the legal system's increasing openness to granting fathers custody is not always positive. It is unfortunately the case that many men who have abused their partners seek custody of the children when their victimized partners finally leave them. These men hope that gaining custody of the children will lure their partners back into their lives, and they also do not trust their partners to care for the children without them.
Q.So most of these are not men without a partner in the picture, but rather men who have fought for and gained custody after divorce?
A.According to the Census's American Community Survey, 46 percent of single fathers are divorced, and another 19 percent are separated, so that's about two-thirds. Thirty percent were never married, and I would be willing to bet that many of them lived with the mother and the child for a time. Only 6 percent are widowers.
Q.How many of these households, then, are led by one adult, just Dad?A.Many of them. But many aren't. The father may be living with relatives and sharing child care with them. He may also be living with a new girlfriend. There is no authoritative data on what fraction of single-father families contain additional adults who help care for the children, but one study found it to be more than half. That may or may not be correct, but there is no question that many single fathers are not raising their children alone, just as it is true that many single mothers get lots of help from relatives or from boyfriends.
Q.Could it also be that more mothers "walking away" from children, as fathers have so often done?A.I am skeptical of this. However, single fathers are an understudied group. We need to do more about this.
Q.Do we have a socio-economic, racial breakdown of who these single dads are? A.Single dads definitely have higher incomes on average than single moms, and a far larger proportion of them are non-Hispanic white. However, they have lower average incomes than married fathers and are more likely to be below the poverty line.
Q.Is society more accepting of fathers raising children?A.It depends on who you ask, but if you want to think in terms of the "average" person, the answer is probably yes. It is now not only accepted, but praised, for partnered men to take a significant part in caring for their children, and the same change in attitudes permits greater acceptance of single dads.
Q.Is there any measurable difference to a child being raised by a single father versus a single mother?A.That, of course, is the most important question! In my opinion, this needs much more research, but last year, there was a marvelous study showing that children of single fathers and single mothers faced greater developmental risks than children raised by their own two parents -- risks like not completing high school and being both unemployed and out of school as young adults. The really interesting thing here is that for children with a single mom, the risks were reduced a bit if the mother found a new partner, but for children with a single dad, the risks increased when he found a new partner. Maybe this is only because I have a four-year-old girl, but this study conjured images of the wicked stepmother archetype from so many fairy tales.
Q.Is this a good thing (equality of the sexes) or bad thing (more children without two parents)?A.It depends on the father's motivations. I think that if fathers raise their children for the right reasons, namely a deep interest in parenting them, and not the wrong reasons, like not trusting the mother or being locked in a power struggle with her, then it is a victory for gender fairness and for children's best interests.

        
Missing a Son on the Census Form
        
The Fate of Two Unplanned Pregnancies
        
When Kids Relocate
        
Married vs. Single Moms

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SINGLE PARENTS (94%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); FAMILY (90%); PARENTS (90%); FAMILY LAW (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); MARRIAGE (77%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PARENTING (73%); FAMILY COURTS (72%) census; single fathers; single parents; Child Custody and Support; Divorce, Separations and Annulments; Single Mothers; Fathers

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011



66 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Core Madness (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Of frequency and foolishness. 

 BODY:
I mentioned yesterday that Lorenzo Bini Smaghi has a spectacularly wrong-headed piece in today's FT, offering some very badly framed arguments for using headline rather than core inflation to drive monetary policy. Among other things, as Brad DeLong points out, LBS seems confused about the difference between levels and rates of change. Incidentally, LBS is regarded at the ECB as a deep thinker; I have no idea why.
As it happens, the excellent David Altig Mike Bryan [on Dave's blog, but Bryan did the post] has just posted some very useful analytics on core versus headline inflation. His question is, which backward-looking inflation measure should you look at if you want to predict headline inflation over the medium term, defined as the next 36 months. Here's his graph:
This says that if you want to predict inflation over the next three years, you really don't want to look just at inflation over the past 3 months or 6 months; you really want to look at inflation over the past three years. And if for whatever reason you want to use a shorter historical period -- say, because you think there may have been some big policy shifts -- you should use core inflation, not headline.
Here's a plot of actual data that may be helpful: 36-month core and headline inflation rates in the United States.
You can see that during the mid-2000s, 36-month headline inflation was a better predictor of its own future because the core failed to pick up the sustained rise in commodity prices -- but this went into reverse when the commodity boom of 2007-2008 went bust.
But the real point here is that if you want to use headline inflation as a forecast, you want to use a fairly long lag, such as headline inflation over the past 3 years. And headline inflation over the past three years has been low.
The point is that there's a kind of bait-and-switch on the part of inflationistas. They point to results suggesting that you can use headline inflation to make medium-term forecasts about as well as using core inflation -- results that depend on not using high-frequency inflation data, but instead using multi-year averages. And then they demand tight-money policies on the basis of short-term inflation measures, when the longer-term measures that "work" statistically aren't going anywhere.
Do this right, and whichever inflation measure you prefer, there's no reason to tighten.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



67 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: The Falcones in Full

BYLINE: CHRIS V. NICHOLSON


HIGHLIGHT: Philip A. Falcone makes the news almost as often as he makes money, and he is at it again, as he and his wife, Lisa Maria, bare all to Bethany McLean at Vanity Fair. 

 BODY:
Philip A. Falcone makes the news almost as often as he makes money, and he is at it again, as he and his wife, Lisa Maria, bare all to Bethany McLean for an upcoming article in Vanity Fair.
Mr. Falcone, a former trader at Barclays Capital, hit the big time alongside John A. Paulson and Greg Lippmann by betting against subprime credit in 2007. The wager made him a billionaire sitting atop a fund, Harbinger Capital Partners, that once managed up to $26 billion in assets.
Since then, however, he has hit some choppy water. Mr. Falcone, of the inquiry made by the S.E.C. into the loan he took from Harbinger in 2008, said to Vanity Fair:
"It was permissible, but I wouldn't advise another fund to do it!" 
The loan, and other missteps, have rankled some players in finance. One hedge fund investor told Vanity Fair: 
"He has a reputation for being stubborn, volatile and aggressive, and now the word on the Street is that, well, maybe you can't trust him, either."
"These businesses, all they are is client trust. The money can vanish overnight. Once you ding a guy's reputation, and there's the perception that he broke that trust, it is virtually impossible to get it back."
Mr. Falcone is plowing ahead regardless of the naysayers, he said to the magazine.
"I have always kept the bulk of my money, and I mean the bulk of my money, in the fund." 
"How can anyone possibly say my interests aren't aligned with theirs?"
Their recent wealth has ushered Mr. Falcone and his wife into New York cultural and philanthropic circles, and the collision of new money and old manners has raised eyebrows, and hackles. Ms. Falcone told Vanity Fair the lukewarm reception has come as a bit of a shock. 
"When I hear people bashing Philip, I think, But he's the American Dream!"
 "I'm the girl from Harlem and he's the boy from Chisholm, and now we've got all this stuff. I never got criticized in Harlem, then I came to this side. It's, like, Wow. Why aren't you embracing me? Is it that Philip and I are the Beverly Hillbillies?"

        
Many Hedge Funds Still Smarting From the Financial Crisis
        
Harbinger to Sell Remaining Inmarsat Stake

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%) Bethany McLean; Harbinger Capital Partners; Philip A. Falcone; Falcone, Philip A; McLean, Bethany; Vanity Fair; Financial Services; Hedge Funds

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Harbinger Capital Partners; Vanity Fair

PERSON: PHILIP FALCONE (92%) Falcone, Philip A; McLean, Bethany

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



68 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Looks to Regain Footing as I.P.O. Leader

BYLINE: BETTINA WASSENER


HIGHLIGHT: The sudden burst of activity on the Hong Kong stock market shows that recent worries over China's economic slowdown is fading as investors focus on Asia. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - Is Hong Kong, the global leader for initial public offerings in 2009 and 2010, in danger of losing its coveted title this year?
The stock market here has had an underwhelming start to 2011 compared with its Western rivals. By the end of May, there were 21 I.P.O.'s in Hong Kong, raising a total of $8.8 billion. New York notched 43 transactions and $23.8 billion, according to data compiled by Thomson Reuters.
Although a flurry of debuts over the next few weeks, including those from Samsonite and Prada, are expected to raise billions of dollars, Hong Kong will find it tough to hold on to the top spot given the strong showing in the United States.
The Nasdaq and New York Stock Exchange are benefiting from a boom in social media companies that are going public, like LinkedIn and Yandex. On Thursday, Groupon filed for its highly anticipated offering, which could value the company at nearly $30 billion.
Still, the sudden burst of activity in Hong Kong shows that recent worries over China's economic slowdown and the relatively poor performance of many regional stock exchanges is fading. Instead investors are focusing on the prospects of companies that are heavily exposed to fast-growing Asia.
"There is still a lot of cash around," said Kester Ng, head of equity capital and derivatives markets at J.P. Morgan for the Asia-Pacific region. "The risk appetite right now is not as pronounced as it was late last year, and issuers currently may not be able to get the valuations they would like. But if you have the right kind of asset in the right sector, you can definitely get deals away."
Resource companies and luxury goods, he added, are likely to continue to do well, as investors look to capitalize on Asia's ravenous demand for commodities and the rising affluence in the region. Huaneng Renewables, a Chinese wind power company, is planning to announce on June 9 its pricing for a $1 billion listing. Shares in MGM China, whose main asset is a giant hotel and casino in the booming gambling hub of Macao, is set to begin trading on the Hong Kong exchange on Friday. The offering raised $1.5 billion.
The strong economy is also a big reason why overseas companies are looking to Hong Kong for their market debuts.
Samsonite, which is owned by the British private equity group CVC Capital Partners, announced plans on Thursday for a Hong Kong listing that could raise as much as 11.75 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $1.5 billion, with a trading start planned for June 16.
"We want to orient the company to where the world's center of gravity is going to be in future," which means China and Hong Kong, Tim Parker, chief executive of Samsonite, said at a video news conference.
On Monday, Prada, the Italian fashion house, is due to start marketing a June 24 listing that could net $2 billion, according to a person with knowledge of the plans who spoke anonymously because the details had not been made public. Resourcehouse, a mining company owned by the Australian billionaire Clive Palmer, is expected to price its $3.6 billion Hong Kong offering on Friday.
"Some of these companies make 30 to 40 percent of their revenues or profits in China - their fastest growth is coming from here," said Justin Haik, a managing director of Morgan Stanley's global capital markets group in Hong Kong. "It is natural for such companies to list here. It gets them added visibility. And it aligns their interests with their long-term aspirations of doing business in Asia."
Tighter credit conditions in much of Asia have provided an incentive for companies to seek alternative sources of financing, like I.P.O.'s, said Emil Wolter, head of regional strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland in Singapore.
Reflecting this, many market aspirants are mainland Chinese companies. China Everbright, a Shanghai-based lender, announced plans for a listing that could raise $6 billion to $7 billion, Reuters reported this week. Haitong Securities, a brokerage firm, could raise more than $1.5 billion, according to Bloomberg News.
The attraction to list here is understandable. Much of Asia is growing rapidly, and many of its economies escaped the pain wrought by the global financial crisis. Its financial markets have grown more sophisticated. And investors in the region and elsewhere have ample cash they want to put to work in Asia.
All of this has helped Asian exchanges capture a rising share of stock market activity in recent years, with Hong Kong the standout beneficiary in terms of attracting new listings.
Two blockbuster listings in 2010 - the Agricultural Bank of China and American International Assurance, the Asian life insurance unit of American International Group - helped Hong Kong raise nearly $53 billion in I.P.O.'s by the end of December. That accounted for 19.5 percent of the global total and easily topped the $34.5 billion raised in New York, according to Thomson Reuters data.
"When it comes to supply and demand, a lot of people are looking to participate in the Asian story," said Mr. Haik of Morgan Stanley. "We've seen wealth growing across the region, and an institutional investor base - asset management firms and sovereign wealth funds - that is increasingly looking to put money into equities."

        
I.P.O. Values Samsonite Stake at Up to $1.5 Billion
        
In Hong Kong, MGM I.P.O. Prices at High End

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (85%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); WIND ENERGY (61%) Agricultural Bank of China; American International Assurance; China Everbright Bank; Clive Palmer; CVC Capital Partners; Groupon; Haitong Securities; Hong Kong; Huaneng Renewables; MGM; MGM China; Prada; Resourcehouse; Samsonite; Initial Public Offerings; Samsonite|SAMC|OTCBB; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: YANDEX NV (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); GROUPON INC (56%); CVC CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Haitong Securities; Prada; Samsonite

TICKER: YNDX (NASDAQ) (56%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%) Samsonite; SAMC; OTCBB

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (98%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MACAO (79%) Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



69 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Groupon Plans I.P.O. With $30 Billion Valuation

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Groupon, part of an elite club of social Internet companies that is fanning investor ardor for the next generation of technology giants, is planning a debut that could raise $3 billion. 

 BODY:
9:31 p.m. | Updated 
As Groupon would say, the deal is on.
The social buying site on Thursday filed to go public, a hotly anticipated debut that could raise $3 billion, according to two people close to the company who were not authorized to speak publicly. At that level, the company would be worth roughly $30 billion, surpassing the value of Google at its initial public offering.
Groupon is part of an elite club of social Internet companies that is fanning investor ardor for the next generation of technology giants. The gaming company Zynga is preparing to file for an offering that could value it at more than $10 billion, according to two people with knowledge of the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly.
Facebook, which recently raised $1.5 billion in a financing led by Goldman Sachs, is expected to file by next year. It's the giant of the group, valued at as much as $80 billion.
On Thursday, the online music service Pandora moved one step closer to the public markets by setting its I.P.O. price range at $7 to $9, according to its latest filing. Pandora plans to raise as much as $141.6 million in its offering, at a $1.4 billion valuation.
"I think its all about pent-up demand," Bing Gordon, a venture capitalist and a director of Zynga, said. "Markets are often good predictors, and I do think social is just getting started."
The first wave of new technology stocks has already incited a frenzy, prompting worry that this boom could be a bubble. Shares of LinkedIn, a company that has struggled to maintain profitability, more than doubled on its first day of trading in May. At Thursday's closing price of $78.63, it was still trading around 75 percent above its offering price.
LinkedIn's stunning debut has pushed Silicon Valley and Wall Street bankers to revise expectations higher on all types of technology offerings. According to one person close to Groupon, the company and its bankers have struggled to pinpoint the final valuation for the I.P.O. The person cautioned that it could move higher or lower based on market conditions.
"I would urge any investor to think about the fundamentals," said Sucharita Mulpuru, a Forrester Research retail analyst. "Sure Groupon could be the next Amazon, but as an investor do you have the patience to wait them out?"
Groupon, based in Chicago, has enjoyed a meteoric rise in its short life.
Shortly after its founding, Groupon notched revenue of $94 million in 2008. Two years later, it swelled to $713 million. The company - which employs more than 7,000 people and has 83 million subscribers across 43 countries - reported $644.7 million of revenue in the first quarter of 2011 alone.
As its prospects have grown, so has investor interest. In 2010, the company was worth roughly $1.4 billion, based on a fund-raising round led by the Russian firm D.S.T. Global. Groupon spurned a $6 billion takeover bid from Google in December, opting instead to raise nearly $1 billion from Fidelity Investments, T. Rowe Price and other investors.
At a $30 billion market value, Groupon would top that of Google at its market debut. Google raised $1.67 billion in August 2004, putting its value at $27 billion. (In its filing, Groupon put its I.P.O. value at $750 million, a nominal amount used to calculate the registration fee.)
In a letter to prospective shareholders, Groupon's chief executive, Andrew D. Mason, highlighted the company's growth opportunities but cautioned investors to temper their profit expectations.
"In the past, we've made investments in growth that turned a healthy forecasted quarterly profit into a sizable loss," he said. "When we see opportunities to invest in long-term growth, expect that we will pursue them regardless of certain short-term consequences."
Like many start-ups, Groupon is still struggling to turn a profit. Last year, the company's loss topped $450 million, compared with $6.9 million in 2009 and $2.2 million in 2008. The company's biggest expense is marketing. Groupon spent $263.2 million on advertising and subscriber e-mails in 2010, compared with just $4.5 million the year before.
"We cannot be certain that we will be able to attain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis," the company said in its filing. 
With less-than-ideal financials under generally accepted accounting principles, Groupon is trumpeting a nonstandard metric that excludes marketing and acquisition costs. On that basis, it reported $60.6 million in operating income last year and $81.6 million in the first quarter this year.
To some, the use of such nonstandard measures harks back to the days of the technology boom in the late 1990s, when unusual metrics like "eyeballs" were used instead of numbers like net income. Those specialized figures were often used to present a rosier picture of a company's financials, obscuring their profitability.
Groupon argues that its enormous marketing budget is both necessary now and will dwindle over time. Locked in a race for subscribers around the world, the company is willing to spend a tremendous amount of money in the short term to secure a dominant market share. It says it will cost less to maintain those subscribers over time.
As an example, Groupon said in its filing that it spent $18 million to add about 3.7 million subscribers in the second quarter last year. By March 31 of this year, those customers generated $145.3 million in revenue and $61.7 million in gross profit.
Groupon's investors and early employees stand to reap a windfall in an I.P.O.
The company's largest shareholder, its co-founder and board member Eric P. Lefkofsky, owns 64.1 million shares, or roughly 21.6 percent of the company's Class A common stock - a stake that would be worth billions of dollars. The venture capital firm, Accel Partners, which invested in Groupon in November 2009, owns a 5.6 percent stake. Mr. Mason, who made $184,599 last year, controls 7.7 percent of company's Class A shares.
While Class A shares will be sold in the I.P.O., Mr. Mason, Mr. Lefkofsky and Bradley Keywell, a co-founder and director will hold on to all of Groupon's Class B shares. The dual-class stock structure, already in place at Facebook and Google, allows founders to effectively maintain control of their companies while still trading in the public markets.
The rush to go public, at increasingly higher valuations, has fanned concerns that the market is, once again, starting to feel bubbly.
Groupon, which will trade under the ticker "GRPN," has hired Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse as underwriters for the offering.
Claire Cain Miller and Ben Protess contributed reporting.

        
The Money Network
        
Valuing LinkedIn and Social Networking

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); GROUP BUYING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%) Andrew Mason; Bradley Keywell; Eric P. Lefkofsky; Facebook; Groupon; LinkedIn; Social Networking; Initial Public Offerings; Social Networking (Internet); I.P.O./Offerings; Media; Retail/Leisure; Technology; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Groupon

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); GS (NYSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



70 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: BankUnited Buys a New York Bank

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: The lender, taken over by private equity firms during the financial crisis, takes a step toward expanding beyond Florida with the deal for Herald National Bank. 

 BODY:
BankUnited, a Florida lender that was taken over by private equity firms during the financial crisis, has reached a deal to acquire Herald National Bank of New York for $71.4 million.
Under the terms of the deal, Herald National shareholders can choose cash or stock worth $1.35 plus the value of 0.0990 BankUnited share. The deal is worth 1.1 times Herald National's book value when subtracting a deferred tax assets. 
"The acquisition of Herald is an important step toward expanding the reach of BankUnited into the New York market," Rajinder P. Singh, BankUnited's chief operating officer, said in a statement. 
BankUnited currently serves 13 Florida counties through more than 80 branches, but its management has New York roots. Its chief executive, John Kanas, ran North Fork Bancorp on Long Island before its $14.6 billion sale to Capital One. 
BankUnited was closed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in 2009 and sold to a consortium that included Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the Blackstone Group, the Carlyle Group and Centerbridge Partners. The bank went public in January, raising $780 million. 
Herald National has three offices in Manhattan, one in Brooklyn and one on Long Island.
BankUnited was advised by the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Herald National was advised by and received a fairness opinion from Sandler O'Neill and was advised by the law firm of Luse Gorman Pomerenk & Schick.

        
BankUnited Expected to File for I.P.O. This Week
        
BankUnited Increases Plans for I.P.O.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%) BankUnited; Blackstone Group; Carlyle Group; Centerbridge Partners; Herald National Bank; John Kanas; Luse Gorman Pomerenk & Schick; Sandler O'Neill; Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom; Wilbur L. Ross Jr.; Banking and Financial Institutions; Manhattan (NYC); Herald National Bank|HNB|AMEX; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions; Private Equity

COMPANY: BANKUNITED FINANCIAL CORP (92%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (84%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); LUSE GORMAN POMERENK & SCHICK PC (66%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%) BankUnited; Herald National Bank

TICKER: BKU (NYSE) (92%); COF (NYSE) (83%); BX (NYSE) (58%); CG (NASDAQ) (55%) Herald National Bank; HNB; AMEX

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



71 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: On the Maddeningly Inexact Relationship Between Unemployment and Re-Election

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Historically, the relationship between the unemployment rate and a president's performance at the next election is complicated and tenuous.

 BODY:
Make no mistake: the higher the unemployment rate in November 2012, the less likely President Obama is to win a second term.But we should be careful about asserting that there is any particular threshold at which Mr. Obama would go from favorite to underdog, or any magic number at which his re-election would either become impossible or a fait accompli. Historically, the relationship between the unemployment rate and a president's chances of being re-elected is complicated and tenuous.An article in today's Times notes, for example, that "no American president since Franklin Delano Roosevelt has won a second term in office when the unemployment rate on Election Day topped 7.2 percent." That was the unemployment rate in November 1984, when Ronald Reagan resoundingly won a second term.This type of data may be of limited use for predictive purposes, however. Reagan won re-election by 18 points, suggesting that he had quite a bit of slack. An unemployment rate of 7.5 percent or even higher would presumably have been good enough to win him another term.It's also not obvious that Roosevelt should be excluded from the calculus, particularly given that the economic crisis the country is working its way out of now is the most severe since his administration. He won re-election in 1936 with an unemployment rate of 16.6 percent, and again in 1940 with a rate of 14.6 percent.For Roosevelt, at least, the unemployment rate was headed in the right direction: down from 19.8 percent in 1933, the year he took office. This was also true for Reagan, although only barely so: he inherited an unemployment rate of 7.5 percent from Jimmy Carter, seeing it drop to 7.2 percent in time for his re-election.The unemployment rate when Mr. Obama took office was 7.8 percent -- and he may not follow in his predecessors' footsteps by leaving it in a better place than he found it. As of last month, private forecasters like Wells Fargo and The Wall Street Journal's forecasting panel were anticipating an unemployment rate close to 7.8 percent by late 2012. But those forecasts preceded a bevy of poor economic reports, which may lead some economists to lower their estimates.Looking at unemployment in this way -- as the rate of change over a president's term -- is probably the more worthwhile approach. But it, too, is not always reliable. Unemployment increased by 1.9 percentage points over the course of Richard M. Nixon's first term, but he won re-election easily. It also increased in George W. Bush's and Dwight D. Eisenhower's first terms, and their re-election bids were also successful. The unemployment rate fell to 3.9 percent from 5.3 percent, meanwhile, in Bill Clinton's second term -- but his vice president, Al Gore, could not beat Mr. Bush in the Electoral College.There are also cases in which the data behaved more intuitively: Jimmy Carter and the elder George Bush all faced high unemployment rates when they lost their re-election bids, as did Gerald R. Ford in 1976, and that was surely a factor in their defeats. But historically, the correlation between the unemployment rate and a president's performance on Election Day has been essentially zero.In the chart below, I've provided unemployment data for the last century's worth of presidential elections, comparing the unemployment rate on Inauguration Day to the one that the president (or the incumbent party's candidate) faced on Election Day. Data for 1948 onward is on a monthly basis, while only annual estimates are available before then.The most straightforward application is to compare the unemployment rate to the incumbent party's performance in the popular vote. Historically, there has been no correlation between these variables:Alternatively, we can look at the change in the unemployment rate over the course of a presidential term. This does produce some positive correlation, but it's quite weak and almost entirely driven by a couple of outlying data points surrounding the Great Depression:Data from after World War II is less noisy -- both in terms of the fluctuations in the unemployment rate and the presidential results. But the correlations are not improved any:Another approach is to look only at those cases in which a president, like Mr. Obama, served a full, four-year elected term and was seeking a second one. This cuts the number of data points down from 25 to 11. It does not, however, improve the correlations much, although the second graph -- which evaluates the change in the unemployment rate for elected presidents seeking a second term -- is somewhat more promising.Perhaps if you go through enough iterations of this exercise -- which range of years you look at, which presidents you consider to be incumbents and which you don't, where you define the start point and endpoint of a president's term, which of the several unemployment data series that you use -- you can get the correlations up a bit higher. But almost no matter what you do -- even if you're more or less deliberately cherry-picking -- they range from zero to fairly weak.So does that mean that the unemployment rate should just be ignored and that the media's focus on it is misplaced?No, I think that's emphatically the wrong interpretation. The data is not really strong enough to prove there is a relationship -- but because there are a relatively limited number of data points, it is also not strong enough to disprove that there is a relationship. In these cases, it is entirely permissible to default to common sense, which is that the unemployment rate should have some effect on a president's re-election chances.The problem is that whatever signal there is gets filtered through an awful lot of noise. Consider: The unemployment rate itself is subject to fairly significant measurement error. Voters will interpret the unemployment rate in different ways, and assign the president varying amounts of credit or blame for it. The unemployment rate is but one of a number of salient economic indicators. Economic performance is but one of the ways that voters evaluate a president. Voters' evaluation of a president is important, but they also consider the the strength of a president's opponents, including third-party alternatives in some elections.If you could hold each of these other factors constant, you could come to a more confident conclusion about how much each tick in the unemployment rate affects Mr. Obama's re-election odds. But the real world is not set up with these sorts of experiments in mind, and since presidential elections are infrequent, the likelihood that truly comparable cases will exist the historical data is relatively low.Some political scientists prefer other economic indicators to the unemployment rate, and there is evidence that measures like growth in real disposable income do a better job of predicting election results. Here too, however, we ought to be cautious. There are literally thousands of plausible models that one might build, using different economic indicators measured in different ways and over different time periods, taken alone or in combination with one another, and applied to different subsets of elections that are deemed to be relevant. Some of these models, through chance alone, will produce a better fit on the historical data -- but the relationships may be spurious and their predictive power will sometimes not be as strong as claimed. Even the most thoughtful, well-designed models -- I like this one, for instance -- can see their performance deteriorate quite substantially if small, seemingly benign changes are made to their assumptions.Working with data like this gets tricky. We have a good sense for the cards that Mr. Obama holds -- the different factors that will work for and against him -- but our idea of how the hand will play out is quite fuzzy, and the rules of the game may change from election to election. Clearly, Mr. Obama's odds will be impaired if his hand contains more deuces and treys than aces and kings -- and that, in essence, is what weaker data from the labor sector implies for him. But this is an inexact science -- more so than either journalists or political scientists tend to acknowledge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STATISTICS (78%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Elections; Presidential Election of 2012; Unemployment

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (63%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



72 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Faults Administration Spill Response

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: A Republican committee chairman says the administration appeared more concerned about protecting its own media profile and avoiding responsibility for recovery efforts than protecting gulf jobs and livelihoods.

 BODY:
 Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, charged Thursday that the Obama administration bungled the response to the Deep Water Horizon explosion and oil spill last year. 
 Brandishing a report prepared for his committee, Mr. Issa said that the administration had ceded too much control over cleanup operations to BP, imposed a harsh and costly moratorium on offshore drilling and failed to insure that affected Gulf Coast residents received fair and prompt compensation for their losses.
 "The mosaic of evidence presents a troubling picture," Mr. Issa said in remarks in advance of a hearing on Thursday on the spill response. "Much of the suffering and loss from the spill was made worse by the poor decisions of administration officials. At times, the administration actively hindered the efforts of local officials and others with expertise in protecting the region's fragile ecosystem. 
"Throughout, the administration appeared more concerned about protecting its own media profile and avoiding any direct responsibility for recovery efforts than it did about protecting the jobs and livelihoods of millions of Americans living in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida." The panel's findings and Mr. Issa's accusations reflect a year of tension between state and local officials in the gulf and federal officials in Washington. There have been frictions over whether to build sand berms to keep the oil away from wetlands and beaches and over the level of payments due fishermen, resort owners and drilling support vessels. Congressional Republicans and oil industry officials have been harshly critical of the economic and job impacts of the drilling moratorium.
 Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, who appeared at Thursday's hearing, criticized the Coast Guard response, saying that its communications with local officials and National Guard units responding to the spill were poor until he stepped in. 
 He described the BP oil spill as an "economic catastrophe for Mississippi" affecting tourism, commercial fishing, oil field services and real estate values. He also faulted the drilling moratorium. "It not only cost jobs in all the gulf states, it hurt the economy nationally by reducing domestic oil production," Mr. Barbour said in testimony prepared for the hearing. "We consider the shutdown of gulf drilling a serious mistake for the country as well as our states." 
Administration officials defended their handling of the spill and its aftermath. Michael R. Bromwich, director of the Interior Department's Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, told the committee that the administration had secured $1 billion from BP to speed gulf restoration efforts and was working to accelerate handling of damage claims.
 He also noted that the agency had approved 55 shallow water permits and 15 deep-water permits since the Deepwater Horizon accident, even as it put in place stricter safety and environmental safeguards. He said that the reorganization of the former Minerals Management Service was nearly complete and followed the recommendations of the presidential commission that investigated the spill as well as previous reports on shortcomings in offshore regulation.

        
 Deadline Slips on an Oil Spill Report
        
Panel Urges Tougher Offshore Regulation
        
Fire, Brimstone and Sympathy: The New Drilling Czar
        
Offshore Drilling: To Pause or Not to Pause
        
On Our Radar: 'Coast Is Clear,' Says Governor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); OIL SPILLS (90%); OCEANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BEACHES (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (76%); WATER RIGHTS (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (72%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); WETLANDS (68%); RESORTS (67%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (64%) Darrell Issa; Deepwater Horizon accident; Gov. Haley Barbour; Gulf of Mexico; Michael R. Bromwich; Obama Administration; oil spill; Barbour, Haley; Bromwich, Michael R; Issa, Darrell E; BP Plc; Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enfor; Gulf Coast Claims Facility; House of Representatives; House Oversight and Government Reform Committee; Interior Department; Minerals Management Service; United States Coast Guard; Alabama; Florida; Louisiana; Mississippi; BP Plc|BP|NYSE; Breaking News; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (84%); US COAST GUARD (84%) BP Plc; Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enfor; Gulf Coast Claims Facility; House of Representatives; House Oversight and Government Reform Committee; Interior Department; Minerals Management Service; United States Coast Guard

TICKER: BP Plc; BP; NYSE

PERSON: DARRELL E ISSA (93%); HALEY BARBOUR (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%) Barbour, Haley; Bromwich, Michael R; Issa, Darrell E

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Alabama; Florida; Gulf of Mexico; Louisiana; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



73 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Doppelgnger Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A lawsuit claims that a spot for Audi's A6 Avant wagon, shot in Berlin, evokes the Eminem-anchored "Imported from Detroit" Chrysler ad to an unlawful degree.

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 At a press event last month, Audi screened a promotional video featuring its restyled A6 Avant wagon being driven through an evocatively lit Berlin. The spot bore a strong likeness to the "Imported from Detroit" ad for the Chrysler 200 sedan, featuring Eminem, that aired during Super Bowl XLV. A lawsuit has since been brought by Eight Mile Style, the rights owner of the theme to "Lose Yourself," which played in the Chrysler ad, accusing Audi AG of unlicensed use of the song. The music in question begins at the 30-second mark in the Audi spot. (Adweek)
 Last month, for the first time since 2006, General Motors, Ford and Chrysler ranked first, second and third in terms of sales in the United States. However, overall car and truck sales in May were at their lowest levels of the year, which analysts attributed to weakening consumer confidence and higher prices. Additionally, shortages of some Japanese models contributed to the depressed sales. Meanwhile, Volkswagen reported sales gains of 24 percent, Hyundai posted a 21 percent rise and Kia sales increased 53 percent. (The New York Times)
 Incentives for new-car purchases were at their lowest in nine years last month, contributing to a significant increase in the average transaction price for passenger cars and trucks. TrueCar stated that the year over year increase from May 2010 to May 2011 was $608. The average incentive, meanwhile, dropped from $2,839 a year ago to $2,017 last month. Following a month of depressed sales, incentives are expected to return this month, the report said. (TrueCar)
 Volkswagen, which marked the 35th anniversary of its GTI this week with a special-edition model limited to European markets, is showing a Golf R Cabriolet concept at Worthersee, Austria, where the world's largest GTI club meet is taking place. The soft-top concept produces 270 horsepower, 14 more than estimates for the Golf R hardtop bound for the United States early next year. (AutoEvolution)
 Ford F-150 pickups equipped with V-6 engines outpaced sales of their V-8 counterparts in May, accounting for 55 percent of total sales for the segment-leading pickup. The 3.5-liter EcoBoost V-6 contributed 41 percent, while the 3.5-liter naturally aspirated V-6 unit added an additional 14 percent. (PickupTrucks.com)
 Following an espionage scandal, Carlos Ghosn, the Renault-Nissan chairman, was asked this week by French officials to spend more time in Renault's home market. The French government owns a 15 percent stake in Renault, and according to Automotive News Europe, officials asked Mr. Ghosn to be more present in France as a condition of appointing Carlos Tavares, the former Nissan Americas head, to be his new deputy. (Automotive News Europe)

        
Chrysler Exports 'Imported From Detroit' to New York
        
Detroit News Auto Critic Resigns After Dealer Complaint Results in Changes to Review
        
Chrysler C.E.O. Presents United Front With 200, 300 and Town & Country
        
Wheelies: The Fiat-Effect Edition
        
Wheelies: The Choosing-Sides Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); CONCEPT CARS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); PICKUP TRUCKS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (71%); ESPIONAGE (70%); SALES FIGURES (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); SCANDALS (50%) Audi A6; Chrysler 200; Super Bowl; Automobiles; advertising; Industry News

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); AUDI AG (94%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); TRUECAR INC (54%)

TICKER: NSU (FRA) (94%); RNO (PAR) (84%); RNO (BIT) (84%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (90%); AUSTRIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



74 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Romney Makes Official His Run for President

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney made his second bid for the presidency official Thursday with a broadside against President Obama and a call for a new economic agenda.

 BODY:
2:17 p.m. | Updated STRATHAM, N.H. - Declaring America to be broken, Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, on Thursday harshly criticized President Obama and pitched himself as the turnaround specialist that the country needs as he formally began his second run for president.
Mr. Romney accused Mr. Obama of failing to live up to the promise of economic recovery he made during his 2008 campaign. And he blamed the president for high unemployment, rising gasoline prices, falling home values and a soaring national debt.
"At the time, we didn't know what sort of a president he would make," Mr. Romney said as he made his announcement from a family farm in New Hampshire. "Now, in the third year of his four-year term, we have more than promises and slogans to go by. Barack Obama has failed America."
The attacks on Mr. Obama promise to be a centerpiece of Mr. Romney's campaign as he seeks to present himself as the inevitable choice for Republicans eager to reclaim the White House. In his speech on Thursday, he pledged, without hesitance, to repeal the president's health care reforms.
"We will return responsibility and authority to the states for dozens of government programs - and that begins with a complete repeal of Obamacare," he said in his speech. "From my first day in office my No. 1 job will be to see that America once again is No. 1 in job creation."
Mr. Romney made his candidacy official at a family farm, where he invited supporters and media to a "Cookout With Mitt and Ann." Under clear but windy skies and with tractors and hay bales as a backdrop, Mr. Romney hopes to send the message that he intends to win New Hampshire's first-in-the-nation primary.
The choice of the Bittersweet Farm for his announcement is an interesting one for Mr. Romney, who regularly argues for a smaller federal government that spends less. The rolling green hills of the farm were preserved in recent years in part with $1 million in federal money, according to a recent report in Seacoast Online.
A spokesman for Mr. Romney's campaign told The Times's John Harwood that "I don't think it's fair to call it a federally subsidized backdrop. It's a nice farm in New Hampshire, a landmark."
Mr. Romney has emerged as the front-runner for the Republican nomination after reassembling a powerful fund-raising apparatus and an extensive campaign operation. But he faces tough questions from conservatives about the health care plan he pushed through as governor.
Democrats are already firing back at his economic argument, casting Mr. Romney as a flip-flopper who takes positions out of convenience, not principle in an Internet video released Thursday morning, the Democratic National Committee.
Mr. Romney is "going into this campaign with the same fatal flaws that doomed him the first time around," said Brad Woodhouse, a Democratic National Committee spokesman. "That he's seen as a wishy-washy, flip-flopping politician who lacks any core convictions or principles and who you simply can't trust to shoot straight with you."
Mr. Romney's path to the presidency must first go through his Republican rivals, who are eager to steal the spotlight. Even as he spoke, his rivals were on the move. Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska, criticized Mr. Romney's Massachusetts health care plan even as her "One Nation" bus tour headed toward the coastal town of Portsmouth for a clambake Thursday evening.
"In my opinion, any mandate coming from government is not a good thing, so obviously ... there will be more the explanation coming from former governor, Romney, on his support for government mandates," Ms. Palin told reporters in Boston, taking aim at Mr. Romney's past support for a requirement that individuals in his state buy health insurance.
"It's tough for a lot of us independent Americans to accept, because we have great faith in the private sectors and our own families," Ms. Palin said. "And our own businessmen and women making decisions for ourselves. Not any level of government telling us what to do."
Asked on Thursday what he thought about Ms. Palin's arrival in New Hampshire, Mr. Romney said, "I think it's great. New Hampshire is action central today." In addition to Ms. Palin, Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, was also in New Hampshire on Thursday, speaking to a local Republican committee.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, arrives this weekend for several days in the Granite State. And Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, has said he will compete aggressively in New Hampshire.
Mr. Romney made no mention of his potential rivals. Instead, he painted a picture of a country that is in crisis. He said that he "believes in America," but said it is suffering from the leadership of the current administration. "We look at our country and we know in our hearts that things aren't right, and they're not getting better," he said.

        
Pawlenty (Sort Of) Endorses Ryan Plan 
        
Palin to Begin Public Tour This Weekend
        
Cheer Up, Republicans, the 2012 Field Isn't That Bad
        
Obama Campaign Cultivates Clinton Donors
        
Pawlenty Officially Declares Candidacy for President 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (66%); INTERNET VIDEO (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (56%); GASOLINE PRICES (56%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%) 2012 presidential campaign; Romney, Mitt; New Hampshire; Elections

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



75 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Unemployment

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
Today's Times The latest job numbers, which will be published on Friday, are expected to provide fresh cause for concern in the White House, especially since no American president since Franklin Delano Roosevelt has won a second term in office when the unemployment rate on Election Day topped 7.2 percent. With the election 17 months away, the White House has offered no grand plans to stimulate growth or create millions of new jobs, The Times's Binyamin Appelbaum reports. Instead, he says, the administration is focused on minimizing and postponing inevitable cuts in federal spending to prevent the loss of more jobs.
 Speaker John A. Boehner said on Wednesday that Congress and the White House should try to reach an agreement within the next month that would combine an increase in the federal debt limit with deep spending cuts, the Times's Carl Hulse and Jackie Calmes report. Mr. Boehner said that a bipartisan team of lawmakers have been meeting with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to fashion a budget deal, but at its current pace, it could brush up against the August deadline.
 Representative Anthony D. Weiner continued to insist that he had not sent out a suggestive photograph from his Twitter account. But The Times's Ray Hernandez, chronicling the New York Democrat's efforts to make the story go away, reports that Mr. Weiner also said he could not say if he was the person in the photo. 
 There are no throngs of reporters trailing behind the Tim Pawlenty campaign, nor is there time for a sightseeing excursion like Sarah Palin's "One Nation" bus tour. The former governor of Minnesota is instead listening to voters vent on immigration, the national debt and weather the Republican Party could actually defeat President Obama. The Times's Jeff Zeleny follows Mr. Pawlenty through the trenches of running for president the old-fashioned way, going through the unglamorous rigors of building a campaign one voter at a time in the age of frenzied media and celebrity political culture. Federal law bars the use of Medicaid money to pay for an abortion except in certain cases of rape, incest or danger to the life of a pregnant woman. A new law in the State of Indiana now goes much further, cutting off money for Planned Parenthood clinics providing health care to low-income women on Medicaid and prohibiting state agencies from entering contracts with entities that perform abortions. While the Obama administration has prohibited the state from carrying out the new law, officials in Indiana said Wednesday night that they were not backing down and intended to continue enforcing the measure, the Times's Robert Pear reports. 
Around the Web Politico has a nifty guide to decoding Wednesday's meeting between Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin and President Obama. Take a look behind both sides of the Medicare talking points.Happenings around Washington First Lady Michelle Obama will join Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to unveil a new food icon intended to help consumers make healthier food choices. It will replace the pyramid image as the government's primary food group symbol. In the evening, the president and first lady will attend the Pritzker Architecture Prize event at the Andrew Mellon Auditorium.

        
The Early Word: Rejected
        
The Early Word: Commemorations
        
The Weekend Word: Brash
        
The Early Word: Setting a Precedent
        
The Early Word: Heated

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); MEDICARE (75%); DEBT CEILING (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (65%); MEDICAID (65%); ABORTION (65%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); JOHN BOEHNER (72%); JOE BIDEN (57%); TIM PAWLENTY (57%); ANTHONY D WEINER (57%); SARAH PALIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



76 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: The Unbearable Cynicism of Being Mitt

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Pretending to be an ignorant extremist. 

 BODY:
Talking Points has a preview of Mitt Romney's official I'm-running-for-president speech. He's going to say that "We are only inches away from ceasing to be a free market economy," and pledge to keep federal spending under 20 percent of GDP.
Romney is not a stupid man; nor is he, as best one can tell, temperamentally an extremist. So he has to know that he's talking total nonsense. The only major expansion of the state Obama is pursuing is a health care plan that is, ahem, essentially identical to what Romney did in Massachusetts. And given the realities of the federal budget -- the federal government is basically an insurance company for old people with an army on the side, and the baby boomers are becoming seniors -- the only way to keep federal spending below 20 percent of GDP would be to impose savage cuts on Medicare and Social Security.
But Romney is willing to pretend to be an ignorant extremist to have any chance of getting the Republican nomination. So this ends up being a character issue: do you want a man that cynical in the White House?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); AGING (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



77 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Said to Get Subpoena Over Its Role in Crisis

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Goldman Sachs has received a subpoena from the office of the Manhattan district attorney, which is investigating the firm's role in the financial crisis, say people briefed on the matter. 

 BODY:
9:21 p.m. | Updated 
The bad news just keeps on coming for Goldman Sachs. 
The Wall Street investment bank has received a subpoena from the office of the Manhattan district attorney, which is investigating Goldman's role in the financial crisis, said one person familiar with the subpoena.
It comes amid increased enforcement scrutiny of the company, which has faced blistering criticism that it shorted - or bet against - the mortgage market before it collapsed and that it knowingly sold bundles of bad mortgages to its clients. Goldman denies these accusations. 
The inquiry stems from a 650-page Senate report from the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations that indicated Goldman had misled clients and Congress about its practices related to mortgage-linked securities.
Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who led the Congressional inquiry, had sent his findings to the Justice Department to figure out whether executives broke the law. The agency said it was reviewing the report.
The subpoena means several government agencies may be running parallel, and possibly competing, investigations. The subpoena arrived Friday and is limited to ground covered in the Senate report, said the person familiar with it, who was not authorized to speak on the record. Subpoenas are requests for information and do not necessarily mean charges against Goldman or individuals at the company are inevitable.
Still, the development of a subpoena from the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., did not seem to surprise investors.
"This news is not unexpected," Christopher Maimone, an analyst at Standard & Poor's Equity Research, wrote in a note to clients, explaining that Senator Levin's referral had made continued investigations a near certainty.
Still, shares of Goldman fell $1.79, or 1.3 percent, to close at $134.38, though earlier in the day, before investors digested the news, its shares fell as much as 3.5 percent. Goldman shares traded above $170 at the beginning of the year.
Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, who has run the company since 2006, has privately told people recently that he has no plans to leave the company and wants to see it through this difficult period. Still, the recent subpoenas are sure to resurrect calls for a change at the top.
"You would have to think that the more these types of headlines persist, the greater pressure there will be for change," said William Tanona, an analyst at the investment bank UBS. He has previously worked at Goldman Sachs.
Whatever the outcome of the investigations, investors do not expect Goldman itself to be indicted. No firm has ever survived such a blow. E. F. Hutton & Company and Drexel Burnham Lambert collapsed after being indicted in the 1980s before the cases even went to trial.
Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said in a note to investors on Tuesday that he believed that the government might seek to reach a settlement with Goldman.
"In a worst case environment, we would expect a 'too big to fail' bank such as Goldman to be offered a deferred-prosecution agreement, pay a significant fine and submit to a federal monitor in lieu of a criminal charge," he wrote.
The subpoena came almost two weeks after lawyers for Goldman Sachs met with the office of the attorney general of New York for an "exploratory" meeting about the Senate report, the people said.
In a statement, Goldman Sachs said: "We don't comment on specific regulatory or legal issues, but subpoenas are a normal part of the information request process and, of course, when we receive them we cooperate fully."
Goldman was one of the survivors of the financial crisis. But it has come under fire from the public and Washington since then. It was first attacked for its outsize pay packages, which came at a time when most of America was still reeling from the crisis. Then, in April 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil fraud suit against the company. Goldman was accused of creating a mortgage product that was intended to fail. The company settled with the S.E.C., agreeing to pay $550 million without admitting or denying guilt. 
It was one of the darkest chapters in the company's 142-year history, and it catapulted Goldman into the public spotlight, a place the secretive company was unaccustomed to. Rolling Stone magazine, hardly a first read on Wall Street, began writing regularly about the firm, calling it a "vampire squid."

        
Why Goldman Is Not a Simple Culprit in the Financial Crisis Report
        
Goldman Spins Away From Success

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (98%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%) Carl Levin; Cyrus R. Vance Jr.; Financial Crisis; Goldman Sachs; Manhattan District Attorney; Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (60%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (60%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (79%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



78 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: As Missouri River Rises, Control Efforts Take Shape

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER; Campbell Robertson contributed reporting from New Orleans.

 BODY:
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Adding to an already brutal season of flooding, another major waterway -- this time, the Missouri River -- is rising because of record rain and snow, meaning major flooding is likely from the headwaters in Montana to where it flows into the still-swollen Mississippi River.
The sharp rise of the upper Missouri has forced officials to release unprecedented amounts of water from a series of dams that normally control the flow of the river, leading to the evacuations of homes and the construction of emergency levees in downriver communities, including the capital cities of North Dakota and South Dakota. The river is expected to remain at high levels for at least six weeks. 
''Many communities along the river will experience flooding in proportions they haven't seen,'' said Jody Farhat, chief of the Missouri River Basin water management division of the Army Corps of Engineers.
Navigated by the explorers Lewis and Clark as they journeyed west through the middle of the country, the Missouri River remains a vital economic and recreational hub for the Great Plains region. The flooding, especially if it lasts as long as predicted, threatens to swamp freshly planted cropland, displace thousands of residents and define a summer normally spent celebrating events like the Prairie Rose State Games in Bismarck, N.D.
Floods, like the record one that soaked communities along the Mississippi River last month, are often slow, unfolding disasters. Despite its magnitude, this one is provoking less suspense because the release of water is being regulated by the Army Corps of Engineers, which has warned leaders as far away as Omaha and Kansas City as to the likely impact.
''It's very unusual to deal with a predicted flood,'' said Gov. Dennis Daugaard of South Dakota, where a number of cities have been scrambling to prepare.
Mr. Daugaard said the warning had given state and local leaders more time to build earth and sandbag barriers, like those put up around Pierre, Fort Pierre and Dakota Dunes. He called for voluntary evacuations of affected areas in all three towns.
''They don't call it the Mighty Missouri for nothing,'' he added.
There are six major dams along the upper stretch of the river that allow federal officials to slow down the sometimes violent rush of water that accompanies the melting snowpack in the region.
This year, though, torrential rains unexpectedly filled the reservoir to levels that had been reserved for a record-breaking snowpack, forcing the dams to begin releasing water to make room for the coming melt.
''We still have snow, lots of it and it's just now starting to melt,'' said Kevin Low, a river forecaster with the National Weather Service. Mr. Low said the entire river was likely to remain ''above to well above flood stage'' for weeks.
Each of the dams has begun releasing more water than at any time since the system was built more than a half century ago, and is scheduled to continue increasing the discharge in the coming days to the maximum level.
That influx of water, which represents as much as a fivefold increase over the normal flow into the river, is scheduled to remain at the maximum level for at least six more weeks. More rain or a fast melt would aggravate the risk.
''Even though we have these historic releases, the dams are continuing to provide some flood-risk reduction,'' Ms. Farhat said.
The threat from the river provoked a mix of reactions in the states that it passes through. Al Berndt, the assistant director of the Nebraska Emergency Management Agency, said his many concerns included charts that showed that 10 of 14 levee systems could be topped, as well as the possible impact on two nuclear power plants along the river, both of which are taking protective measures.
Mayor Jim Suttle of Omaha, however, was confident that a local levee system that reaches well above the highest predicted levels would keep the city dry, particularly given the advance notice that has allowed workers time to fortify the wastewater treatment plant.
''It let us plan,'' Mr. Suttle said. ''Plan the work and work the plan. That's why I can say, in all candor, we're going to proceed with business as usual.''
Even as the Missouri continued to rise, the experience along the Mississippi River offered reason for both fear and hope. In southern Louisiana, evacuation orders were lifted and residents were returning; some found their homes destroyed, others undisturbed. The flooding threat is not over -- and waters have been slow to recede in parts of the Delta -- but it has been far less damaging than initially feared.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the South Dakota Army National Guard placed sandbags along the banks of the Missouri River in Dakota Dunes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP: Some areas along the Missouri River have been evacuated. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (91%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); WEATHER (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); ARMIES (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%)

PERSON: DENNIS DAUGAARD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (91%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (79%); PIERRE, SD, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (73%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



79 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 2759 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUSO and SUNITA REDDY

 BODY:
Around Town
Museums and Sites
Bartow-Pell Mansion Museum (Friday) The Primavera Consort will play music of the Baroque period, with works by Vivaldi, Telemann, Handel and Bach; at 7 p.m. Reservations are requested: (718) 885-1461. 895 Shore Road North, Pelham Bay Park, the Bronx , bartowpellmansionmuseum.org; $8, $5 for 65+ and students, and free for members.20110602
Cocktails@Cooper-Hewitt (Saturday) A special evening of art and entertainment with DJ Shalako; 6 to 9 p.m. The series typically runs on Thursday nights. Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum, Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden, 2 East 91st Street, Manhattan , (212) 849-8349, cooperhewitt.org; $15, or $10 for students; refreshments are additional.20110602
Museum of the City of New York (Wednesday) A panel discussion on the changing character of Greenwich Village and what its future may hold, with community leaders, historians and urban planners; at 6:30 p.m. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street , (212) 534-1672, mcny.org; $12, $8 for 62+ and students, and $6 for members; $2 charge for walk-ins.20110602 
Gardens
New York Botanical Garden (Friday through Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday) ''Spanish Paradise: Gardens of the Alhambra'' offers the sights and smells of a visit to the 14th-century palace, with displays of poetry and paintings included among the flowers. (Through Aug. 21.) Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Bronx River Parkway, Exit 7W, Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx , (718) 817-8700, nybg.org; $20; $18 for students and 65+; $8 for children 2-12; free for those under 2; parking, $12.20110602
Queens Botanical Garden (Sunday) For those who want to get their hands dirty, there will be plenty of opportunity with the cleaning and weeding planned for Community Volunteer Day; 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. And all that hard work will be rewarded with a post-cleanup celebration. Registration required: hlibraty@queensbotanical.org 43-50 Main Street, Flushing, Queens , (718) 886-3800, queensbotanical.org.20110602
Events
Celebrate Israel Parade (Sunday), beginning at 11 a.m. at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street, continuing north to East 74th Street, Manhattan. Rain or shine. salutetoisrael.com/parade.20110602
'An Evening with Kelli O'Hara' (Friday) Ms. O'Hara, who was in the Lincoln Center revival of ''South Pacific,'' will appear with a quintet; at 8 p.m., the Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan , (800) 982-2787, the-townhall-nyc.org; $45 and $50.20110602
'Films on the Green' (Friday) A free series of French films begins Friday with ''Swimming Pool, '' a 2003 film with Charlotte Rampling, directed by Francois Ozon; at 8:30 p.m. Sponsored by the Cultural Services of the French Embassy and the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, the series will run through Sept. 8 at several locations. Central Park at Cedar Hill, Fifth Avenue and 79th Street , frenchculture.org.20110602
Fourth Arts Block Benefit Party (Wednesday) With music, storytelling, dance and food; 7 to 11 p.m. Penthouse, Cooper Square Hotel, 25 Cooper Square, near Fifth Street, East Village , (212) 228-4670, fabnyc.org; $35 and $55, with proceeds to benefit arts programs in the East Village, sponsored by Fourth Arts Block.20110602
Howl! Festival 2011 (Friday through Sunday) This annual, and free, festival of the arts will celebrate a special anniversary with its opening on Friday: the 85th anniversary of Allen Ginsberg's birth (June 3, 1926). Ginsberg, the popular Beat poet and the festival's raison d'etre, died in 1997. As usual, the festival begins with a group reading of his ''Howl'' at 5 p.m. Other events include music, dance, a disco and a children's carnival. For a full schedule: howlfestival.com; Tompkins Square Park, Avenue A at Seventh Street, East Village ; free.20110602
International Cultures Festival (Saturday) 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Avenue of the Americas, between 42nd and 56th Streets.20110602
Internet Week New York (Monday through Thursday) Events at locations around the city celebrating digital culture and technology innovation are part of the fourth annual Internet Week New York, which runs through June 13. Two Chelsea locations will function as headquarters for the festival, which will include events with webmasters, media professionals, politicians and entertainers, including the talk-show host Rachael Ray, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Craig Newmark (of Craigslist) and the actress Isabella Rossellini. For complete list of events and locations: internetweekny.com. Passes range from $25 ($15 with a tweet about buying a ticket) for events at the two headquarters, to $249 for inclusive insider passes.20110602
Jane Street Block Association Street Fair (Saturday), 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Jane Street, between Eighth Avenue and Hudson Street, West Village.20110602
'Local Produce Springfest' (Saturday) A 12-hour feast of music and dance in the community gardens of Park Slope, Brooklyn, beginning at noon at the Warren Street/St. Mark's Garden, between Fourth and Fifth Avenue; the day will feature performances by numerous companies and will include a dance party with instruction and refreshments. Sponsored by the Brooklyn Conservatory of Music and Spoke the Hub Dancing. Full schedule: bqcm.org. (718) 622-3300; free.20110602
Morton Street Block Association Street Fair (Saturday), 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., on Morton Street, between Hudson and Bedford Streets, West Village.20110602
NYC Gay Pride Month Launch Party (Saturday) An outdoor festival with performances, food and the Lady Gaga Look-Alike Competition, on Orchard Street, between East Houston and Stanton Streets, Lower East Side; 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. Sponsored by Pride Goes East, a partnership of the Lower East Side Business Improvement District and Fourth Arts Block. pridegoeseast.org.20110602
Philippine Bulol Sculptures (Monday through Thursday) In the Philippines, carved wooden sculptures of the rice god Bulol are often placed by granaries to ensure a good harvest. Contemporary sculptures of Bulol by the artist Hadrian Mendoza, who was born in the Philippines, are included in a show of his work that coincides with Philippine Independence Day, June 12; the exhibition will be up through June 17. Hours: Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. A reception on Wednesday at 6 p.m. is open to the public. Philippine Center, 556 Fifth Avenue, at 46th Street, Manhattan , (571) 294-1655, hadrianmendoza.com.20110602
Philippine Independence Day Parade (Sunday), begins at noon on Madison Avenue and 38th Street and continues south to 27th Street, where a festival will follow. pidci.org.20110602
Prospect Lefferts Gardens House And Garden Tour (Sunday) A self-guided tour of late 19th- and early 20th-century homes in Brooklyn; noon to 5 p.m.; only children 12 and older and infants carried in front packs by adults will be allowed in the houses. This 41st annual event is sponsored by the Lefferts Manor Association. (718) 284-6210, leffertsmanor.org; $20 in advance; $25 on Sunday. Tickets on Sunday will be available at K-Dog & Dune Buggy Cafe, 43 Lincoln Road, between Flatbush and Ocean Avenues.20110602
Queens Pride 2011 (Sunday) A parade and street fair in celebration of lesbian and gay pride. The parade starts at noon beginning at 85th Street and 37th Avenue; the street fair runs from noon to 6 p.m. on 37th Road, between 73rd and 77th Streets, Jackson Heights. queenspride.com.20110602
St. Nicholas Avenue Festival (Saturday) 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on St. Nicholas Avenue, between 181st and 188th Street, Washington Heights.20110602
Taste of Times Square (Monday) This 18th annual festival of food and music will go on from 5 to 9 p.m. on the Broadway plazas, between 42nd and 47th Streets; sponsored by the Times Square Alliance. (212) 768-1560, timessquarenyc.org; admission is free, with $1 tickets available for tasting dishes ranging from $1 to $5.20110602
'Tastes: Meatpacking Meets Chelsea' (Saturday) A fund-raiser for the NYC Lab School for Collaborative Studies will feature a sampling of foods from businesses in Chelsea and the meatpacking district; from 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m., on Gansevoort Street, between Little West 12th Street and Hudson Street. tastesnyc.org; $35 in advance, $45 on Saturday, includes six tastings and walking tours of the meatpacking district.20110602
Tennis Open House (Saturday) The historic West Side Tennis Club, founded in 1892, will open its doors for visits with members; 3 to 7 p.m.; tennis whites required, reservations requested: membership@foresthillstennis.com or (718) 268-2300. One Tennis Place, Forest Hills, Queens , foresthillstennis.com.20110602
Third Avenue Community Benefit Festival (Saturday) noon to 5 p.m., between 66th and 86th Streets, Manhattan.20110602
Third Avenue Spring Fair (Sunday), 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., on Third Avenue, between 14th and 23rd Streets, Manhattan. Free.20110602
Urban Park Rangers Events (Sunday) Three free events. At 10 a.m. for ages 8 and up, ''Salt Water Fishing,'' with equipment provided, at Midland Beach Park in Queens, Seaview Avenue and Father Capodanno Boulevard. At 11 a.m. for ages 8 and up, ''Basic Canoeing,'' at Inwood Hill Park, meeting at the Nature Center, reachable from 218th Street. At 1 p.m., for all ages, ''Nature Scavenger Hunt,'' in Fort Totten Park in Queens, meeting at the Visitor Center, reachable from Cross Island Parkway and 212th Street. nyc.gov/parks/rangers; free.20110602
West 44th Street Better Block Association Street Fair (Saturday), from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., on 44th Street, between Ninth and 10th Avenues, Clinton; rain date, June 11. (212) 479-7920.20110602
Spoken Word
Andrew Krivak Discussion (Monday) Mr. Krivak, author of ''The Sojourn'' (Bellevue Literary Press), a coming-of-age story set during World War I, will discuss his work with Paul Harding, winner of the 2010 Pulitzer Prize for ''Tinkers,'' a novel about a father-son relationship. McNally Jackson Books, 52 Prince Street, at Lafayette Street, Lower East Side , (212) 274-1160, mcnallyjackson.com; free.20110602
92nd Street Y (Monday and Thursday) A discussion with two actress-comedians -- Judy Gold and Jackie Hoffman -- on Monday at 7:30 p.m. Rebecca Traister, a journalist, will talk politics with the writer Nora Ephron on Thursday at 8 p.m. 1395 Lexington Avenue , (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $29 for each event; $10 for 35 and under.20110602
Poetry Reading With Music: Robert Bly (Wednesday) The noted writer will read from his favorite works, including selections from his new book, ''Talking Into the Ear of a Donkey,'' with musical accompaniment by the Lian Ensemble, which specializes in Persian music; at 7 p.m. Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street , stjohndivine.org; free.20110602
'Poetry Unleashed: Voices of the Economy' (Friday) An evening of poetry, music, dance and art is planned from 7 to 11 p.m. in conjunction with the art exhibition ''Faces of the Economy,'' on view through July 9. Both are sponsored by Art for Change. AFC Gallery, 1699 Lexington Avenue, at 106th Street, Harlem , (212) 348-7044, artforchange.org; $5 suggested donation.20110602
Minton Sparks Reading With Music (Friday through Sunday, Thursday) Minton Sparks, a storyteller and songwriter, will tell tales of her Southern upbringing, with music by John Jackson, a guitarist. (Through June 12.). Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m. Manhattan Theater Source, 177 Macdougal Street, Greenwich Village , (866) 811-4111, theatresource.org; $25.20110602
WordTheater Lit by Lulu (Sunday) The third in a series of readings of contemporary short stories will feature Julian Sands performing a story by Simon Van Booy; Halley Feiffer performing a story by Julie Orringer; and Emily Bergl performing a story by Michelle Latiolais. Readings at 6:30 p.m., with reception at 6 p.m. SoHo House, 29 Ninth Avenue, at 13th Street, Manhattan , wordtheatre.com; $28 in advance, $35 at the door; limited student tickets, $20, are available at (310) 915-5150.20110602
Walking Tours
Adventure on a Shoestring (Saturday) Two East Side walks: At 1 p.m., ''Jacqueline Kennedy's Manhattan,'' a tour of the Carnegie Hill area, meeting on the southeast corner of 86th Street and Fifth Avenue. At 3:30 p.m., ''Cosmopolitan Yorkville,'' with a stop at Gracie Mansion, meeting on the southwest corner of 86th Street and Lexington Avenue. (212) 265-2663; $10 each tour.20110602
Architecture Tour (Saturday) ''Women & Modern Architecture in Midtown,'' a tour highlighting contributions made by women architects, designers and critics, meeting at 11 a.m. on the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 43rd Street. Sponsored by the Bard Graduate Center. Registration: programs@bgc.bard.edu or (212) 501-3011. $20; $15 for those 65+ and students.20110602
Big Onion Walking Tours (Friday and Saturday) ''SoHo and NoLitTa,'' a tour of SoHo and the area north of Little Italy, meeting on the southeast corner of Spring and Lafayette Streets; Friday at 2 p.m., ''Historic Harlem'' will focus on the people, sites and architecture of the neighborhood, meeting at the northwest corner of 135th Street and Lenox Avenue; Saturday at 1 p.m. (888) 606-9255; each tour $15, or $12 for 63+ and students.20110602
Central Park Conservancy (Saturday and Sunday) Free tours of Central Park. Saturday at noon, ''West Side Stories,'' with a look at gardens and flowers mentioned in plays by Shakespeare, meeting at the north side of West 81st Street, at Central Park West; information: (212) 772-0210. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Views From the Past'' includes a discussion of the park's history and its designers, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, meeting outside the Dairy Visitor Center and Gift Shop, midpark at 65th Street; information: (212) 794-4064, centralparknyc.org; free.20110602
Graffiti Tours New York (Sunday) ''A Beginner's Guide to Graffiti,'' with a graffiti artist in attendance on a walk through SoHo, meeting on the northwest corner of Bleecker Street and the Bowery; at 10 a.m. (201) 788-7196, grafftours.com; $20, or $10 for students.20110602
Historic Greenwich Village (Sunday), meeting at the Washington Arch; at 10 a.m. Sponsored by New York's Finest Walking Tours. (917) 886-4041, thefinestwalkingtours.com; $15; $12 for 62+; and free for those 12 and younger.20110602
In Depth Walking Tours (Saturday and Sunday) ''New York's Oldest, Narrowest, Crookedest Streets,'' a tour of Lower Manhattan streets that have not changed since colonial times, meeting in front of Trinity Church, corner of Broadway and Wall Street; at 11 a.m. (917) 607-9019, indepthwalkingtours.com; $20; $15 for 65+.20110602
Mark Twain's New York (Saturday) A tour of sites in Lower Manhattan associated with Twain, meeting at 500 Broadway, near Broome Street, SoHo. At 1 p.m.; (917) 620-5371, marktwainsnewyork.com; $20.20110602
NYC Discovery Tours (Saturday and Sunday) ''High Line Birthday Bash: The High Line and Meatpacking District,'' a tour celebrating the second anniversary of the West Side park, with stops in the neighborhood district; at 1:15 and 3:30 p.m., with an additional tour on Sunday at 11 a.m. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331. $18.20110602
'Old Astoria Village' (Sunday) A tour of this Queens neighborhood, meeting at the entrance of Socrates Sculpture Park, 32-01 Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City; at 11 a.m. Sponsored by the Greater Astoria Historical Society. (718) 278-0700, astorialic.org; $10; $8 for members.20110602
Recreation
Central Park Challenge (Saturday) Several walks and runs to benefit services for those with disabilities, administered by the YAI network. It begins with a five-kilometer run at 9 a.m. (registration, 7:30 a.m.; fee, $30), followed by a three-kilometer walk at 9:45 a.m. (registration, 8:30 a.m.; fee, $25), near the Naumburg Bandshell, midpark at 72nd Street. There will also be a children's race at 11 a.m. and other children's activities from 9 a.m. to noon ($10 fee). Sponsored by the YAI and Broadview Networks. (877) 924-9255, yai.org.20110602
Liver Life Walk (Sunday) A three-mile walk to raise money for the American Liver Foundation, beginning at Castle Clinton in Battery Park; at 10 a.m., with registration beginning at 9 a.m. (212) 943-1059, liverfoundation.org/walk.20110602
Tour de Cure (Sunday) A bicycle ride of varying lengths to raise money for the American Diabetes Association, starting at Pier 94, 12th Avenue and 54th Street. Routes range from 15 to 100 miles, with registration beginning at 6:30 a.m. for the 100-mile course. Other registration times and information: diabetes.org.
ANNE MANCUSO and SUNITA REDDY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOWL! FESTIVAL 2011: (Friday through Sunday) Although Allen Ginsberg never took part in this annual East Village arts celebration (he died six years before the first festival, in 2003), the crowd at Tompkins Square Park always feels his presence. A group reading of ''Howl!,'' the Ginsberg poem that gives the celebration its name, traditionally opens the festival, and readers at this year's kickoff, on Friday at 5 p.m., will include some of his fellow Beat poets and performance artists, like Ed Sanders and John Giorno. But this year the festival is also a birthday celebration for Ginsberg, who would have turned 85 on Friday. (Above, Ginsberg in 1966, reading from his poetry in Washington Square Park.) Saturday's events include a children's carnival that begins at noon and, for the adults, music (including disco), theater, poetry and yoga from 1 to 7 p.m. The entertainment continues on Sunday with music and dance beginning at 2 p.m. and ends with ''Low Life 5: Flaming Queens,'' a 5 p.m. costumed tribute to the performers and performance spaces of the East Village. The free festival in the park is sponsored by Howl Arts Inc., Avenue A at Seventh Street
 howlfestival.com. And the tradition of celebrating the nontraditional continues. (Anne Mancuso) (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK MANNING/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); CALENDARS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); PAINTING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (74%); VOLUNTEERS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (57%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



80 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1947 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Dance
Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.
Abraham, Driscoll, Dolbashian (Saturday and Sunday) This weekend's Gotham Dance Festival sampler matinees offer a particularly alluring lineup, with work by Kyle Abraham, Gregory Dolbashian and Faye Driscoll -- all inventive, intriguing dance makers. At 2 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $39. (Roslyn Sulcas)20110602 
- American Ballet Theater (Friday and Saturday, and Monday through Thursday) John Neumeier's busy, big-production-value ''Lady of the Camellias'' arrives on Friday with a slew of great casts: this weekend alone boasts Julie Kent and Roberto Bolle (Friday), Diana Vishneva and Marcelo Gomes (Saturday matinee) and Irina Dvorovenko and Cory Stearns (Saturday night) playing the consumptive heroine, Marguerite Gautier, and her lover, Armand Duval, in the Alexandre Dumas tale made famous by Verdi's ''Traviata.'' If you like your ballets as a form of Masterpiece Theater plus acrobatic pas de deux, this is for you. If not, you have to sit it out until the opening on Thursday of Alexei Ratmansky's ''Bright Stream,'' which the choreographer created in 2003 for the Bolshoi Ballet. The full-length piece -- a comprehensive reworking of a 1935 ballet by Fyodor Lopukhov, to a score by Shostakovich -- was successful, and Mr. Ratmansky was invited to become the Bolshoi's artistic director the following year. Ballet Theater performed it in Washington in January to much acclaim; finally it arrives in New York. Hooray! (The season continues through July 9.) Friday, Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m.; and Wednesday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center , (212) 362-6000, abt.org; $20 to $225. (Sulcas)20110602
A.W.A.R.D. Show! All-Stars (Friday through Sunday) Winners and finalists from competitive choreographic events in Chicago, Seattle and New York City show their works. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $15. (Jack Anderson)20110602
- Ballet Nacional de Cuba (Wednesday and Thursday) It's been Cuba all the time in New York for the last few weeks, as the interdisciplinary Si Cuba! festival has shown film, art, music and dance across the city. Next week ballet -- an art form taken very seriously in Cuba -- gets a turn with the appearance of the Ballet Nacional at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. The company is still led by the formidable Alicia Alonso, who danced with American Ballet Theater in the 1940s and 1950s and first formed her own troupe in 1948. This program is a mixed bill all too reminiscent of gala fare, with excerpts from ''Giselle,'' ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' ''Swan Lake'' and the like, as well as from Ms. Alonso's own ''Gottschalk Symphony.'' But for ballet lovers, it will offer a good look at the company's dancers and an athletic, heroic style that remains unusually unified among today's multinational troupes. (Through June 11.) At 7:30 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene , (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $25 to $75. (Sulcas)20110602
- Monica Bill Barnes & Company (Saturday) This choreographer, with a surprising sense of humor and a specialty in whimsical and slyly witty creations, presents dances inspired by rock concerts, Little League games and high-school marching bands. Part of the Gotham Dance Festival. At 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $39. (Anderson)20110602
- Brian Brooks Moving Company (Friday and Sunday) A choreographer who likes to enhance his presentations with sculptural installations offers a program that includes ''MOTOR,'' an exploration of perpetual motion for which the set is a structure of cables extending beyond the stage and over the audience. Part of the Gotham Dance Festival. Friday at 8 p.m. and Saturday at 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $39. (Anderson)20110602
John Byrne (Friday and Saturday) ''The Transcending Form,'' a dance fable rooted in modern dance and gesture, explores ideas of life, afterlife and the soul in a production that incorporates a figurative photo installation by David LaChapelle. At 8 p.m., Theater 80, 80 St. Mark's Place, East Village , (212) 388-0388, theatre80.net; $15. (Anderson)20110602
Yanira Castro a canary torsi (Friday and Saturday) ''Paradis'' takes place under the stars in two garden locations, honoring and transforming their environments. Friday at 8:30 p.m. and Saturday at 8 p.m. (rain date Sunday at 8 p.m.), Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 1000 Washington Avenue, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn , (212) 924-0077, dancetheaterworkshop.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Anderson)20110602
Corbin Dances (Wednesday) In ''Shady,'' Patrick Corbin, a former Paul Taylor dancer, presents an evening-length suite of dances that the Joyce Web site describes as exploring ''community, humanity and sexuality.'' It is also apparently all based on a single movement phrase, which sounds interesting for the structuralists among us. Part of the Gotham Dance Festival. (Through June 12.) At 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $25. (Sulcas)20110602
- La MaMa Moves! (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) No ordinary festival, this is a choreographic cornucopia stuffed with events: 60 attractions, among them 37 premieres, in three spaces of this celebrated downtown arts center. And the dance forms represented include traditional, modern, postmodern, neo-Baroque and absolutely unclassifiable. Complete schedule of events and locations at lamama.org. (Through June 21.) La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 475-4410; $15; $10 for students and 65+. (Anderson)20110602
- Susan Marshall (Thursday) As part of its 25th anniversary celebration, Susan Marshall & Company is presenting two full-length works in successive performances on the same night. First comes ''Frame Dances,'' a video and dance installation in which works made for camera are also performed live to music by Peter Whitehead. Then follows ''Adamantine,'' a fascinating work that Ms. Marshall created in residence at Montclair State University. The time spent working onstage shows in the clever use of lighting, her sophisticated spatial organization and the fascinatingly slippery movement that draws from the pedestrian sources that she used at the beginning of her career, transmuted here into something ineffably strange. Twenty-five years is a long time to last in the inhospitable climate for the arts in the United States; Ms. Marshall has managed it, and this is a chance to see how and why. (Through June 11.) First seating: ''Frame Dances'' at 7 p.m. and ''Adamantine'' at 8 p.m.; second seating: ''Adamantine'' at 8 p.m. and ''Frame Dances'' at 9:15 p.m. Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com; $25; $20 for ''Adamantine'' only; gala tickets start at $150 and can be ordered by calling (212) 219-0005. (Sulcas)20110602
- New York City Ballet (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) George Balanchine's wonderful three-part abstract work, ''Jewels,'' continues its brief run, with Tiler Peck making her debut in ''Emeralds'' and Tyler Angle in ''Diamonds'' on Friday night, with a particularly fine lineup of dancers in all three sections on Wednesday night. Otherwise, it's business as usual at City Ballet, which means general choreographic glory. Jerome Robbins! (Saturday and Sunday matinees). Balanchine! Wheeldon! (''Donizetti Variations'' and ''Mercurial Manoeuvres'' on Thursday.) Go! (The season continues through June 12.) Friday and Thursday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m. and Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center , (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com; $20 to $135. (Sulcas)20110602
- Jody Oberfelder (Thursday) In her 2008 ''Dido and Aeneas,'' Ms. Oberfelder brought a fresh and imaginative eye to the often-staged story from Virgil's ''Aeneid,'' giving it a contemporary twist by recasting the lovers as a celebrity couple. Now, with the Knickerbocker Chamber Orchestra, she tackles another frequently reworked piece. Stravinsky's ''Soldier's Tale'' was originally presented in 1918 as a dance-and-music drama, a folk tale seen through the prism of World War 1. Ms. Oberfelder has placed it in a contemporary setting, and it should be instructive to see what resonances she finds. (Through June 11.) At 7:30 p.m., Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts, Pace University, 3 Spruce Street, between Park Row and Gold Street, Lower Manhattan , (866) 811-4111, theatermania.com; $20; $15 for students and 65+; $150 to $500 for gala tickets. (Sulcas)20110602
David Parker and the Bang Group (Friday and Saturday) Mr. Parker and Jeffrey Kazin chronicle their friendship in their new ''Misters and Sisters -- A Love Story in Song and Dance,'' a dance-theater cabaret dedicated to Mr. Parker's father, the mystery novelist Robert B. Parker, who supposedly told his son, ''Don't look for yourself in your work; look for your work in yourself.'' At 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village , (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15 in advance, $20 at door. (Anderson)20110602
- Susan Rethorst Retro(intro)spective (Friday and Saturday) This series at Danspace Project, organized by Melinda Ring, focuses on the work of Ms. Rethorst, a choreographer who has long been creating finely wrought, exacting work. This weekend Ms. Rethorst shows her 1989 ''Beau Regard,'' influenced (according to the Danspace Web site) by children's literature and ''an interest in asking what dancing in the third person would look like.'' But never mind what it all means; just look at the dancers taking part: Rebecca Brooks, Naomi Fall, Neil Greenberg, Irene Hultman, Jon Kinzel, Jodi Melnick, and Vicky Shick. It's a roll call of contemporary dance royalty that demands homage. At 8 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village , (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org; $18. (Sulcas)20110602
David Thomson (Friday and Saturday) A showing of works in progress will be followed by a discussion and a wine reception. At 6 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 924-0077, dancetheaterworkshop.org; $5. (Anderson)20110602
360degrees Dance Company (Friday and Saturday) This company, which seeks to preserve noted older modern-dance works, is reviving two pieces by Jane Dudley that represent a time when dance was prized as a vehicle for social protest: ''Time Is Money'' (1932), a commentary on Depression-era economics, and ''Cante Flamenco'' (1944), a tribute to a heroine of the Spanish Civil War. The program also includes dances by Ricardo Flores, Alessandra Prosperi and the premiere of Martin Lofsnes's ''What Was Still Is.'' Friday at 7:30 p.m. and Saturday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 924-0077, dancetheaterworkshop.org; $20; $17 for students and 65+. (Anderson)20110602
Kate Weare Company (Tuesday and Thursday) As part of the Gotham Dance Festival, Kate Weare, a choreographer who creates work that often seems to hover between narrative and abstraction, shows two works: the new ''Garden'' and the 2009 ''Lean-To.'' (Through June 11.) Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. and Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $39. (Sulcas)20110602

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BALLET NACIONAL DE CUBA: (Wednesday and Thursday) The interdisciplinary Si Cuba! festival has shown that nation's film, art, music and dance across the city for the past few weeks. Next week ballet -- an art form taken very seriously in Cuba -- gets a turn with the appearance of the Ballet Nacional at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. The company is still led by the formidable Alicia Alonso, who danced with American Ballet Theater in the 1940s and '50s and first formed her own troupe in 1948. This program is a mixed bill all too reminiscent of gala fare, with excerpts from ''Giselle,'' ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' ''Swan Lake'' and the like, as well as from Ms. Alonso's own ''Gottschalk Symphony.'' But for ballet lovers, it will offer a good look at the company's dancers (like Viengsay Valdes, here) and an athletic, heroic style that remains unusually unified among today's multinational troupes. (Through June 11.) At 7:30 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org
 $25 to $75. (Roslyn Sulcas) (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY REYES) (C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (91%); DANCE (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSIC (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); OPERA (78%); FILM (76%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



81 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Heavy in School, Burdened for Life

BYLINE: By CHRISTY M. GLASS, STEVEN A. HAAS AND ERIC N. REITHER. 
Christy M. Glass and Eric N. Reither are associate professors of sociology at Utah State University. Steven A. Haas is an assistant professor of sociology at Arizona State University.

 BODY:
MUCH of the debate about the nation's obesity epidemic has focused, not surprisingly, on food: labeling requirements, taxes on sugary beverages and snacks, junk food advertisements aimed at children and the nutritional quality of school lunches.
But obesity affects not only health but also economic outcomes: overweight people have less success in the job market and make less money over the course of their careers than slimmer people. The problem is particularly acute for overweight women, because they are significantly less likely to complete college.
We arrived at this conclusion after examining data from a project that tracks more than 10,000 people who graduated from Wisconsin high schools in 1957. From career entry to retirement, overweight men experienced no barriers to getting hired and promoted. But heavier women worked in jobs that had lower earnings and social status and required less education than their thinner female peers. 
At first glance this difference might appear to reflect bias on the part of employers, and male supervisors in particular. After all, studies find that employers tend to view overweight workers as less capable, less hard-working and lacking in self-control.
But the real reason was that overweight women were less likely to earn college degrees -- regardless of their ability, professional goals or socioeconomic status. In other words, it didn't matter how talented or ambitious they were, or how well they had done in high school. Nor did it matter whether their parents were rich or poor, well educated or high school dropouts.
Our study, published last year in the journal Social Forces, was the first to show that decreased education was the key mechanism that reduced the career achievement of overweight women -- an impact that persisted even among those who lost weight later in life. We found no similar gap in educational attainment for overweight men.
Why doesn't body size affect men's attainment as much as women's? One explanation is that overweight girls are more stigmatized and isolated in high school compared with overweight boys. Other studies have shown that body size is one of the primary ways Americans judge female -- but not male -- attractiveness. We also know that the social stigma associated with obesity is strongest during adolescence. So perhaps teachers and peers judge overweight girls more harshly. In addition, evidence suggests that, relative to overweight girls, overweight boys are more active in extracurricular activities, like sports, which may lead to stronger friendships and social ties. (Of course our study followed a particular group from career entry to retirement, and more study is needed to determine whether overweight girls finishing high school today face the same barriers, though these social factors suggest they do.)
That overweight women continue to trail men -- including overweight men -- in educational attainment in America is remarkable, given that women in general are outpacing men in college completion and in earning advanced degrees.
What does this mean for policy? Previous studies have shown that overweight adolescents feel stigmatized by their peers and their teachers, have fewer friends and often feel socially isolated. Teenagers who feel less connected to teachers, school and peers are less likely to graduate and go on to college. So policies to help overweight girls need to work on two levels: promoting healthful behaviors and shifting attitudes.
Obesity is occurring in children at younger and younger ages, so prevention needs to start as early as primary school. While early intervention has obvious potential health benefits, it is also critical from a career perspective. In addition, overweight girls should be encouraged to participate in college preparation courses and extracurricular activities. Health education that focuses on diet and exercise but does not stigmatize overweight teenagers is critical.
Teachers and principals need to be aggressive in limiting bullying and looking for signs of depression in overweight girls. Teenage girls, regardless of body size, struggle with self-esteem and are at higher risk of depression than boys, so expanding health education to include psychological as well as physical health could help all girls. Public health campaigns should reframe the problem of obesity from one of individual failure to one of public concern.
The economic harm to overweight women is more than a series of personal troubles; it may contribute to the rising disparities between rich and poor, and it is a drain on the human capital and economic productivity of our nation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON FRESHWATER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); OBESITY (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (89%); YOUTH MARKET (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (89%); EPIDEMICS (78%); NUTRITION (78%); DIETING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); PRODUCT LABELING (73%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



82 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Where Lawyers Find Work

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

 BODY:
Career prospects can look dim these days for young American lawyers.
Top American firms have cut hiring or moved to a lower-tier pay system for many new associates. Corporations are reducing their legal departments. Legal temp companies now pay as little as $20 a hour to board-certified lawyers for document reviews that a decade ago might have been billed at $200 an hour.
But there is at least one glimmer of light. And it comes from a surprising direction. 
Outsourcing firms, the companies that in recent years added to the financial woes of the American legal profession by sending work to low-cost countries like India, are now creating jobs for lawyers in the United States.
The American salaries for outsourced work, typically in the $50,000 to $80,000 range, may look meager compared with the six figures that new associates might still hope to draw at a big firm. But outsourcing jobs typically pay better than temp work -- and certainly better than no work at all.
And at that salary range, American lawyers start to look a bit more competitive with their offshore counterparts -- and more attractive to potential American clients that might not be comfortable sending legal work overseas.
''If we're going to deliver a fantastic client experience, the only way to do it is to have an onshore facility,'' said Sanjay Kamlani, co-chief executive of Pangea3, a legal outsourcing firm with offices in New York and Mumbai.
Pangea3, which was bought by Thomson Reuters in November, has just opened a 400-seat office in Carrollton, Tex., a Dallas suburb. The new office means Pangea3 will have lawyers working during United States business hours, on tasks that, because of logistics or American law, can be difficult to perform outside the country -- like writing and vetting export control documents, military contracts and some patent reviews.
Many of Pangea3's main competitors are already doing legal work in the United States and have been hiring steadily in recent months. And though the industry's total number of employees in the United States is still estimated to be only in the hundreds, analysts predict fast growth for the field.
Because legal outsourcing companies grew steadily during the recession as corporations trimmed legal staffs, the industry was able to attract investors like Thomson Reuters and Intermediate Capital Group. Now legal outsourcing companies and others are opening offices and hiring lawyers in lower-cost areas in the United States, like West Virginia and North Dakota.
Legal outsourcing companies employ about 16,000 people worldwide, according to Edward Brooks, founder of the LPO Program, which matches legal outsourcing companies with potential clients.
The industry made an estimated $400 million in revenue in 2010, according to the researcher The Datamonitor Group, which was just a tiny fraction of the world's $200-billion-a-year legal market. But Datamonitor predicts legal outsourcing revenues will grow to $2.4 billion by 2012, based on the industry's recent rapid expansion. In part because of the harsh economic climate of the last few years, ''the reality is that the United States and the United Kingdom have many lower-cost locations and good supplies of legal professionals,'' said Mark Ross, a vice president at Integreon, an outsourcing company based in Los Angeles.
Integreon has lawyers and paralegals in 17 offices around the world, including India and South Africa. But the company, which is now hiring lawyers and other legal professionals in its Fargo, N.D., and Bristol, England, offices, currently has about 500 employees in the United States and expects to have 600 by the end of the year.
In the United States, outsourcing companies are hiring lawyers from temporary legal services firms or recruiting them directly out of law school. The pay is often comparable to lawyers' salaries in smaller cities. And the jobs can come with other benefits, like equity stakes in the company and management opportunities that might not be widely available at conventional law firms.
Lily Liu joined Pangea3's new Texas office after six years as a temporary lawyer and previous experience as a trial lawyer in Texas.
''This is truly a global working environment,'' she said of her new job, in a telephone interview. And though she still handles document reviews, which were her responsibility at the temp agencies, Ms. Liu said she finds more variety and meaning in this job. ''We interact with the clients, unlike in the temporary world,'' she said.
In April, Pangea3 sent Kirit Amichandwala, a senior manager from Mumbai, to train new employees in Texas on how to conduct document reviews and other tasks the way the company's lawyers do in India. The new hires ''all have good document review experience,'' Mr. Amichandwala said, ''but a lot of the processes we follow are pretty unique to us.''
One of Pangea3's main competitors, UnitedLex, has started regularly swapping teams of lawyers between the United States and India so that employees in both countries can learn to work the same way.
The big challenge is ''how do you get a bunch of American lawyers to believe that we might be doing things smarter'' by using a process developed in India, said Shelly Dalrymple, senior vice president for global litigation support at UnitedLex.
One American law firm was so won over that it asked a UnitedLex document review manager from India to train its own team in Boston, Ms. Dalrymple said.
Although UnitedLex is based in Kansas, so far most of its 700 employees are in India. Still, about 240 employees are in the United States, with more to be hired. In March the company announced plans to move its headquarters to a new 24,000-square-foot facility in Overland Park, Kan., to allow for further growth.
''There is some work that just can't be outsourced to India,'' said Daniel Reed, UnitedLex's chief executive.
Though legal outsourcing companies may not provide the mentoring and diversity of experience of a traditional law firm, they are a career option that law school graduates should not ignore, said Cassandra Burke Robertson, an associate professor at Case Western Reserve University's school of law.
Right now, she said, most graduating lawyers were ''happy when they have a job that pays the bills.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kirit Amichandwala of Pangea3, a legal outsourcing firm, taught the procedures of its India office to staff in Texas. (B1)
 Pangea3's legal staff here will handle tasks that are difficult to perform outside the country. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (79%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (64%); EXPORT CONTROLS (62%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: PANGEA3 LLC (92%); INTERMEDIATE CAPITAL GROUP PLC (51%)

TICKER: ICP (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (57%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



83 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cut, Night Court's Docket of Unresolved Dramas Grows

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

 BODY:
Camille Carter was surprised when Judge Leslie Purificacion looked down from the bench in small-claims court in Queens and said it would be October before the court might have time to get to her year-old case over her $1,136 damaged fender.
''Look at the bright side, it's Oct. 27 in this year,'' Judge Purificacion said, with a gallows-humor grin.
The New York State courts have taken a $170 million budget cut, and the small-claims courts in New York City are taking an especially big hit, with many night sessions eliminated, growing lines and increasing delays. But life does not stop, so the modest dramas of the small-claims courts are piling up: neighbor disputes, battles over bedbugs, and grudge matches that spill out into the hallways. ''I don't know how long I'm going to be coming here,'' Ms. Carter said, before she gets her day in court -- or in this case, night in court. 
Visiting the night small-claims court on Sutphin Boulevard in Jamaica offers a catalog of the irritations of city life, writ small. A livery-car driver was irate. Two former friends seemed about to spit. And Tashmina Muslima was dejected when her case against her former landlord was postponed until November, the next time an official Bengali interpreter would be available.
''I'm very surprised,'' Ms. Muslima said outside Judge Purificacion's courtroom, ''because this is a very important place to come for justice.''
With court budgets cut in some 30 states, small-claims courts have been among the least noted casualties.
But some judges say cutbacks in ''the people's court'' can be among the most painful because a small-claims case can keep a little annoyance (under $5,000 in New York) from growing into a big one. No lawyers are required, and night sessions make justice accessible to people who work.
But in some places across the nation, small-claims courts are a little smaller than they used to be because of state financial trouble. In Covelo, Calif., the court that handles small claims and other cases now meets once every other month, instead of once a month. In Clackamas County, Ore., night court for small claims has been eliminated.
In New York, budget reductions that went into effect in April mean that in four boroughs, night small-claims courts that once met four nights a week meet only on Thursday nights.
On Staten Island, night small-claims court meets only once a month. In Queens, officials have nearly doubled the list of cases facing the single night court judge every Thursday, to about 200. Even so, they project that newly filed cases are soon likely to have to wait until 2012 for their first court date, about four times the 45-day wait before the cutbacks. ''It's going to snowball,'' said Charles S. Lopresto, the supervising judge in the Sutphin Boulevard courthouse.
By 7:30 on a recent Thursday night, Judge Purificacion was deep into the first of eight trials he would conduct that night. A contractor, it seemed, had promised a palatial bathroom. But, according to the homeowner, the contractor had arrived with ''a vagrant, which is also a convict'' as his helper, and when they left ''the floor was down here and the bathroom was up here.''
The contractor's argument had a certain elegant simplicity. ''He's lying in court,'' he said. Judge Purificacion, a children's book editor and writer before he was a lawyer, was economical in his use of time. Within minutes he was on to the next trial. A decision would be in the mail, which is not how Judge Judy does it on TV, but it has the advantage that people sometimes leave court calmly when emotions run high.
Judge Purificacion moved on to the case of the shared driveway, a suit by Jose A. Moncada against his neighbors in Ozone Park, Maria and Shawn Charles. Mr. Moncada claimed damage to a piece of his motorcycle, which he said the Charleses knocked over in the driveway.
He seemed to be waving the broken part in an envelope. But he did not get to unveil it. In short order, Judge Purificacion had both sides at his bench under the ''In God We Trust'' sign. He was putting numbers in an oversize calculator he uses to demonstrate the benefits of settlement. Soon, he had the neighbors agreeing that the Charleses would give Mr. Moncada $250 in three payments. For the moment, peace seemed to reign.
By now, Judge Purificacion was grimacing in his chair because of a back twinge. He had heard cases all day before starting night court at 6:30.
But, onward: the case of the livery driver, Nurul Afsar, whose dispatcher said he had faked an accident. ''That a lie,'' Mr. Afsar testified.
The decision would be in the mail.
The bedbug trial was next. It was 10 p.m. But before the landlord's lawyer, Patrick McGuire, could ask a single Perry Mason question of the tenant, Claudia Medina, there was shouting in the hall.
''He's a bully!'' someone screamed. ''I want this man arrested!''
Court officers went running. In the hallway, Mr. Charles and Mr. Moncada, the neighbors with the shared driveway, were nose to nose. The spirit of amiable settlement was gone, despite what Judge Purificacion's calculator had said. There was some pushing, and Mr. Moncada was hustled by the officers out onto Sutphin Boulevard, while Mr. Charles was told to stay put. They would be allowed to leave only separately.
Peace returned to the courthouse. But Mr. Charles said he and his neighbor were not likely to be friends. They had been in small-claims court before and were likely to be back, he said. .
Inside the courtroom, Mr. McGuire was cross-examining Ms. Medina on what he suggested was her unproven theory that bedbugs had infested her apartment in Kew Gardens as a result of inattention by the landlord. ''There is,'' he asked, knowing the answer in the almost empty courtroom, ''no expert to testify as to the bedbug nature?''
She had not brought an expert, she conceded. It was 10:30, and the decision would be in the mail.
It was time for the case of the former friends. One wanted money for storing furniture for the other.
''Did you hear what she was saying under her breath?'' the first one asked.
''I don't want to see her,'' said the other.
It was the last case Judge Purificacion had time for. There were 50 others ready that he had not gotten to.
When he sent the two former friends home at 11:15, he told them to leave the courthouse separately.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After seemingly reaching a resolution in night court in Queens, Shawn Charles, in white, and Jose A. Moncada quarreled in the hallway. Mr. Moncada's wife stood behind Mr. Charles. (A1)
Lining up for court in Jamaica, Queens. Judges say small-claims courts can prevent small disputes from becoming big ones.
 Judge Leslie Purificacion, presiding over night court in Queens. A slide show of the court is at nytimes.com/nyregion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES0 (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL CLAIMS COURTS (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); JUDGES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (75%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); BED BUGS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



84 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: A Memorial Divides Survivors

BYLINE: By SHOSHANA WALTER. 
swalter@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
At a recent dedication ceremony for a Peoples Temple memorial in Oakland, Kathy Barbour, a survivor of the 1978 massacre, knelt on the lawn of Evergreen Cemetery to look at photos of the victims of Jonestown. 
As nearly 200 people milled around her, Ms. Barbour, a quiet woman with white hair, peered nervously toward the path leading to the cemetery gates. ''I was expecting the gauntlet,'' she said.
The unveiling of a memorial was a long time coming. But the solemn event in remembrance of the mass murder and suicide led by the cult's founder, Jim Jones, also highlighted a longstanding conflict between two groups of survivors.
The memorial, a series of four granite plaques installed over a grassy slope where hundreds of anonymous bodies were buried years ago, lists the names of the 918 who died in Jonestown -- including Jones. Many survivors have taken comfort in the memorial, but others have called it tantamount to memorializing Hitler and have brought a lawsuit to close it down.
The opponents are led by Jynona Norwood, a pastor who, long before losing 27 family members in Jonestown, urged them to leave Peoples Temple. For years after the massacre, she was the only person to host memorial services at the burial site at Evergreen, collecting money and promising, without success, to build a memorial wall.
On the other side is a group of survivors, including some of Jones's descendants, who say the religious content of Ms. Norwood's services and her condemnation of Peoples Temple have long alienated survivors.
The group's leaders include one of Jones's adopted sons, Jim Jones Jr.; John Cobb, a former Jonestown basketball player; and Fielding McGehee, co-founder of the Jonestown Institute, a clearinghouse for documents about the Peoples Temple. His wife, the other founder, lost two sisters in the massacre.
Last month, a judge denied Ms. Norwood's bid to put a stop to the memorial. Ms. Norwood accused the group of resuscitating the church, an allegation it denies.
''You haven't changed if you're telling people to honor a man that was so evil,'' Ms. Norwood said recently. ''This is not the end of this, trust me. I will sue to have my mother's name off that atrocious, wicked, evil wall.''
During the ceremony, stories of woe and mourning were interspersed with fond recollections of cult life. Many survivors said they still believed in the foundations of Peoples Temple, including ideas of racial and economic equality that Jones had espoused in earlier years.
''In its very essence, it was about peace and justice for all people,'' said Mr. Cobb's brother, James.
''This is not the place for an opinion piece,'' Mr. McGehee said of Ms. Norwood's anger. ''This is a place for history.''
After the dedication, the group of survivors met at a home in Richmond, exchanging stories and hugs. Ms. Barbour, who had once donated money to Ms. Norwood, lamented the divide.
''I wish I could call her. I wish I could say something,'' she said. ''I feel bad for Jynona, I really do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CEMETERIES (90%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); RELIGION (78%); SUICIDE (72%); LITIGATION (72%); FAMILY (71%); JUDGES (67%); BASKETBALL (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



85 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 8081 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
- American Folk Art Museum: 'Quilts: Masterworks from the American Folk Art Museum' (Through Oct. 16.) This exhibition celebrating quilts from the museum's collection reveals the optical vitality of these eminently pictorial textiles. Ranging across a variety of patterns and techniques and nearly two centuries, the examples here effortlessly combine personal and national histories with rigorous down-home formalism, all the while making brilliant use of available, often humble, fabrics. The various geometric ins and outs, color contrasts and boldly scaled compositions confirm that quilts, like Navajo blankets, are among the earliest abstract art in post-conquest North America. 45 West 53rd Street , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)20110602
American Folk Art Museum: 'Super Stars: Quilts From the American Folk Art Museum' (Through Sept. 25.) In conjunction with the exhibition of quilts at the main museum, its branch is featuring 20 quilts in which stars figure in some way, whether as pieced-together geometric forms or as little tufts of thread that suggest a distant galaxy. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue, at 66th Street , (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Smith)20110602 
American Folk Art Museum: 'Eugene Von Bruenchenhein: Freelance Artist -- Poet and Sculptor -- Inovator -- Arrow maker and Plant man -- Bone artifacts constructor -- Photographer and Architect -- Philosopher' (Through Oct. 9.) Whether photographing his wife as a sweetly chaste pinup girl; fashioning plant forms from scrounged clay or little thrones from salvaged turkey bones; or making delicate ballpoint-pen drawings or hallucinatory paintings rife with intimations of exotic undersea or sci-fi worlds, this self-taught, self-proclaimed multitasker (as made clear in the show's subtitle) never wavered in his sense of his own greatness. Mounted 27 years after his death, his first American museum survey doesn't quite do him justice and especially shortchanges the paintings, but it presents the fruits of his ceaseless labors with a clarity that makes them feel of a piece, and like a gift. 45 West 53rd Street , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Smith)20110602
- Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum: 'Color Moves: Art and Fashion by Sonia Delaunay' (Through June 19.) Examining the more practical side of Delaunay's pioneering achievement, this beautiful, enlightening exhibition offers some alluring artworks, garments and accessories, especially a passel of radiant scarves. But it bets most of the house on fabric swatches -- Delaunay's textile designs -- and succeeds with a display of some 90 gouache studies for textiles and their equally vibrant commercial results: more than 120 hand-printed silks, velvets and cottons laid out in large vitrines. Patterns ranging from geometric to floral variously revisit, amplify and presage much of the history of modern painting and may even deserve a place in that history. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Smith)20110602
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum: 'Set in Style: The Jewelry of Van Cleef & Arpels' (Through July 4.) Van Cleef & Arpels, the century-old French jewelry firm, is the primary sponsor of this show and has supplied much of its mega-carat menu: some 350 lavish pieces worn by royals, screen sirens and social swans. Although extravagance doesn't seem out of place in this former Carnegie mansion, the show often looks as if it were put together by the company's creative directors and merchandisers. The visitors lining up around the block don't seem to care, as long as they can linger over pieces like a maharani's carved-emerald necklace and large sapphire-and-diamond pendant earrings worn by Elizabeth Taylor. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20110602
- Japan Society: 'Bye Bye Kitty!!! Between Heaven and Hell in Contemporary Japanese Art' (Through June 12.) This piquant exhibition of dark-minded work was conceived as a sharp counterweight to the cult of cuteness that has been Japan's dominant aesthetic for decades. No one could have known that the show's images of material fragility and decay would end up being seen in the light of real-life disaster. But such is the case, and the mood of anxiety that pervades the work of the 16 artists is more evident than it might have been otherwise. 333 East 47th Street , (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Holland Cotter)20110602
Jewish Museum: 'Collecting Matisse and Modern Masters: The Cone Sisters of Baltimore' (Through Sept. 25.) At the Jewish Museum, this exhibition samples the extraordinary trove of European art amassed by two American spinsters in the first half of the 20th century, work now owned by the Baltimore Museum of Art. Although some major collection highlights are absent, the pieces here -- presented in the order of acquisition -- generate a compelling portrait of the Cones as collectors. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20110602
Jewish Museum: 'Maira Kalman: Various Illuminations (of a Crazy World)' (Through July 31.) Like her fellow New Yorker magazine contributors Ed Koren and Roz Chast, Ms. Kalman offers gently humorous cartoon commentary on the trials and tribulations of modern metropolitan life. Ranging in style from faux-naive eccentricity to suave realism, the more than two decades worth of drawings and paintings on paper in this career survey make for an entertaining if not deeply provocative experience. With a flea market-like installation of nondescript objects from her personal collection, however, she tries too hard to be amazingly original. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20110602
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Andean Tunic, 400 B.C.E.-1800 C.E.' (Through Sept. 18.) This small show celebrates the festive yet functional garments woven south of the equator. To the modern eye, they're wearable paintings; lovers of Keith Haring and Elizabeth Murray will find much to admire. So will anyone interested in the complex relationships among art, clothing, ritual and power. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20110602
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Anthony Caro on the Roof' (Through Oct. 30.) No one in the 1960s produced groovier abstract sculpture than the British artist Anthony Caro, five of whose heavy metal assemblages grace the Met's Rooftop Garden. But only one of these works has that startling, newborn feeling. Sporting a brand-new coat of shiny, taxicab yellow paint, ''Midday'' (1960) has the look of a jaunty, industrial dinosaur. The others, dating from 1968 to 2010, show a development toward an increasingly conservative, ponderous monumentality. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110602
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Guitar Heroes: Legendary Craftsmen from Italy to New York' (Through July 4.) The heroes of this exceptionally interesting show are three craftsmen known for producing some of the most sought-after jazz guitars of the 20th century. Part I surveys a history of Italian luthiers from 17th-century Naples to Italian immigrants producing string instruments in New York in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Part II presents lovingly made archtop guitars and mandolins dating from 1923 to 2008 by inheritors of that tradition: John D'Angelico, James D'Aquisto and John Monteleone. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110602
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty' (Through Aug. 7.) A triumph for this British fashion designer -- who died at 40, by his own hand, last year -- and for the curator Andrew Bolton of the Met's Costume Institute, this career retrospective is ethereal and gross, graceful and manipulative, and poised on a line where fashion turns into something else. The operatic spectacle is pushed along by soundtrack of wind, Handel and orgiastic moans, and has a holographic image of Kate Moss spinning like a moth in a flame at the center. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20110602
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Night Vision: Photography After Dark' (Through Sept. 18.) It wasn't until the gelatin dry-plate process was introduced in the late 1880s that exposure time was lowered enough for photographs to be taken regularly after dark. Alfred Stieglitz was among the first to photograph New York at night. His work is shown alongside Berenice Abbott's spectral ''Nightview, New York'' from 1932, taken from the window of a skyscraper; Brassai's nocturnal views of Paris; and Weegee's high-contrast picture of a crime scene. Diane Arbus, Bill Brandt, Robert Frank, Garry Winogrand and Kohei Yoshiyuki are among the other artists included in this modest, lovely show of 40 black-and-white photographs drawn from the museum's collection, which stops a couple of decades short of the present. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)20110602
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Poetry in Clay: Korean Buncheong Ceramics from Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art' (Through Aug. 14.) This beautiful exhibition presents bottles, vases, bowls and dishes made by 15th- and 16th-century Korean artisans. In shades of gray, from creamy and opalescent off-whites to deep, warm blacks, the anonymous craftsmen covered vessels with loosely rendered images of flora and fauna and fine-grained patterns of dots and tiny blossoms. These infectiously lively works look as if they'd been made not centuries but only decades ago. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110602
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Rooms with a View: The Open Window in the 19th Century' (Through July 4.) This compact, quietly splendid exhibition explores the window as luminous light source, as semi-abstract compositional element and as the focal point for a certain poignant, implicitly Romantic yearning. The images -- mostly by German, French and Scandinavian artists before 1830 -- depict both domestic settings and artists' studios and are passively subversive in their avoidance of large-scale, historic themes and formal portraiture. They show us a world on the verge of electricity, photography and industrialization, a moment of irretrievable, partly fictive calm that incites some yearning of its own. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20110602
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Richard Serra Drawing: A Retrospective' (Through Aug. 28.) Few artists have pushed drawing to such sculptural and even architectural extremes as Mr. Serra, so it makes sense that his adamantine pursuit of the medium, surveyed in an installation that he largely designed himself, is not quite like anything seen at the Met before. There are moments of off-putting starkness on Mr. Serra's side and some of the usual architectural infelicities on the Met's, but as a demonstration of this august institution's willingness to engage with genuinely radical, physically unsettling art of recent vintage, the show is cause for hope. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20110602
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Tibetan Arms and Armor From the Permanent Collection' (Through fall.) The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Met's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Later Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, created this follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including five acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense; examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20110602
MoMA P.S. 1: 'Laurel Nakadate: Only the Lonely' (Through Aug. 8.) Laurel Nakadate might be on the cusp of a great new career. She is known for disconcerting, sad and sexually provocative videos that she enlisted older, worse-for-wear men to participate in, but in the past three years she has made two feature-length films. Included in this enthralling survey of her 10-year career, they focus with lingering, heart-aching care on adolescent girls, lost souls looking for love and only getting into trouble. MoMA P.S. 1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20110602
Morgan Library & Museum: 'The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection' (Through Aug. 28.) This small but engrossing exhibition presents about three dozen works dating from the mid 17th to the late 19th centuries by European artists, each in his own way a draftsman of consummate skill. Some names, like Boucher and Millais, are familiar; most will be known only to art historical specialists. Ranging from postcard to laptop size, including portraiture, still-life and mythological scenes, they exemplify the fine but now endangered art of drawing at its best. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Johnson)20110602
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Illuminating Fashion: Dress in the Art of Medieval France and the Netherlands' (Through Sept. 4.) Medieval illuminations -- so rich in narrative, embellishment and religious expression -- can display sartorial trends that can help experts date manuscripts and discern the subtleties of a figure's status or character. There are many examples here, as well as mannequins in full-scale model attire -- say, a splendid hunting ensemble of gold-embroidered blue velvet and lilac wool felt for the men, and for the women, a princessy gown of yellow silk trimmed in black crushed velvet, accessorized by a turret. This lively show will teach you to scrutinize centuries-old manuscripts as you would a style magazine. 225 Madison, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20110602
Museum of Biblical Art: 'Passion in Venice: Crivelli to Tintoretto and Veronese' (Through June 12.) This fascinating exhibition presents about 60 well-chosen paintings, sculptures and objects by famous artists and unidentified artisans, all representing a major iconic image of Christendom: Jesus as the Man of Sorrows, post-Crucifixion, pre-Resurrection. Michele Giambono's 15th-century painting pictures him in anguish with bleeding palms and blood dripping from the thorns of his crown. In a late 16th-century, classicizing painting by Paolo Veronose, he slumps in the arms of an angel like a defeated athlete. Don't miss the small, wooden head of Jesus with a tiny, spring-loaded, pop-up Man of Sorrows. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street , (212) 408-1500, mobia.org. (Johnson)20110602
Museum of Modern Art: 'Access to Tools: Publications From the Whole Earth Catalog, 1968-1974' (Through July 26.) Brainchild of the visionary techno-hippie artist Steward Brand, the Whole Earth Catalog did for counterculture youth in the '60s what the Sears catalog did for children of the Great Depression and what Google does for people of the Internet age: provide a way for ordinary citizens to connect with and make use of the global economy. This modest but stirring time capsule of an exhibition presents various editions of the catalog, along with a mind-expanding array of books, magazines and ephemera that influenced or exemplified its holistic mission. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)20110602
Museum of Modern Art: 'Francis Als: A Story of Deception' (Through Aug. 1.) This possibly premature, hit-and-miss survey of the quixotic, politically aware, yet obstinately poetic art of this Belgian artist, who has lived in Mexico since 1986, whipsaws a visitor between engagement and boredom, serious consideration and dismissal. In the show, at MoMA and its P.S. 1 site in Queens (closes Sept. 12), the best works are videos, but the split exhibition is garnished, you might say, with sometimes appealing paintings and sculptures and also dulled with extensive backup materials: studies, notes, texts and newspaper clippings pertaining to most of the works on view. Too often the result confirms this museum's blind faith in the wan, cerebral machinations of late-late-late Conceptualism. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20110602
- Museum of Modern Art: 'German Expressionism: The Graphic Impulse' (Through July 11.) MoMA's largest ever survey of Germany's first modern art movement is infused with an urgent, crackling energy, by turns joyful, satiric, grim and tragic. Presenting some 250 works -- most of them little-seen prints -- it celebrates one of the 20th century's most brutally effective, socially responsive unions of medium and message and shakes up the (understandable) conventional wisdom that the museum is almost terminally Francophile. While lavish, the show reveals but a fraction of the museum's 3,200 Expressionist works on paper, all of which are newly available for digital viewing at moma.org/explore/multimedia/interactives/161. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20110602
Museum of Modern Art: 'I Am Still Alive: Politics and Everyday Life in Contemporary Drawing' (Through Sept. 19.) This show of contemporary drawings (most acquired since 2005) is anchored by a group of telegrams sent by the Japanese artist On Kawara to friends and associates; each one bears the message ''I am still alive.'' The artists seem to be in a permanent state of wariness and suspicion, which is sometimes the result of political instability and at other times more innate. But their efforts to process matters of life and death in short bursts of creative activity feel very of the moment. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20110602
Neue Galerie: 'Vienna 1900: Style and Identity' (Through June 27.) One of history's more fraught fin-de-siecle efflorescences of art and thought is recounted in a shifting kaleidoscope of paintings, drawings, architectural models, posters and several species of decorative arts. Among paintings by Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka and Egon Schiele, there is also a re-creation of Freud's psychoanalytic couch, an eye-popping tribute to the Vienna Secession and a crowded face-off between the designer-theoreticians Josef Hoffmann and Adolf Loos. Over all, it resembles a tasting menu with enough rich and disparate flavors that the gaps and omissions can be overlooked. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.com. (Smith)20110602
- New Museum: 'Lynda Benglis' (Through June 19.) This startlingly excellent resurrection of the prescient Post-Minimalist renegade and her gaudy, multidexterous, often gender-bending segues among Process, Performance and Body Art is long overdue. Carefully chosen, it includes her notorious 1974 Artforum ad, but it gives pride of place to her equally flamboyant, if abstract, evocations of the body in pigmented wax, latex and polyurethane foam. Taking tips from Pollock, these works combine the dancer and the dance, unleash painting into real space and mock the less colorful efforts of her mostly masculine contemporaries. The through line: feminist intuition, formalist excess and a reckless disregard for art-world standards and practices. Bravo. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)20110602
New Museum: 'Apichatpong Weerasethakul: Primitive' (Through July 3.) Focusing on teenage boys in rural Thailand, the celebrated Thai filmmaker Apichatpong Weerasethakul has produced an expansive, multiscreen video installation that is, by turns, beautiful, tedious, opaque and affectingly poetic. With the patience-testing style we've come to expect of avant-garde moviemaking, ''Primitive'' revolves around the playful construction of a time-traveling spaceship by village youths. The obliquely invoked background is a half-century of war and civil strife that has taken the lives of countless young men in Southeast Asia. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110602
- Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture: 'Soulful Stitching: Patchwork Quilts by Africans (Siddis) of India' (Through June 30.) The 15 brilliant contemporary quilts in this show were made by women of the Siddi ethnic group, descendants of early African migrants to South Asia, including slaves brought by Portuguese colonists in the 16th century. Strips and patches of recycled cloth -- solid-colored, patterned or shot through with glittery threads -- are the basic components. Together the results look like a spring garden in bloom. New York Public Library, 515 Lenox Avenue, at 135th Street, Hamilton Heights , nypl.org. (Cotter)20110602
Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian: 'A Song for the Horse Nation' (Through July 7.) Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing, beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20110602
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Cory Arcangel: Pro Tools' (Through Sept. 11.) This solo turn from Mr. Arcangel, the digital wunderkind, artist-musician and inveterate hacker, seems a trifle scrubbed clean, sanitized and austere. Containing work almost entirely from 2011, it tells us little of his funkier early digital efforts or artistic development. A few pieces reflect his longstanding interest in television and video games; in others he tries too hard to establish his formalist bona fides with wry riffs on abstract painting and sculpture. Mr. Arcangel seems guided by a somewhat callow faith in the avant-garde, striving to perpetuate its tradition, dating from Duchamp, of laying claim to new areas of nonart for art's sake. Sometimes he succeeds, but not always. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20110602
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Breaking Ground: The Whitney's Founding Collection' (Through Sept. 18.) In anticipation of its move to a new home in 2015, the Whitney is cooking up a series of six back-to-back experimental permanent collection shows at its present location. The first of them is a sampler of the earliest work in the holdings, and as a summary of the institution's initial view of American Modernism, what a curious thing it is. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20110602
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Singular Visions' (Continuing.) With its ''one artwork per room'' rule, ''Singular Visions'' is a refreshing departure from the typical collection sampler. The show's work includes pieces by A A Bronson, Sarah Charlesworth, Robert Grosvenor, Eva Hesse, Edward Kienholz and Georgia O'Keeffe; some rooms are more intriguing than others, but on the whole the show feels like a necessary experiment. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20110602
Galleries: Uptown
- Eric Fischl: 'Early Paintings' (Through June 18.) Mr. Fischl produced some psychologically astounding paintings in the early 1980s. Made with a loose, expressionist touch on medium-large canvases, his emotionally raw, semi-photorealist images of adolescent Oedipal confusion still project a dreamy, penetrating acidity. ''Sleepwalker'' (1979) pictures a skinny, naked boy standing in the shin-deep water of an aqua plastic pool hunched over and masturbating in a suburban backyard. It is a classic. Skarstedt, 20 East 79th Street , (212) 737-2060, skarstedt.com. (Johnson)20110602
Ryoji Ikeda: 'the transfinite,' (Through June 11.) This huge electronic light-and-sound installation by the internationally celebrated avant-garde composer Ryoji Ikeda is spectacular, trippy and fun. Projected onto one giant wall, optically dazzling stripes on one side and fields of mathematical data on the other scroll continuously to the aggressively percussive sounds of computer-generated music. It may be more slick entertainment than high art, but for a few moments it is totally captivating. Park Avenue Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street , (212) 616-3930, armoryonpark.org. (Johnson)20110602
- 'Kota Ancestors' (Through June 11.) Orchestrated by the Paris dealer Bernard Dulon, this ravishing show affords a rare opportunity to study the stylistic variations and variety of Kota reliquary figures, as exemplified by 15 outstanding examples. Their large concave faces, delicately stylized features, inventive metalwork surfaces and ineffably human geometries are among the cornerstones of European Modernism, starting with Picasso's ''Demoiselles d'Avignon.'' Friedman & Vallois, 27 East 67th Street , (212) 517-3820, vallois.com. (Smith)20110602
'Nubia: Ancient Kingdoms of Africa' (Through June 12.) ''Nubia'' takes you deep into the history of a volatile part of Africa. The show occupies just two small galleries but spans a 500-mile stretch of the Nile River Valley (now northern Sudan and southern Egypt) and more than 2,250 years (from about 3000 B.C. through 750 B.C.). Pottery, statues and funerary objects chart the dizzying power swings between Egypt and Nubia, cultures that traded goods as well as blows. Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, New York University, 15 East 84th Street , (212) 992-7800, nyu.edu/isaw. (Rosenberg)20110602
'Soutine/Bacon' (Through June 18.) This intense show pairs still lifes, landscapes and portraits by Chaim Soutine (1893-1943) and Francis Bacon (1909-92). The two shared an appetite for viscera and a zest for reinterpreting the masters, but Soutine is the stronger voice here; standouts include the Tate's ''Landscape at Ceret (The Storm),'' a crackling mass of thunderheads that anticipates Pollock and de Kooning, and a glistening ''Still Life With Ray Fish,'' made in homage to Chardin's ''Skate.'' Helly Nahmad Gallery, 975 Madison Avenue, at 76th Street , (212) 879-2075, hellynahmadgallery.com. (Rosenberg)20110602
'John Storrs' (Through June 30.) This exhibition, by emphasizing relatively realistic works, complements the illuminating survey of the American sculptor John Storrs (1885-1956) -- best known for his Deco-ish evocations of abstracted skyscrapers -- at New York University's Grey Art Gallery. The works here include figures, portrait busts and terra cotta reliefs, as well as an array of wood-cuts, drawings and a few paintings; they present a softer, more personal side of Storrs's sensibility. Meredith Ward Fine Art, 44 East 74th Street , (212) 744-7306, meredithwardfineart.com. (Smith)20110602
- Andy Warhol: 'Colored Campbell's Soup Cans' (Through June 11.) This might be the most beautiful Andy Warhol show you'll ever see. In 1965, three years after creating his first paintings of Campbell's tomato soup cans, Warhol produced a series of 20 in a ravishing range of tropical colors. This exhibition, the first ever to focus on the series, presents 12 of them, every one a delicious piece of eye candy. L&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street , (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com. (Johnson)20110602
Galleries: 57th Street
'Decadence and Decay: Max Beckmann, Otto Dix, George Grosz' (Through June 24.) This seductively titled show of 65 works by these three Weimar-era luminaries complements the Museum of Modern Art's current show of German Expressionist prints. Dix is the standout, with Neue Sachlichkeit portrait drawings that make figures look both vulnerable and monstrous. Also here are prints from his 1924 cycle ''The War,'' which can be seen at MoMA in its terrifying entirety. Galerie St. Etienne, 24 West 57th Street, Manhattan , (212) 245-6734, gseart.com. (Rosenberg)20110602
Galleries: Chelsea
- John Chamberlain: 'New Sculpture' (Through July 8.) In some of the largest works of his career, this venerable American sculptor uses his signature materials -- crushed car bodies and fenders -- with tremendous compositional variety, verve and his usual unerring color sense. Variously comical, stately, architectural and gestural, these pieces erupt from the gallery's expansive concrete floors like unusually well-shaped mesas, creating an exhilarating indoor landscape. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street , (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Smith)20110602
John Divola: 'Trees for the Forest' (Through June 18.) This mini-survey of John Divola, a Los Angeles-based conceptual photographer, reveals the depth and diversity of that city's art scene. Early shots of artistic interventions in vandalized homes have an experimental, Man Ray-meets-Gordon Matta-Clark aesthetic; other works recall Bruce Nauman and Bas Jan Ader. Wallspace, 619 West 27th Street , (212) 594-9478, wallspacegallery.com. (Rosenberg)20110602
Cao Fei: 'Play Time' (Through June 25.) In the last couple of years the Beijing-based artist Cao Fei has been building eerie simulacrums of modern Chinese society within virtual-reality games. But in her latest show she works in real space, with all its complexities and restrictions, and engages older forms of entertainment and fantasy. Her photographs and videos are now populated by shadow puppets, skateboarders and children's television characters instead of avatars. In the context of China's crackdown on cultural expression, Ms. Cao's juvenilia seems to express a longing for some basic adult freedoms. Lombard Freid Projects, 518 West 19th Street , (212) 967-8040, lombard-freid.com. (Rosenberg)20110602
- Mark Grotjahn: 'Nine Faces' (Through June 25.) Full of thatches of thrashing, live-wire lines made with a surprisingly methodical palette-knife technique, Mr. Grotjahn's newest paintings are harsh, elegant things that enthrall the eye and splinter the mind. Ellipses and circles tumble about among the lines, intimating fractured features and calling attention to the nominal masklike faces of early Picasso and Matisse, Jawlensky and Brancusi. Altogether, they emphasize painting as a psychic and bodily process, fueled in part by the devouring and digesting of previous art to formulate a new synthesis. Anton Kern Gallery, 532 West 20th Street , (212) 367-9663, antonkerngallery.com. (Smith)20110602
Jene Highstein: 'New Sculpture: Towers and Elliptical Forms' (Through June 16.) The latest from this Post-Minimalist sculptor, long interested in tacitly organic monoliths, is a series of soaring spires and relatively earthbound orbs subtly shaped in matte sandblasted (and vaguely ceramic-like) stainless steel. Together they intimate a high desert landscape, abstracted. Danese, 535 West 24th Street , (212) 223-2227, danese.com. (Smith)20110602
- Jasper Johns: 'New Sculpture and Works on Paper' (Through July 1.) The centerpiece of this pleasantly miscellaneous show is a large cast-aluminum relief and six smaller two-sided ones in cast bronze and silver, which put grids of the numbers zero through nine through elaborate variations in texture, legibility and suggestion. Among the artist's first cast-metal objects in some years, they exemplify his trenchant recycling of motifs and clarify his tendency to conflate aspects of printing, painting and sculpture (and collage). Their mesmerizing combination of lapidary detail and casual process reveals the intensity of Mr. Johns's mind with unusual clarity. Matthew Marks Gallery, 522 West 22nd Street , (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Smith)20110602
- 'Donald Judd' (Through June 25.) Nine large silvery, seemingly identical floor boxes, all open at the top, turn out to have markedly different and expansive interiors, articulated by various vertical divisions and planes of colors. These wells of space and color exemplify Judd's frequent use of surprise to create suspense and clarity; they also reflect his origins in painting and his lifelong admiration for the simple forms and strong colors of painters like Barnett Newman, Mark Rothko and Josef Albers. David Zwirner, 525 and 533 West 19th Street , (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com. (Smith)20110602
Louise Lawler: 'Fitting at Metro Pictures' (Through June 11.) These canny photographs of art in situ at museums, auction houses, galleries and collectors' homes are similar to those in Ms. Lawler's last couple of shows, but here she has tweaked the pictures' dimensions to make them strictly proportional to the gallery walls. She has also printed the adjusted images on adhesive wall stickers, enhancing the illusion of a gallery-within-a-gallery. The distortions are cleverly deployed, as are changes in scale; Ms. Lawler turns Degas's ''Little Dancer'' into a Goliath and makes good on the ''giant-size'' promise of Warhol's Brillo-box packaging. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street , (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com. (Rosenberg)20110602
Carter Mull: 'The Day's Specific Dreams' (Through June 11.) Carter Mull's first solo show is part newsroom, part darkroom. His subject is the life of print, from birth to its current death throes, though like most artists, he's not an objective biographer. In his photographs and drawings, blobs of prismatic color encroach on accounts of revolution in Egypt (from the Jan. 30 and 31 issues of The New York Times) and illustrations of printing presses and writing tools from Diderot's Encyclopedia. Taxter & Spengemann, 459 West 18th Street , (212) 924-0212, taxterandspengemann.com. (Rosenberg)20110602
- Picasso and Marie-Therese: 'L'Amour Fou' (Through June 25.) While falling short of the exhibition of late Picasso paintings and prints that filled this space two years ago, the latest Gagosian exegesis into Picasso land is a wonderfully motley, almost scattershot affair, brilliantly installed. It presents works, in all mediums and several styles, that Picasso made during the late 1920s and '30s, when he was under the spell of the voluptuous, Roman-nosed, level-eyed, full-limbed Marie-Therese Walter, arguably the love of his life. Anchored by this single if perpetually mutating subject, the art on hand confirms that when Picasso told Walter she had saved his life, he meant that she had also saved his art. Gagosian Gallery, 522 West 21st Street , (212) 741-1717, gagosian.com. (Smith)20110602
Tobias Putrih: 'When Language Goes on a Holiday' (Through June 25.) The latest from this Slovenian artist is a flexible system of thin, mostly hexagonal, perforated sheets of black aluminum that can be bolted together any number of ways. Here they yield abstract sculpture, partitions (some used for displaying chair designs by the early modern Swedish designer Erik Gunnar Asplund) and furniture. A mordant yet genuine utopianism results. Meulensteen, 511 West 22nd Street , (212) 633-6999, meulensteen.com. (Smith)20110602
- Jo Ractliffe: 'Terras do Fim do Mundo (The Lands of the End of the World)' (Through July 15.) At first glance, this South African photographer's black-and-white shots of sun-baked Angolan landscapes look random and bland: rocks, dirt, scrubby trees; some handwritten signs but no people. Only when you read some of the titles -- ''Mass Grave at Cassinga,'' ''Minefield Near Mupa''-- do you learn where people are, or once were, and the pictures snap into expressive focus. The Walther Collection Project Space, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 718 , (212) 352-0683, walthercollection.com. (Cotter)20110602
- Vladimir Tatlin: 'Monument to the Third InternAtional' (Through July 30.) Concocted by a founder of Russian Constructivism between 1915 and 1920, following close encounters with the Eiffel Tower and Picasso's guitar constructions in Paris, this tilting, spiraling, viaduct-like structure is one of early Modernism's most ambitious and best-known works of unrealized architecture, embodied by one of its biggest architectural models. Shown in the United States for the first time -- the oldest (1967) remake of the original model, which disappeared around 1932 -- it is dense with portents of 20th-century sculpture to come, from LeWitt's grids to Smithson's jetty. Tony Shafrazi, 544 West 26th Street , (212) 274-9300, tonyshafrazigallery.com. (Smith)20110602
Richard Tuttle: 'What's the Wind' (Through July 22.) Working quite a bit larger than usual, this Post-Minimalist master of seeming trifles presents a series of deftly cobbled-together thingamajigs that charm and challenge. Each presents a kind of stage-set-like open volume of sculptural events patched together from colorful, lightweight materials and objects. The result is a somewhat slovenly, art-supplies Constructivism that is characteristically light, ephemeral and full of joy. Pace Gallery, 510 West 25th Street , (212) 255-4044, thepacegallery.com. (Smith)20110602
- Gillian Wearing: 'People' (Through June 24.) This British artist's first New York show in eight years more than makes up for lost time. In three very different video works, she relentlessly tests the limits of what might be called narrated portraiture, coaxing forth unstated feelings and scarring experiences or, in one instance, reviewing several decades of snapshot styles to recast a demurely resentful life story. She also eerily re-enacts three famous portraits of famous photographers using her signature custom-made rubber masks and ventures into three dimensions with two small statues that pay tribute to everyday heroes. Life daunts, but the living persist. Tanya Bonakdar Gallery, 521 West 21st Street , (212) 414-4144, tanyabonakdargallery.com. (Smith)20110602
- Stephen Westfall: 'Seraphim: Paintings and works on paper' (Through June 11.) While this exhibition has several abstract canvases of interest, the centerpiece is a large wall painting felicitously framed by the gallery architecture and dominated by a tipped (diamond) square, whose bold concentric bands change color at every corner. The syncopated progression of hues, which is more intuitive than systematic, creates a wonderful, jangling destabilization, warping space and confirming scale (not size) as the living energy source that it is. You would think that related works by Frank Stella and Sol LeWitt would not have left Mr. Westfall much room to move, but he proves otherwise. Lennon Weinberg Inc., 514 West 25th Street , (212) 941-0012, lennonweinberg.com. (Smith)20110602
Galleries: SoHo
- Alvin Baltrop: 'Photographs 1965-2003' (Through June 18.) All but unknown in his lifetime, the photographer Alvin Baltrop (1948-2004) focused much of his energy on documenting the illicit erotic and aesthetic life on abandoned shipping piers along the West Side of Manhattan in the 1970s and '80s. Image by image the work is uneven, but there are wonderful things, and the cumulative impact is potent, not only as art produced by an exceptional eye but as a record of a turning-point moment in time, just before and after AIDS struck. Third Streaming, 10 Greene Street, second floor , (646) 370-3877, thirdstreaming.com. (Cotter)20110602
- 'Drawing and Its Double: Selections from the Istituto Nazionale per la Grafica' (Through June 24.) The drawings in this show take an unusual form: they are the designs etched by artists, using burins and acid, on metal plates from which prints (the ''double'' of the title) are made. The selection begins on a grand note with a set of 10 oddly shaped copper plates made for a 16th-century print version of Michelanglo's ''Last Judgment'' and concludes with expressionistic illustrations by the contemporary artist Paolo Canevari on the Ten Commandments. Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street , (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Cotter)20110602
Galleries: Other
- 'David Adamo' (Through June 19.) This brilliant solo debut from a young New York artist now living in Berlin forms an expansive meditation on sculpture and its materials, evocations and traditional techniques, both additive and subtractive. A New England stone wall reads as a lumpy Carl Andre floor piece. An array of cedar beams evoke both Mr. Andre's early work and Brancusi's studio, but not too reverentially. Casualness alternates with bravura precision, like the trompe-l'oeil-painted plaster casts of partly eaten fruit that are strewn everywhere and form a dispersed vanitas. There's more, and the cumulative effect is refreshingly open-ended. Untitled, 30 Orchard Street, Lower East Side , (212) 608-6002, nyuntitled.com. (Smith)20110602
Elaine Cameron-Weir: 'without true bazaars' (Through June 18.) In this modest yet convincing debut, Minimalist simplicity, and several kinds of rectilinear form, are explored with wit, physical variety and an admirable economy of means. The works include a Persian rug dipped in indigo dye; a long, gracefully curved wood dowel covered in rolling tobacco; a scent-emitting wall piece; and best of all, ''Pedestal,'' a tall, narrow, stepped monolith tenderly worked in plaster that resembles an architectural model for a skyscraper. Ramiken Crucible, 389 Grand Street, Lower East Side , (917) 434-4245, ramikencrucible.com. (Smith)20110602
- 'Ethiopian Magic Scrolls: Talismanic Art of Ethiopia' (Through June 30.) In 2005, the London dealer Sam Fogg blew us away with an exhibition of Ethiopian Christian liturgical art. Now, in association with Milos Simovic of Elizabeth Street Fine Arts, he follows up with a show of 18th- and 19th-century painted and written scrolls that emerged from Ethiopian popular religion. And they are equally, if very differently, wondrous. Figures of warrior-saints and archangels rub shoulders with demons; talismanic designs mingle with New Testament quotations. They're all tucked away like a hidden trove in the back of a shop specializing mostly in Coney Island antiques. Elizabeth Street Fine Arts, 209 Elizabeth Street, Nolita , (212) 274-9400, elizabethstreetfinearts.com. (Cotter)20110602
'Hilary Harnischfeger' (Through June 19.) For her third gallery solo show in New York, this artist supplements her already robust combination of materials and mediums -- which include paper, plaster, paint and minerals -- with multicolored clay. This complicates things considerably in terms of surface, form and hue, yielding in particular a series of small, truculent, impacted, free-standing works that refuse easy categorization. Rachel Uffner Gallery, 47 Orchard Street, Lower East Side , (212) 274-0064, racheluffnergallery.com. (Smith)20110602
John Storrs: 'Machine-Age Modernist' (Through July 9.) The Chicago-born artist John Storrs (1885-1956) compacted utopian, machine-age dreaming into Cubist-Art Deco-style sculptures resembling pieces of architectural ornament and models of skyscrapers. There is nothing quite like his dense, carefully wrought stone and metal sculptures in early American -- or European, for that matter -- Modernism, and this finely tuned show gives a good account of his progress from the late '10s to the early '30s. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East , (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)20110602
Public Art
Eva Rothschild: 'Empire' (Through Aug. 28.) At the southeast entrance to Central Park stands a colorful, tubular structure resembling a swing-set frame designed by spiders on LSD. Touching ground at 10 points on the cobbled plaza, its red, green and black striped posts rise at different angles into an airy web over 18 feet at its highest point. A playful riff on the ancient form of the triumphal arch, ''Empire'' will be a required photo-op for tourists and other visitors. Doris C. Freedman Plaza, Central Park, 60th Street and Fifth Avenue, Public Art Fund , (212) 223-7800, publicartfund.org. (Cotter)20110602
Out of Town
- Anacostia Community Museum: 'Word, Shout, Song: Lorenzo Dow Turner, Connecting Communities Through Language' (Through July 24.) Housed in a converted movie theater in a predominantly African-American neighborhood that is a cab ride's distance from the National Mall, the Anacostia Community Museum is one of Washington's cultural secrets. Its exhibition on the scholar Lorenzo Dow Turner (1890-1972), who documented surviving traces of African languages and customs in modern African-American culture, is both an archival homage and a well-paced drama of ideas. Smithsonian Institution, 1901 Fort Place SE, Washington , (202) 633-4820, anacostia.si.edu. (Cotter)20110602
- Princeton University Art Museum: 'Kurt Schwitters: Color and Collage' (Through June 26.) The German artist Kurt Schwitters, who died in 1948, is one of Modernism's true delights, though seen far less often than he deserves to be. This smallish show, his first substantial survey since the 1985 Museum of Modern Art retrospective, is made up primarily of wonderful collages spanning his career, from garrulous early examples made from the odds and ends of urban life -- tram tickets, stamps, receipts -- to the light-and-shadow late ones, done when he was in wartime exile in England and living, as he loved to be, surrounded by nature. From very first to very last, he's golden, and worth the trip to see. Princeton, N.J. , (609) 258-3788, artmuseum.princeton.edu. (Cotter)20110602
Last Chance
Mary Frank: 'Transformations: Wood Sculpture, 1957-1967, and Recent Photographs' (Closes on Saturday.) This exhibition rescues from oblivion 11 gruffly carved, often erotically charged wood sculptures whose forms tend to mutate surprisingly when seen from different angles. They draw variously from Brancusi, Degas and folk art and share aspects with works made at the same time by Raoul Hague, Bill King and H. C. Westermann. Here they are accompanied by recent photographs that offer some weird, distinctly Frankian wrinkles to the set-up tendency. D.C. Moore Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea , (212) 247-2111, dcmooregallery.com. (Smith)20110602
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Katrin Sigurdardottir at the Met' (Closes on Sunday.) This Icelandic New Yorker has created a pair of fanciful, quasi-architectural constructions inspired by two of the museum's French neo-Classical period rooms. Ms. Sigurdardottir's versions are all-white abstractions of their models, made with exacting craft but with simplified details. One with skewed windows and doors in a descending spiral of abutted panels could be a Modernist set for ''Alice in Wonderland.'' At 85 percent life-size, the other, an octagonal interior viewable only through one-way mirrors, has a magical, otherworldly glow. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110602
- Matthew Miller: 'the magic black of an open barn door on a really sunny summer day, when you just cannot see into it' (Closes on Sunday.) Lots of painters emulate Renaissance old masters. Few do so to such riveting effect as this young painter. Each of the five oil-on-panel works here is a self-portrait picturing the artist with closely cropped hair against a jet-black background. He is viewed straight on or in three-quarter profile with bare neck and upper shoulders; his high forehead is deeply furrowed, his eyes heavy-lidded. He could be a spiritually anguished, Lutheran monk by Lucas Cranach. Famous Accountants, 1673 Gates Avenue, between St. Nicholas and Cypress Avenues, Bushwick, Brooklyn , (917) 309-3540, famousaccountants.wordpress.com. (Johnson)20110602
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Picasso: Guitars 1912-1914' (Closes on Monday.) Five years after painting his history-altering ''Demoiselles d'Avignon'' and inspired by his friend Georges Braque, Picasso left the figure behind and immersed himself in an alternative reality of still lifes that collapsed space and took him to the brink of abstraction. MoMA's subtly buzzing manifesto of a show -- made up of 70 thematically related paintings, drawings and collages, along with a pair of renowned guitar sculptures -- is a record of that moment, a brief revolution that generated some of the most challenging ideas in Modern art. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20110602
- Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Glenn Ligon: America' (Closes on Sunday.) Sometimes a career survey doubles as a scan of social history. This is true of this Glenn Ligon retrospective, a tight but ample show that refers back to America's slave-holding past and forward to the Obama present, but focuses on the late 1980s and 1990s, a too-seldom-revisited stretch of recent art. Is shared culture -- being American -- in the end a stronger source of communality than race or sexual orientation? That's an important question that Mr. Ligon's beautifully made work asks. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20110602

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'GLENN LIGON: AMERICA': (Closes on Sunday.) Sometimes a career survey doubles as a scan of social history. This is true of this Ligon retrospective, a tight but ample show that refers back to America's slave-holding past and forward to the Obama present, but focuses on the late 1980s and 1990s, a too seldom revisited stretch of recent art. The show's ''Untitled (Speech/Crowd #2),'' above, is a 2000 silk-screen work with ink, glue and coal dust. Is shared culture -- being American -- in the end a stronger source of communality than race or sexual orientation? That's an important question that Mr. Ligon's beautifully made work asks. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Holland Cotter) (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLENN LIGON AND REGEN PROJECTS, LOS ANGELES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); QUILTS & QUILTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); TEXTILES (89%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); FABRICS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (69%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (64%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



86 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: DAVID SHAPIRO: 'Money Is No Object'

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Sue Scott Gallery
1 Rivington Street
Lower East Side
Through June 19
Economically speaking, a year in the life of the artist David Shapiro is almost identical to a year in the life of a good many other striving middle-class New York art-worldings. At least that's the conclusion to be drawn from his minutely detailed, fastidiously executed personal inventory of a solo show. Mr. Shapiro has in the past been a saver (which is not the same thing as a hoarder) of the physical minutiae of daily existence -- food containers and the like -- which he has offered as accumulative installations. 
In ''Money Is No Object'' he takes one step backward on the consumer chain, and a big step forward in the virtuosity stakes: the show consists of every bill and receipt he received during the calendar year of 2010, but all presented in hand-drawn and painted form on 12 long paper scrolls. So, what does his material existence, based mostly in Long Island City, Queens, consist of? Supermarket runs (anchovies, spinach, parsley = $5), movie tickets, parking tickets, Pearl Paint receipts, carbohydrate splurges (one Pain Quotidien brownie at $3.95), a JetBlue flight to Palm Beach, Fla., and back (short vacation), and, of course, monthly telephone charges. I confess, I was heartened to find that his average Verizon bill was identical, almost to the dollar, to mine, which I'd suspected of being uniquely inflated.
Obviously, I spent some time with this show, and I bet you will, too, not just because of the prodigious skills it displays or the sheer patience (or something) it took to create, but because, give or take some particulars, Mr. Shapiro's life is basically my life, and probably yours. Here he is, turning ''average'' -- us -- into art, and there's joy and some nutty comfort in that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); TELEPHONE RATES (65%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (55%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



87 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Groupon Makes Filing To Go Public

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED; Claire Cain Miller and Ben Protess contributed reporting.

 BODY:
9:31 p.m. Updated
As Groupon would say, the deal is on.
The social buying site on Thursday filed to go public, a hotly anticipated debut that could raise $3 billion, according to two people close to the company who were not authorized to speak publicly. At that level, the company would be worth roughly $30 billion, surpassing the value of Google at its initial public offering.
Groupon is part of an elite club of social Internet companies that is fanning investor ardor for the next generation of technology giants. The gaming company Zynga is preparing to file for an offering that could value it at more than $10 billion, according to two people with knowledge of the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly.
Facebook, which recently raised $1.5 billion in a financing led by Goldman Sachs, is expected to file by next year. It's the giant of the group, valued at as much as $80 billion. 
On Thursday, the online music service Pandora moved one step closer to the public markets by setting its I.P.O. price range at $7 to $9, according to its latest filing. Pandora plans to raise as much as $141.6 million in its offering, at a $1.4 billion valuation.
''I think its all about pent-up demand,'' Bing Gordon, a venture capitalist and a director of Zynga, said. ''Markets are often good predictors, and I do think social is just getting started.''
The first wave of new technology stocks has already sparked a frenzy, prompting worry that this boom could be a bubble. Shares of LinkedIn, a company that has struggled to maintain profitability, more than doubled on its first day of trading in May. At Thursday's closing price of $78.63, it was still trading around 75 percent above its offering price.
LinkedIn's stunning debut has pushed Silicon Valley and Wall Street bankers to revise expectations higher on all types of technology offerings. According to one person close to Groupon, the company and its bankers have struggled to pinpoint the final valuation for the I.P.O. The person cautioned that it could move higher or lower based on market conditions.
''I would urge any investor to think about the fundamentals,'' said Sucharita Mulpuru, a Forrester Research retail analyst. ''Sure Groupon could be the next Amazon, but as an investor do you have the patience to wait them out?''
Groupon, based in Chicago, has enjoyed a meteoric rise in its short life.
Shortly after its founding, Groupon notched revenue of $94 million in 2008. Two years later, it swelled to $713 million. The company - which now employs more than 7,000 people and has 83 million subscribers across 43 countries - reported $644.7 million of revenue in the first quarter of 2011 alone.
As its prospects have grown, so has investor interest. In 2010, the company was worth roughly $1.4 billion, based on a fund-raising round led by the Russian firm D.S.T. Global. Groupon spurned a $6 billion takeover bid from Google in December, opting instead to raise nearly $1 billion from Fidelity Investments, T. Rowe Price and other investors.
At a $30 billion market value, Groupon would top that of Google at its market debut. Google raised $1.67 billion in August 2004, putting its value at $27 billion. (In its filing, Groupon put its I.P.O. value at $750 million, a nominal amount used to calculate the registration fee.)
In a letter to prospective shareholders, Groupon's chief executive, Andrew D. Mason, highlighted the company's growth opportunities but cautioned investors to temper their profit expectations.
''In the past, we've made investments in growth that turned a healthy forecasted quarterly profit into a sizable loss,'' he said. ''When we see opportunities to invest in long-term growth, expect that we will pursue them regardless of certain short-term consequences.''
Like many start-ups, Groupon is still struggling to turn a profit. Last year, the company's loss topped $450 million, compared with $6.9 million in 2009 and $2.2 million in 2008. The company's biggest expense is marketing. Groupon spent $263.2 million on advertising and subscriber e-mails in 2010, compared to just $4.5 million the year before.
''We cannot be certain that we will be able to attain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis,'' the company said in its filing.
With less-than-ideal financials under generally accepted accounting principles, Groupon is trumpeting a nonstandard metric that excludes marketing and acquisition costs. On that basis, it reported $60.6 million in operating income last year and $81.6 million in the first quarter this year.
To some, the use of such nonstandard measures harkens back to the days of the technology boom in the late 1990s, when unusual metrics like ''eyeballs'' were touted instead of numbers like net income. Those specialized figures were often used to present a rosier picture of a company's financials, obscuring their profitability.
Groupon argues that its massive marketing budget is both necessary now and will dwindle over time. Locked in a race for subscribers around the world, the company is willing to spend a tremendous amount of money in the short-term to secure a dominant market share. It says it will cost less to maintain those subscribers over time.
As an example, Groupon said in its filing that it spent $18 million to add about 3.7 million subscribers in the second quarter last year. By March 31 of this year, those customers generated $145.3 million in revenue and $61.7 million in gross profit.
Groupon's investors and early employees stand to reap a windfall in an I.P.O.
The company's largest shareholder, its co-founder and board member Eric P. Lefkofsky, owns 64.1 million shares, or roughly 21.6 percent of the company's Class A common stock - a stake that would be worth billions of dollars. The venture capital firm, Accel Partners, which invested in Groupon in November 2009, owns a 5.6 percent stake. Mr. Mason, who made $184,599 last year, controls 7.7 percent of company's Class A shares.
While Class A shares will be sold in the I.P.O., Mr. Mason, Mr. Lefkofsky and Bradley Keywell, a co-founder and director will hold onto all of Groupon's Class B shares. The dual-class stock structure, already in place at Facebook and Google, allows founders to effectively maintain control of their companies while still trading in the public markets.
The rush to go public, at increasingly higher valuations, has fanned concerns that the market is, once again, starting to feel bubbly.
Groupon, which will trade under the ticker ''GRPN,'' has hired Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse as underwriters for the offering.
Claire Cain Miller and Ben Protess contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Groupon employees at its headquarters in Chicago. The company now employs more than 7,000 people and has 83 million subscribers across 43 countries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM BOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROUP BUYING (90%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%)

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); GS (NYSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



88 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: A Mixed Day as Worries Of Weak Economy Persist

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS; David Jolly reported from Paris. Bettina Wassener contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
Weaker than expected sales reports from retailers and another large number of claims for unemployment benefits left stocks with a mixed finish on Thursday, a day after the Dow Jones industrial average posted its biggest decline in nearly a year. 
First-time applications for unemployment benefits, an indication of how many people are losing their jobs, fell slightly last week to 422,000. That was more than economists were expecting and well above the 375,000 level that signals that the economy is adding jobs.
''Companies are just not hiring the same number of workers that they laid off two years ago, and that's leading to a very stale jobs environment,'' said David Loesser, the president of the Estate Planners Group, a financial advisory firm in Washington Crossing, Pa.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 41.59 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 12,248.55.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index recouped much of its losses from earlier in the day and ended down 1.61 points, or 0.1 percent, at 1,312.94. The Nasdaq composite index was up for most of the day and finished with a gain of 4.12, or 0.2 percent, at 2,773.31.
Worries that the economic recovery was stalling caused a stock market rout on Wednesday. The payroll processor ADP said private employers added just 38,000 jobs in May, down from 177,000 in April. That, along with a sharply lower reading on a key manufacturing index, sent the Dow Jones industrial average down 280 points, the steepest fall since June 4 of last year.
A series of strong corporate profit reports gave the S.& P. 500 its best first quarter since 1998, but the index has lost 3.7 percent since April 29 as worries over the economy deepened. The index is still up 4.4 percent for the year.
Several retailers reported muted sales growth for May, adding to concerns that the nation's economy was straining under higher costs for raw materials like oil and cotton. Companies that catered to middle and lower income shoppers said that higher food and gas prices cut into sales. Gap shares fell 4.1 percent after sales fell across all its brands. Target dropped 1.3 percent after missing expectations as sales traffic slowed during the second half of the month.
The luxury retailer Saks was among the few companies in the category that rose. The company's stock gained 1.4 percent after sales surpassed analyst's expectations.
Financial companies fell, though less than the overall stock market. Goldman Sachs dropped 1.3 percent after the firm received a subpoena from the Manhattan district attorney's office to discuss its role in the financial crisis. The subpoena follows the April release of a Senate report that showed Goldman had steered investors toward mortgage securities it knew would likely fail.
Many investors are turning their focus to Friday, when the government's monthly employment report will be released. Economists expect the unemployment rate to fall to 8.9 percent from the current 9.0 percent.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 24/32, to 100 26/32, and the yield rose to 3.03 percent from 2.94 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DISMISSALS (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (65%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (60%); SUBPOENAS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



89 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2252 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.
Karrin Allyson (Friday and Saturday) Ms. Allyson is a jazz singer with an often kittenish comportment but an almost steely sense of self. On her new album, '' 'Round Midnight'' (Concord), she addresses a ballad-heavy program of jazz standards, hitting her mark with husky poise. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 and $40, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen)20110602
Don Byron (Friday through Sunday) Mr. Byron, the conceptually peripatetic clarinetist and tenor saxophonist, works on Friday with a new version of his Ivey-Divey Trio, with the pianist Geri Allen and the drummer Charli Persip. For the rest of the weekend he leads his backbeat-driven New Gospel Quintet, which features the singer D K Dyson. At 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $30; $25 on Sunday. (Chinen)20110602 
Vinicius Cantuaria and Bill Frisell (Monday) These two guitarists share a reverence for secretive lyricism and modest but focused interplay, and on their new album, ''Lagrimas Mexicanas'' (E1), they strike a deeply companionable chord. Mr. Frisell is the wilier soloist of the two, but Mr. Cantuaria, who's originally from Brazil, knows how to cultivate intrigue, whether or not he's singing (as he will be here). Part of the Blue Note Jazz Festival. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea , (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $25 in advance, $30 on day of show. (Chinen)20110602
Stephan Crump's Rosetta Trio (Wednesday) Mr. Crump, a bassist, makes the most of a two-guitar frontline in his Rosetta Trio, with Liberty Ellman on nylon-stringed acoustic and Jamie Fox on electric. The group's recent album, ''Reclamation'' (Sunnyside), is a collection of intimate, engrossing originals likely to crop up again here. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn , (347) 422-0248, barbesbrooklyn.com; $10 suggested donation. (Chinen)20110602
- Adam Cruz and Milestone (Tuesday and Wednesday) With his energetic new debut, ''Milestone'' (Sunnyside), Mr. Cruz advances his cause as a composer-bandleader in the Latin-inflected modern-jazz mainstream, having long ago proven himself as a drummer. This two-night run features most of the personnel from the album, including the tenor saxophonist Chris Potter and the guitarist Steve Cardenas; the alto saxophonists Miguel Zenon (only on Tuesday) and Steve Wilson (only on Wednesday); and the pianist Edward Simon. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $20. (Chinen)20110602
- Honoring Bill Dixon (Friday) Bill Dixon, who died last year at 84, was a composer and trumpeter of imposing singularity and a figure of historical consequence in the postwar jazz avant-garde. This concert, organized by the Festival of New Trumpet Music, features several of his former collaborators, including the cornetist-trumpeters Taylor Ho Bynum, Rob Mazurek and Stephen Haynes, each of whom has created new music for the occasion. At 7 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea , (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org, fontmusic.org; $20; $5, students; $16.20, members. (Chinen)20110602
Dominique Eade (Tuesday) Ms. Eade weighs a chanteuse's coolness against an exploratory jazz instinct, especially in the company of musicians like the guitarist Brad Shepik, who serves as more than a strict accompanist here. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village , (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a $7 minimum. (Chinen)20110602
Eliane Elias Quartet With Marc Johnson (Friday through Sunday) The just released ''Light My Fire'' (Concord Picante) finds the pianist and vocalist Eliane Elias filtering an array of love songs through a breezy bossa nova lens. Her partner, musically as well as romantically, is Mr. Johnson, a bassist of supple erudition. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 to $35 cover, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)20110602
Orrin Evans and the Captain Black Big Band (Monday) On ''Captain Black Big Band'' (Posi-Tone), his fine recent live album, the pianist Orrin Evans drives a high-octane large ensemble with intensity and vigor. He does the same here, showcasing a mixed lineup of hardy improvisers from Philadelphia and New York. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $20 cover, or $10 for students, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)20110602
- Jim Hall and Ron Carter (Monday) Mr. Hall, the venerable jazz guitarist, and Mr. Carter, an equally distinguished bassist, revisit the premise of their album ''Alone Together'' (Milestone) from 1972: a study in effortless economy and subtlety, as Mr. Hall finds myriad opportunities to practice his brand of humble virtuosity and Mr. Carter takes quietly adventurous harmonic flights. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $45 cover at tables, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20110602
Roy Hargrove Quintet (Friday through Sunday) Roy Hargrove, an often dazzling trumpeter with a knack for pithy soul, leads a sharp-featured yet flexible postbop band with the saxophonist Justin Robinson, the pianist Sullivan Fortner, the bassist Ameen Saleem and the drummer Montez Coleman. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20110602
- Billy Hart Quartet (Tuesday through Thursday) The drummer Billy Hart, who is 70, reconvenes an excellent band with several prominent younger players: the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner, the pianist Ethan Iverson and the bassist Ben Street. Bebop is the group's lingua franca, though the word refers here to an aesthetic practice rather than a historical style. (Through June 12.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, and a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20110602
Hiromi: the Trio Project (Tuesday through Thursday) The extravagantly dynamic pianist Hiromi Uehara has a new album, ''Voice'' (Telarc), that spotlights her fleet rapport with the same experienced partners found here: the bassist Anthony Jackson and the drummer Simon Phillips. (Through June 12.) Part of the Blue Note Jazz Festival. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 cover at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20110602
Jazz Guitar 2011 (Monday) Featuring a succession of guitarist-led groups, this Blue Note Jazz Festival program will cover a range of styles and approaches. First up, at 7:30 p.m., is Nir Felder, a young postbop whiz; the smartly rustic Marvin Sewell follows at 8:30. Third in the rotation, at 9:30, is Liberty Ellman, who favors a light but intricate attack; closing it all out at 10:30 is David Fiuczynski, whose jazz-rock ideal involves a brash, extravagant technique. Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side , (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $15. (Chinen)20110602
Willie Jones III Quintet (Friday and Saturday) Willie Jones III is a conscientious hard-bop drummer with a new album, ''The Next Phase'' (WJ3), that features, among others, Eric Reed on piano and Greg Tandy on tenor saxophone. Here he leads a streamlined quintet. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street , (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; $35 cover, with a variable minimum. (Chinen)20110602
- Lee Konitz, Bill Frisell, Gary Peacock, Joey Baron (Friday through Sunday) The late-career Lee Konitz renaissance rolls on with another highly promising booking, this one framing Mr. Konitz's alto saxophone inventions against the attentive stir of a dream-team rhythm section: Mr. Frisell on guitar, Mr. Peacock on bass and Mr. Baron on drums. Part of the Blue Note Jazz Festival. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 cover at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20110602
- Lost Jazz Shrines: Arts & Crafts and Candi (Friday) The final of three installments in the Lost Jazz Shrines series, this concert pays homage to the stretch of 52nd Street that had its jazz heyday around midcentury. At 7 p.m. there will be a free screening of the film ''Candido: Hands of Fire''; at 8:30 the film's subject, the great conguero Candido Camero, will appear alongside the drummer Matt Wilson, the trumpeter Terell Stafford, the pianist Gary Versace and the bassist Martin Wind. TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street , (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org; $25; students, $15. (Chinen)20110602
Joe Lovano Nonet (Tuesday through Thursday) Joe Lovano, a tenor saxophonist with broad experience in large ensembles, has led this bop-flavored nonet intermittently for a number of years. His most recent album with the group, ''Streams of Expression'' (Blue Note), smartly featured the orchestrations of Gunther Schuller, a specialist in ensembles of this flavor. (Through June 12.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 and $35 cover, $15 for students at select sets, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. Sold out on Thursday. (Chinen)20110602
Miles Okazaki (Friday and Saturday) Mr. Okazaki, an exceedingly skilled guitarist with a head for rhythmic convolution, presents new music developed while in residence at the Jazz Gallery, no doubt with these specific partners in mind: Miguel Zenon on alto saxophone, Thomas Morgan on bass and Dan Weiss on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20; $10 members. (Chinen)20110602
- Wadada Leo Smith Golden Quartet (Sunday) This aggressive but often lyrical working band, led by the trumpeter Wadada Leo Smith, presents the premiere of ''Ten Freedom Summers'' -- a three-part suite inspired by the civil rights movement, which Mr. Smith, born in Mississippi in 1941, experienced firsthand. The group, with Angelica Sanchez on piano, John Lindberg on bass and Pheeroan akLaff on drums, performs under the auspices of the Festival of New Trumpet Music and with support from Chamber Music America. At 7:30 p.m. Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street, near Thompson Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 505-3474, lepoissonrouge.com; $22 day of show, $18 in advance, $15 for students. (Chinen)20110602
McCoy Tyner Trio With Gary Bartz and Bill Frisell (Tuesday) The rumble of McCoy Tyner's pianism has quieted a bit over the years, but he can still be a compelling stylist, at home in the driver's seat. He enlists two guests for this one-nighter, part of the Blue Note Jazz Festival: Mr. Bartz, an incisively soulful saxophonist and semiregular partner, and Mr. Frisell, an endlessly imaginative guitarist. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea , (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $35 cover, with a $10 minimum per person at tables. (Chinen)20110602
- Vision Festival (Sunday through Thursday) This sprawling avant-garde festival enlists dozens of improvising artists, in working groups and novel configurations. Its centerpiece event, on Wednesday, features the German free-jazz saxophonist Peter Brotzmann in three different instrumental settings. Other highlights include a Sunday-night tribute to Marion Brown and Billy Bang, featuring D. D. Jackson on piano and Hamiet Bluiett on baritone saxophone; a Tuesday-night brass showcase presented in concert with the Festival of New Trumpet Music; and a group spearheaded by the saxophonist Kidd Jordan, with Mr. Bluiett and others, on Thursday night. From 6 p.m. Sunday and from 7 p.m. on the other nights; see visionfestival.org for a full schedule. (Through June 11.) Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side , (212) 598-0400; $30 per day, $20 for students, or $140 for festival pass. (Chinen)20110602
Erica von Kleist and No Exceptions (Thursday) The name of the band may or may not allude to lingering prejudices about female horn players: Ms. von Kleist has proved her salt, in any case, as a saxophonist and flutist with some prominent big bands. Celebrating the release of her second album, she showcases her lyrically assertive style in a group that includes, among others, Nadje Noordhuis on trumpet and Chris Dingman on vibraphone. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $15, $10 for members in the first set; $10, $5 for members in the second set. (Chinen)20110602
Warren Wolf Quartet (Thursday) An assertive young vibraphonist with an abundance of technique, Warren Wolf chases a brisk postbop ideal with a band consisting of Lawrence Fields on piano, Kris Funn on bass and John Lamkin on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $20. (Chinen)20110602

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ADAM CRUZ AND MILESTONE: (Tuesday and Wednesday) With his energetic new debut, ''Milestone'' (Sunnyside), Mr. Cruz, right, advances his cause as a composer-bandleader in the Latin-inflected modern-jazz mainstream, having long ago proved himself as a drummer. This two-night run features most of the personnel from the album, including the tenor saxophonist Chris Potter and the guitarist Steve Cardenas
the alto saxophonists Miguel Zenon (only on Tuesday) and Steve Wilson (only on Wednesday)
and the pianist Edward Simon. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net
 $20. (Nate Chinen) (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (92%); MUSIC (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); RECORD RELEASES (79%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (74%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (74%); FESTIVALS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



90 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Stumbles as I.P.O. Leader, but Looks to Regain Its Footing

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG - Is Hong Kong, the global leader for initial public offerings in 2009 and 2010, in danger of losing its coveted title this year?
The stock market here has had an underwhelming start to 2011 compared with its Western rivals. By the end of May, there were 21 I.P.O.'s in Hong Kong, raising a total of $8.8 billion. New York notched 43 transactions and $23.8 billion, according to data compiled by Thomson Reuters.
Although a flurry of debuts over the next few weeks, including those from Samsonite and Prada, are expected to raise billions of dollars, Hong Kong will find it tough to hold on to the top spot given the strong showing in the United States. 
The Nasdaq and New York Stock Exchange are benefiting from a boom in social media companies that are going public, like LinkedIn and Yandex. On Thursday, Groupon filed for its highly anticipated offering, which could value the company at nearly $30 billion.
Still, the sudden burst of activity in Hong Kong shows that recent worries over China's economic slowdown and the relatively poor performance of many regional stock exchanges is fading. Instead investors are focusing on the prospects of companies that are heavily exposed to fast-growing Asia.
''There is still a lot of cash around,'' said Kester Ng, head of equity capital and derivatives markets at J.P. Morgan for the Asia-Pacific region. ''The risk appetite right now is not as pronounced as it was late last year, and issuers currently may not be able to get the valuations they would like. But if you have the right kind of asset in the right sector, you can definitely get deals away.''
Resource companies and luxury goods, he added, are likely to continue to do well, as investors look to capitalize on Asia's ravenous demand for commodities and the rising affluence in the region. Huaneng Renewables, a Chinese wind power company, is planning to announce on June 9 its pricing for a $1 billion listing. Shares in MGM China, whose main asset is a giant hotel and casino in the booming gambling hub of Macao, is set to begin trading on the Hong Kong exchange on Friday. The offering raised $1.5 billion.
The strong economy is also a big reason why overseas companies are looking to Hong Kong for their market debuts.
Samsonite, which is owned by the British private equity group CVC Capital Partners, announced plans on Thursday for a Hong Kong listing that could raise as much as 11.75 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $1.5 billion, with a trading start planned for June 16.
''We want to orient the company to where the world's center of gravity is going to be in future,'' which means China and Hong Kong, Tim Parker, chief executive of Samsonite, said at a video news conference.
On Monday, Prada, the Italian fashion house, is due to start marketing a June 24 listing that could net $2 billion, according to a person with knowledge of the plans who spoke anonymously because the details had not been made public. Resourcehouse, a mining company owned by the Australian billionaire Clive Palmer, is expected to price its $3.6 billion Hong Kong offering on Friday.
''Some of these companies make 30 to 40 percent of their revenues or profits in China - their fastest growth is coming from here,'' said Justin Haik, a managing director of Morgan Stanley's global capital markets group in Hong Kong. ''It is natural for such companies to list here. It gets them added visibility. And it aligns their interests with their long-term aspirations of doing business in Asia.''
Tighter credit conditions in much of Asia have provided an incentive for companies to seek alternative sources of financing, like I.P.O.'s, said Emil Wolter, head of regional strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland in Singapore.
Reflecting this, many market aspirants are mainland Chinese companies. China Everbright, a Shanghai-based lender, announced plans for a listing that could raise $6 billion to $7 billion, Reuters reported this week. Haitong Securities, a brokerage firm, could raise more than $1.5 billion, according to Bloomberg News.
The attraction to list here is understandable. Much of Asia is growing rapidly, and many of its economies escaped the pain wrought by the global financial crisis. Its financial markets have grown more sophisticated. And investors in the region and elsewhere have ample cash they want to put to work in Asia.
All of this has helped Asian exchanges capture a rising share of stock market activity in recent years, with Hong Kong the standout beneficiary in terms of attracting new listings.
Two blockbuster listings in 2010 - the Agricultural Bank of China and American International Assurance, the Asian life insurance unit of American International Group - helped Hong Kong raise nearly $53 billion in I.P.O.'s by the end of December. That accounted for 19.5 percent of the global total and easily topped the $34.5 billion raised in New York, according to Thomson Reuters data.
''When it comes to supply and demand, a lot of people are looking to participate in the Asian story,'' said Mr. Haik of Morgan Stanley. ''We've seen wealth growing across the region, and an institutional investor base - asset management firms and sovereign wealth funds - that is increasingly looking to put money into equities.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Prada travel bag. The fashion house is expected to make its market debut in Hong Kong. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Tim Parker, chief executive of Samsonite, at an investor presentation in Hong Kong on Monday. Samsonite's stock market listing in Hong Kong could raise $1.5 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROM FAVRE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Raising Capital: The Hong Kong stock exchange, which last year accounted for nearly one-fifth of initial public offerings by value, raising $52.7 billion, is lagging behind the New York Stock Exchange and the London Stock Exchange so far in 2011. (Source: Thomson Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (66%); WIND ENERGY (61%)

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (56%); YANDEX NV (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); CVC CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (54%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%); YNDX (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (92%); MACAO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



91 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: In District, Puzzled by Weiner's Uncertainty on Photo

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and TIM STELLOH

 BODY:
Eran Ribak just does not understand how Representative Anthony D. Weiner could not recognize whether the man in the gray boxer briefs was him or not.
''I know every photo I have on my computer, and he should know every photo he has on his computer,'' said Mr. Ribak, 34, who owns a produce market in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, in Mr. Weiner's Congressional district. ''I make sure I don't upload to my computer any photos I think are indecent, because anyone could log on and send them out.
''As a congressman, he should know better.'' 
Mr. Ribak waved his cellphone to show off a picture of his 2-year-old son, Josh.
''I know exactly when it was taken,'' he said, as if to prove his point. ''Last year at the park.''
Last weekend, a suggestive photo was sent from Mr. Weiner's Twitter account to a 21-year-old college student in Seattle. Though Mr. Weiner quickly took the picture down, saying his account had been hacked, the picture was spotted and publicized by a conservative blogger, attracting national attention, and, after days of confusing statements, Mr. Weiner told MSNBC on Wednesday that while he had not sent out the message containing the photo, he could not ''say with certitude'' that the picture was not of him.
On Thursday, Mr. Weiner, a Democrat, said he had finished answering questions about the issue and intended to return to focusing on his Congressional work.
The events have captured the attention of the news media and the political world for the past six days. And in Mr. Weiner's district, which stretches across portions of Brooklyn and Queens, his constituents said they were exasperated, confused and more than a little amused. In a series of interviews around the district on Thursday, one sentiment was expressed more than any other: residents were skeptical that their congressman could not recognize a pair of gray boxer briefs.
''I would think everybody knows their undergarments,'' said Cori Attias, 46, of Mill Basin, Brooklyn, who said she would be able to recognize a picture of herself based on the underwear alone. ''It would be weird if he didn't know. It's either, 'Yes those are my boxer briefs,' or 'No, they're not.' ''
Ana Gonzalez, 63, a vocational rehabilitation counselor in Brooklyn who voted for Mr. Weiner, said she was willing to give him the benefit of the doubt.
''How often has he had pictures of himself in his underwear taken, or in a bathing suit, or some nonsense like that?'' she asked, as she stood waiting for the bus. ''He doesn't know.''
Ms. Gonzalez said she could not imagine Mr. Weiner's taking such a photo -- ''He's very politically savvy, he wouldn't do this'' -- but she added that even if he had, Congress had more pressing issues.
''Why not focus on the real stuff -- joblessness, the economy, hunger, not whether he sent a Twitter or not,'' she said.
At the Cross Bay Diner in Howard Beach, Queens, supporters and nonsupporters alike seemed baffled by the congressman's handling of the episode, which included a pair of press conferences on Tuesday in which Mr. Weiner refused to answer questions about the photo.
''For a guy who's never had a shortage of words, he certainly does now,'' said Jim LaMarca, 69, who lives in Mr. Weiner's district, in Brooklyn. He said he was a registered Independent and not a supporter of Mr. Weiner. ''If he would just come out and said, 'Yeah, it's me; I don't know how it got there; I'm sorry,' it would have been over. Instead, he's given people a lot of logs to throw on the fire.''
JoAnne Rosina, 60, a retired librarian, and her mother-in-law, Marge Rosina, said they were supporters of Mr. Weiner. As they finished up lunch at the diner, JoAnne Rosina offered her own theory about where the image might have come from.
''I think maybe it's an old photo that resurfaced,'' she said, noting that unflattering photos of politicians often become public after they have been elected.
''But why did he put it on YouTube!'' her mother-in-law shouted. (In fact, the photo was only sent out over Twitter, and Mr. Weiner says his account was hacked.)
The mere existence of the picture -- which, according to Mr. Weiner himself, may or may not be of him -- has raised questions among some.
''It makes me think, why would he want to take a photo of himself in his underwear, for what purpose?'' asked Arlene Gilden, 78, who was shopping in a produce market in Sheepshead Bay. ''It's a little silly. If he did do it, which I don't think he did, his credibility has cracked. If it's something he has time to do, it's a little sick.''
A few feet away, Joyce Vento stood inspecting produce, and in the course of a five-minute conversation, vacillated between skepticism -- ''He doesn't know what he looks like?'' she asked, incredulously -- and understanding. Offering up a sympathetic theory, she suggested that perhaps Mr. Weiner had taken the picture ''to impress his wife.''
But then, pausing to consider Huma Abedin, Mr. Weiner's wife who is an aide to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, Ms. Vento decided she might not be impressed after all. ''She's a smart, beautiful woman,'' she explained.
Morris Mosseri, 36, who works for a security company and lives in the Marine Park section of Brooklyn, said he was confident the photo was of Mr. Weiner.
''There must be such a picture of him out there, otherwise he'd say, 'It's not a picture of me,' '' Mr. Mosseri said. ''After Brett Favre, I thought nobody could be that dumb.''
But, he added, he doubted the photo would hurt the political career of Mr. Weiner, who has expressed interest in running for mayor of New York in 2013.
''This is America,'' Mr. Mosseri said. ''People forgive and forget.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, part of Representative Anthony D. Weiner's district, some residents were exasperated by the fuss over the photo sent from his Twitter account, but most wondered why their congressman could not recognize a pair of underwear.
 Eran Ribak, a market owner in Sheepshead Bay, said Mr. Weiner ''should know every photo he has on his computer.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ANTHONY WEINER SCANDAL (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); LINGERIE (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



92 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Dip Lower, But Show Less Momentum

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Jobless claims fell by 6,000, to 422,000, in the week ended May 28, exceeding the 417,000 median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, according to Labor Department figures released on Thursday. 
The tepid fall in jobless claims signals companies may also be looking to limit hiring, raising the expectation that employment data due Friday will show that payroll gains moderated in May. Slowing job growth may cause households to further curb spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the American economy.
''The job market has clearly lost momentum,'' said John Herrmann, a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets in Boston. ''Jobless claims remain elevated, and payrolls growth for May could come in at a level that's worrisome. The gains in confidence may be short-lived. From here on, confidence surveys may begin to reflect the broader sense of uncertainty in the economy, the labor market and the stock market.''
Stocks fell on concern the economic recovery was slowing. The forecast for jobless claims was based on a survey of 50 economists. Estimates ranged from 400,000 to 440,000. The Labor Department revised the previous week's figure to 428,000 from the 424,000 initially reported.
Among the economists surveyed by Bloomberg, the median forecast was that payrolls grew by 170,000 workers in May. Payrolls increased by 244,000 in April.
A report released Wednesday from ADP Employer Services showed companies added 38,000 workers last month, the fewest since September and less than the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
''The labor market is a little less robust than it was,'' said Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase in New York. ''This is the eighth consecutive week of claims above 400,000, so it doesn't look like the move up was an aberration.''
Robert Brusca, president of Fact & Opinion Economics in New York, said, ''There is nothing in this weekly survey that gives us any confidence things are getting better. There is really not much improvement in the economy.''
Other reports from Thursday showed worker productivity slowed in the first quarter and orders to factories dropped in April.
The measure of employee output per hour increased at a revised 1.8 percent annual rate after a 2.9 percent gain in the prior three months, the Labor Department said. Labor costs climbed at a 0.7 percent rate after dropping 2.8 percent the prior quarter.
Demand for manufactured goods dropped 1.2 percent in April, the most since May 2010, after climbing 3.8 percent the prior month, figures from the Commerce Department showed.
Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to rise as job growth -- measured by the monthly nonfarm payrolls report -- decelerates.
Lower gasoline prices may be giving households some relief. The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline nationally dropped to $3.79 on May 29, down from $3.84 a week earlier, according to AAA, the nation's largest auto club. It reached $3.99 on May 4, the highest since July 2008.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (65%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (65%); JPM (LSE) (65%); 8634 (TSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (83%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



93 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: A Siren Song on Casinos, With Emanuel in Tune

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Eschewing Nobel Prize economists, I left analysis of the legislature's approval of a kudzu-like growth of casino gambling to an actor-comedian who loves Chicago and works Las Vegas.
''Al Capone actually just went to God and said, 'This isn't right. If these guys can do this, somebody owes me an apology,' '' said the entertainer Larry Miller.
The smell of desperation on slot machines permeates our political class. Legislators are hamstrung by a Gordian knot of deficits, fear of raising taxes and spinelessness in making cuts. Many are as concerned about rigging the redrawing of legislative district lines to preserve their jobs as they are about confronting pension and workers' compensation debacles. 
In ''The Plan,'' a smart 2006 book of ''big ideas for America,'' the co-authors, Rahm Emanuel and Bruce Reed, wrote: ''The nation is at war, the government is broke, Washington is on the take -- and yet the deeper the pile of problems, the shallower the political system's response.''
The nation is still at war, the government broke; Springfield is arguably beholden to special interests, and the system's response is as shallow as the children's end of a Park District pool.
For sure, Mr. Emanuel pulled off a bravura performance in Springfield as a neophyte mayor. Persistence, persuasion and a military sniper's focus were marshaled by a man who coolly dissects governing bodies the way Wayne Gretzky surveyed the defense up ice.
Mr. Emanuel got votes on critical measures and, in unceasing campaign mode, each time issued instant praise for his allies. Jerry Roper, president of the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce and a casino partisan (''if done correctly''), said he was especially impressed with how Mr. Emanuel dealt with doubtful downstate Democrats on gambling expansion.
History will assess the impact of playing a (Donald) Trump-like card on gambling and if we'll go beyond proving it's easier to get the poor to fork over money for declining services than to involve the affluent in creating great services for their tax dollars.
Even some Emanuel supporters have qualms; they include Mike Quigley, who succeeded Mr. Emanuel as a North Side congressman, and Bridget Gainer, a Cook County commissioner and pragmatic liberal Democrat.
''I don't believe in a nanny state,'' Mr. Quigley said. ''But having casinos wherever you turn, and slots, has dramatically diminishing returns. Being dependent on them to turn around an economy is a fool's game. It would help Chicago but have diminishing returns.''
Ms. Gainer had a similar view. ''It's a desperate attempt to solve big long-term, generational problems overnight,'' she said. ''Casinos are not a solution to pension and structural budget deficits and the workmen's comp problem.''
Mike Kelley, former editor of The Las Vegas Sun and Chicago's Daily Southtown, said, ''I don't believe in funding public services with gambling revenues.'' But it's legal in all but a few states, he added, ''and people will gamble, so you might as well let them do it in your city than go elsewhere.''
That's the heart of the Emanuel rationale: They do it in Hammond and Elgin and elsewhere, with my constituents as patrons. Whom are we kidding?
As for revenue, Mr. Kelley does recall the bait-and-switch on the Illinois Lottery, which was sold as a way to sharply enhance education but then used just to replace money moved elsewhere. Let's see where the gambling lucre goes after the city casino's huge start-up costs.
If situated downtown, the casino will probably be a few blocks from First United Methodist Church at the Chicago Temple, where the Rev. Phil Blackwell expects more business, too.
''There are not enough gamblers to go around, so to create additional revenues, the city has to create more losers,'' Mr. Blackwell said. ''It's not just a matter of keeping city gamblers from going to Indiana. You need more gamblers. And the more losers, the better.''
Mr. Blackwell is steeped in academic literature on casinos, including seemingly worrisome cost-benefit analyses, claims of increasing crime and declining property values in the immediate area, and the addictive essence of video gambling.
He assumes a rise in those touched by casino-driven foreclosures, crime, homelessness, drug abuse and divorce. On a broader level, he says, gambling raises the issue of ''what constitutes a livable and positive common experience as a community.''
But then there are the airports, lucky them. Incentives for on-time departures at O'Hare and Midway just went down. Plane to Cincinnati two hours late? Big deal. Put away the iPad and head to the slots.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CASINOS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); COUNTIES (70%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (69%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (54%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



94 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
CALLS AGAINST CORRUPTION
RESOUND IN NEW DELHI
India's anticorruption agitators are on a hot streak. Government ministers are asking one of India's gurus to call off a yoga rally against corruption and a mass hunger strike. Already, the government has capitulated to the demands of another hunger-striking anticorruption crusader. Page A4
REPRIEVE FOR JAPAN PREMIER 
Prime Minister Naoto Kan survived a bruising no-confidence vote in Parliament, but only after promising to resign once his government made progress in overcoming the nuclear crisis. Page A4
MORE STRAUSS-KAHN FALLOUT
Nine years ago, Anne Mansouret dissuaded her daughter from filing a legal complaint for attempted rape against Dominique Strauss-Kahn. Now she is speaking out about what happened and some Socialists have called for her expulsion from the party. Page A5
SYRIA ATTACKS PROTESTERS
Syria's military forces continued pressing to crush a three-month-old popular uprising even as Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton warned President Bashar al-Assad that his legitimacy had ''nearly run out.'' Page A7
IRAQ ARRESTS ACTIVISTS
Iraqi security forces arrested more than a dozen activists over the past week in a sweep that rights groups called a pre-emptive strike to prevent a flickering reform movement from reviving. Page A8
National
COUPLE SENTENCED TO PRISON
IN 18-YEAR KIDNAPPING CASE
The couple who kidnapped Jaycee Lee Dugard in 1991 and held her captive for nearly two decades were sentenced to prison after listening to angry and emotionally wrought statements from the victim and her family. Page A10
A SHIFT IN RURAL LEGISLATION
As capitals across the country tackle the redrawing of state legislative districts, one sure loser will be rural representation. A case in point is the essentially rural state of Nebraska, where more than half the population is clustered in the three counties that contain the states three largest cities. Page A10
New York
TO CUT DOWN ON LITTER,
TRY LOSING THE TRASH CANS
New Yorkers angry about trash on their sidewalks tend to propose more litter baskets at more corners, more frequent collection, harsher fines for violators. But in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, the neighborhood has come up an odd tactic: getting rid of the litter baskets. Page A15
Obituaries
HANS KEILSON, 101
He was a German-born psychoanalyst who won literary fame at the very end of his life when two of his long-forgotten works of fiction, set in Nazi-occupied Europe, were republished to great acclaim. Page B9
Business
EUROPEAN BANK PRESIDENT
PUSHES TO PREVENT CRISES
Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, stepped up pressure on European leaders to do more to prevent financial crises, suggesting the creation of a central finance ministry to oversee spending by countries that use the euro. Page B1
APPLE CLOUD DEAL IS NEAR
Apple has nearly completed its negotiations with the major music publishers over rights for a new cloud music service. Of the four big publishers, two have signed deals with Apple, and the others will likely complete theirs soon, according to people involved. Page B2
FOOD PYRAMID RETIRED
Michelle Obama has relegated the government's well-known food pyramid to the sands of history, unveiling MyPlate, a new, simpler image of a plate divided into four sections: fruit, vegetables, grains and protein. A smaller circle sits beside it for dairy. Page B3
Weekend
SORTING THE ABUNDANCE
OF EARLY SUMMER JAZZ
Three festivals are bringing jazz to New York this month, but it's a different landscape from the usual one. There will be fewer big-theater shows built around a person or a theme. Ben Ratliff and Nate Chinen sort through the differences in a transcript from Mr. Ratliff's podcast. Page C1
Sports
MARION'S SHOT ISN'T PRETTY,
BUT IT'S PRETTY SUCCESSFUL
Shawn Marion has come through for the Dallas Mavericks despite a jump shot that prompted one former N.B.A. player to say, ''I cringe.'' As the Mavericks battle the Miami Heat for the N.B.A. title, the hitches and hiccups in Marion's supremely unconventional shot have become amplified. But the results have always been much more pleasant than the delivery. Page B11
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A19
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (88%); PRISONS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CONTUSIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); SENTENCING (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (87%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); NAOTO KAN (56%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (52%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) INDIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); SYRIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



95 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Gates Discusses Bolstering Asian Security

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
SINGAPORE -- Faced with a future of significantly reduced military spending, the United States should pursue a program of ''cost effective'' cooperation with Asian allies to defend regional security and enhance American interests, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Thursday. 
Mr. Gates, who arrived in Singapore on Thursday for an address at an Asian security conference, underscored the vast scope of challenges to regional stability, like natural disasters and an ascendant China.
''We are not trying to hold China down,'' he said in an interview with reporters aboard his official Air Force jet. ''China is a global power and it will be a global power. The question is how we work through this in a way that assures we have positive relations.''
With its allies in Asia, he said, the United States needs to find ways to serve as the ''indispensable nation,'' a catalyst for expanding bilateral ties and multilateral cooperation.
The Pentagon is under orders from President Obama to cut hundreds of millions of dollars from its budget over the coming years, forcing the government to decide exactly what it no longer wants the military to do.
Mr. Gates said that many of the Defense Department's operations in Asia -- training exercises and the rotations of naval and air units among them -- can be carried out within budget constraints.
''I think these are all cost-effective ways of enhancing our influence,'' he said, as well as proving that the United States remains a reliable regional partner.
China's global economic clout and regional military operations will be on the agenda as defense ministers gather in Singapore, and Mr. Gates noted the balance sought by the United States between its obligations to defend Taiwan from aggression and its desire for cordial ties with China. Beijing considers the island a renegade province, while United States policy supports a peaceful resolution.
Mr. Gates, the only defense secretary to be kept on by a successor administration, said that Presidents Obama and George W. Bush both ''tried to thread the needle pretty carefully in terms of Taiwan's defensive capabilities -- but at the same time being aware of China's sensitivities.''
Mr. Gates said military-to-military ties between the United States and China have not kept pace with economic and political developments between the nations, and he noted Beijing's decisions to increase the size and lethality of its armed forces -- and in ways designed to counter American military advantages.
Among them are Chinese programs to develop and deploy antiship missiles, antisatellite weapons and stealth fighter aircraft.
''I think the Chinese have learned a powerful lesson from the Soviet experience, and they do not intend to try and compete with us across the full range of military capabilities,'' Mr. Gates said. ''But I think they are intending to build capabilities that give them considerable freedom of action in Asia and the opportunity to extend their influence.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%); SINGAPORE (94%); ASIA (94%); TAIWAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



96 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Moody's Warns Of Downgrade For U.S. Credit

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Moody's Investors Service warned Thursday that it might downgrade the United States government's sterling credit rating if Congress did not increase the nation's debt limit ''in coming weeks,'' putting a spur to the sputtering talks between party leaders and the White House on a plan to restore fiscal stability.
The warning, from one of the agencies whose assessments of creditworthiness help determine interest rates, amounted to a stern reminder from Wall Street to Washington that global financial markets are watching the budget battle closely and that a standoff or brinkmanship could have economic consequences. 
Both sides seized on Moody's statement to reinforce their bargaining positions, with Republicans demanding that President Obama get more serious about deep spending cuts and Democrats saying that Republicans are risking a financial crisis in pursuit of an ideological agenda.
Moody's said a review of the credit rating was ''likely'' in July, given that ''the risk of continuing stalemate has grown.'' Its warning followed a similar one from another major ratings firm six weeks ago, and it came as the administration met Thursday with both House Republicans and Democrats in search of a deal.
The treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, met on Capitol Hill with House freshmen, including Republicans who have suggested that they see little or no risk in a showdown over the debt limit. Citing the Moody's statement, Mr. Geithner urged them to support raising it or risk an economic crisis.
''We didn't create this mess,'' one Republican told Mr. Geithner, according to a person in the room.
Independent analyses have shown that more than half of the $14.3 trillion debt is from policies enacted during the past decade when Republicans controlled both the White House and Congress, and much of the rest from lost revenues and stimulus spending and tax cuts since Mr. Obama took office at the height of the financial crisis and recession.
Mr. Geithner, as he left the Capitol, told reporters: ''I'm confident two things are going to happen this summer. One is we are going to avoid a default crisis. And we are going to reach agreement on a long-term fiscal plan.''
Representative Austin Scott, the Georgia Republican who is the leader of the freshman class, said after the meeting that House Republicans had a ''fundamental'' difference with Democrats on taxes: instead of new tax revenues, the Republicans want additional tax cuts to increase economic growth. Still, he said, ''I think we are all hopeful we will get to a resolution.''
Earlier, Mr. Obama and Mr. Geithner met privately with House Democrats at the White House about debt-reduction matters, following a similar session on Wednesday with House Republicans.
''Just as he discussed with the Republican caucus, the president highlighted the need for both parties to work together to take a balanced approach to deficit reduction, one that allows us to live within our means without hurting our ability to invest in the future or burdening our middle class or seniors,'' an administration official said.
House Democrats said they would support Mr. Obama if he reached a compromise with Republicans that included long-term spending cuts, but not to Medicare benefits, as well as higher tax revenues, according to those briefed on the meeting.
The House speaker, John A. Boehner, said in a statement, ''The White House needs to get serious right now about dealing with our deficit and debt.'' He interpreted the Moody's report as bolstering his contention that ''a credible agreement means the spending cuts must exceed the debt-limit increase.''
Moody's, however, made no mention of how a deficit-reduction deal should be structured.
The Moody's report was unexpected. In April, Standard & Poor's lowered its outlook for the AAA rating on United States debt -- but not the rating itself -- to negative from stable. Moody's cautionary note was more pointed in that it was pegged to the current political maneuvering over the debt limit and it urged a resolution weeks sooner than the White House and Congressional leaders were aiming for.
Its warning was two-pronged. First, Moody's said, if Congress does not increase the Treasury's borrowing authority in coming weeks, the nation's credit rating may be lowered ''due to the very small but rising risk of a short-lived default.'' That is likely to translate into higher interest rates at a time when the recovery shows signs of slowing again.
And second, Moody's said, with an implicit slap at both parties, that whether the United States keeps its triple-A rating ''will depend on the outcome of negotiations on deficit reduction.''
''Although Moody's fully expected political wrangling prior to an increase in the statutory debt limit, the degree of entrenchment into conflicting positions has exceeded expectations,'' the company's statement said. ''The heightened polarization over the debt limit has increased the odds of a short-lived default.''
The goal of the bipartisan budget talks that Mr. Obama initiated in April, led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., has been to reach agreement on deep long-term spending cuts by Aug. 2. That is when the Treasury Department has said it will run out of accounting maneuvers to meet the nation's financial obligations without breaching the $14.3 trillion debt limit, which would provoke a crisis, even default.
House Republicans have said they will not agree to an increase without parallel action on spending cuts of an even greater amount. The debt limit would have to be raised $2.4 trillion to carry the government through 2012.
Republican leaders engineered a vote on Tuesday evening in which the House voted overwhelmingly not to increase the debt limit. They said that was their way of proving to Democrats that a rise in the debt limit could not pass without spending cuts attached. The Democrats countered that Republicans were risking an adverse market reaction by staging the vote, knowing it would fail.
Stock markets did fall more than 2 percent on Wednesday, but analysts generally attributed the slump to the day's disheartening economic reports and anticipation that the government's monthly jobs report on Friday would also be disappointing.
Even so, Republican Congressional leaders fretted that they could be blamed, according to Republican lobbyists who spoke with them. With Mr. Biden traveling in Italy this week, the negotiators are not scheduled to meet again until next Thursday. However, staff advisers continue working on proposals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX INCENTIVES (85%); TAX RELIEF (85%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); POLITICS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); AUSTIN SCOTT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



97 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Romney, Opening Race, Presents Himself as the Candidate to Face Obama

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
STRATHAM, N.H. -- Formally offering himself as a candidate for the presidency for a second time, Mitt Romney sought Thursday to look past the primary challenges of the next 12 months, portraying the choice for voters as one between himself and President Obama.
In a 25-minute speech at the windswept Bittersweet Farm in New Hampshire, Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, made no mention of his potential Republican rivals, focusing instead on what he called Mr. Obama's failed economic policies. He blamed the president for high unemployment, rising gasoline prices, falling home values and a soaring national debt. 
''Barack Obama has failed America,'' Mr. Romney declared. ''In the campaign to come, the American ideals of economic freedom and opportunity need a clear and unapologetic defense, and I intend to make it -- because I have lived it.''
By Republican tradition, it should be Mr. Romney's turn as the nominee. The party has a long history of picking a politician who has paid his dues on the campaign trail -- losing, learning lessons and then running again. Mr. Romney's speech on Thursday sounded like one he might eventually give at the party's national convention next year.
With 17 months to go, Mr. Romney has emerged as the front-runner for the nomination after reassembling a powerful fund-raising apparatus and an extensive campaign operation.
But Mr. Romney's potential Republican challengers have no intention of letting him anoint himself the party's nominee. That fact that was made starkly clear on Thursday by sharp-edged comments from Sarah Palin and Rudolph W. Giuliani -- both of whom are still mulling presidential runs -- even as Mr. Romney was making his candidacy official.
Ms. Palin, the former governor of Alaska, criticized Mr. Romney's Massachusetts health care plan as her One Nation bus tour headed toward the coastal town of Portsmouth, N.H., for a clambake on Thursday evening.
''In my opinion, any mandate coming from government is not a good thing,'' Ms. Palin told reporters in Boston, taking aim at Mr. Romney's past support for a requirement that individuals in Massachusetts buy health insurance.
Ms. Palin's remarks -- and even her presence in the state -- were clearly intended to tweak Mr. Romney on his big day. Ms. Palin has said her bus tour is not meant to be political. But she arrived in New Hampshire a day earlier than expected and made her comments in time to be included in all of the stories about Mr. Romney's speech.
Mr. Giuliani, who was in New Hampshire on Thursday to speak at a local Republican event, also took aim at Mr. Romney's health care record, saying: ''The reality is that Obamacare and Romneycare are almost exactly the same. I would think the best way to handle it is to say, 'It was a terrible mistake and if I could do it over again, I wouldn't do it.' ''
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, arrives this weekend for several days in New Hampshire. And Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, has said he will compete aggressively in New Hampshire.
The attacks by Ms. Palin and Mr. Giuliani highlight what many observers say is a central problem for Mr. Romney as he seeks the nod from Republicans: No matter what he says about the economy and jobs and foreign policy, his rivals have one response: that Mr. Romney was the inspiration for Mr. Obama's health care plan.
In his speech, Mr. Romney barely mentioned the issue, saying only that he ''hammered out a solution that took a bad situation and made it better -- not perfect, but it was a state solution for a state problem.'' That got no applause from the crowd of several hundred people who gathered for a chili cookout with Mr. Romney and his wife, Ann, before the announcement.
Instead, Mr. Romney and his aides hope to focus voter attention on the credentials they say make him the best choice for reversing the economic policies of Mr. Obama's administration.
On Thursday, Mr. Romney accused Mr. Obama of failing to live up to the promise of economic recovery he made in his 2008 campaign. And he pledged, without hesitation, to repeal the president's health care overhaul.
''We will return responsibility and authority to the states for dozens of government programs -- and that begins with a complete repeal of Obamacare,'' he said. ''From my first day in office, my No. 1 job will be to see that America once again is No. 1 in job creation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney, next to his wife, Ann, said the Pledge of Allegiance before announcing his presidential candidacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN MCCOLLESTER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (55%); OIL & GAS PRICES (55%); GASOLINE PRICES (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); SARAH PALIN (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



98 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Abramson to Succeed Keller As Executive Editor of Times

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Jill Abramson, a former investigative reporter who rose to prominence as a Washington correspondent and editor, will become the next executive editor of The New York Times, succeeding Bill Keller, who is stepping down to become a full-time writer for the paper.
Ms. Abramson has been one of Mr. Keller's two top deputies since 2003, serving at his side as he steered The Times through a period of journalistic distinction and economic distress. Mr. Keller said that with the paper's finances now on surer footing, he felt at ease handing the reins to Ms. Abramson.
The move was accompanied by another shift in senior management. Dean Baquet, the Washington bureau chief and former editor of The Los Angeles Times, will become the managing editor for news.
Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the paper's publisher and the chairman of The New York Times Company, thanked Mr. Keller, calling him a ''truly valued partner'' in a speech Thursday morning in the Times newsroom, where the staff stood shoulder to shoulder to hear the publisher announce the first changeover in the top editing jobs in eight years. 
Turning toward Ms. Abramson, who will become the first woman to be editor of the paper in its 160-year history, Mr. Sulzberger said, ''Jill, Bill's decision to step down may be bittersweet. But the thought of you as our next executive editor gives me and gives all of us great comfort and great confidence.''
The appointments are effective Sept. 6. John M. Geddes, 59, will continue in his role as managing editor for news operations.
Over the course of Mr. Keller's tenure, the paper won 18 Pulitzer Prizes and expanded its online audience to some 50 million readers worldwide. But the economic downturn and the drift of readers and advertisers to the Web also forced the paper to lay off members of the news staff and tighten budgets considerably.
''A couple of years ago, everybody was wringing their hands about doomsday for the news business,'' Mr. Keller said to the staff, his voice emotional at times. ''People talked, some of them rather smugly, about even The New York Times not being long for this world. And now you look around, and we are economically sturdy. We are rich in talent. We are growing.''
Mr. Keller will continue to write for The Times Magazine and as a columnist for the new Sunday opinion section, which will make its debut this month. Mr. Sulzberger said he accepted Mr. Keller's resignation ''with mixed emotions,'' adding that the decision to leave was entirely Mr. Keller's.
Mr. Keller, 62, is still a few years shy of the paper's mandatory retirement age for senior executives, but he held the top job for roughly the same period of time as Max Frankel and Joseph Lelyveld, two of the editors who preceded him. Mr. Frankel and Mr. Lelyveld returned to the newsroom for the announcement.
Mr. Keller had asked Ms. Abramson to be his managing editor in 2003 as he assembled a team that he hoped would restore confidence in the paper after the Jayson Blair plagiarism scandal. Ms. Abramson had been part of a group of editors who clashed with Howell Raines, the executive editor who was forced out after Mr. Blair's fraud was discovered.
Ms. Abramson, 57, said being named executive editor was ''the honor of my life'' and like ''ascending to Valhalla'' for someone who read The Times as a young girl growing up in New York. ''We are held together by our passion for our work, our friendship and our deep belief in the mission and indispensability of The Times,'' she said. ''I look forward to working with all of you to seize our future. In this thrilling and challenging transition, we will cross to safety together.''
The selection of Ms. Abramson is something of a departure for The Times, an institution that has historically chosen executive editors who ascended the ranks through postings in overseas bureaus and managing desks like Foreign or Metro.
Ms. Abramson came to The Times in 1997 from The Wall Street Journal, where she was a deputy bureau chief and an investigative reporter for nine years. She rose quickly at The Times, becoming Washington editor in 1999 and then bureau chief in 2000. She stepped aside temporarily from her day-to-day duties as managing editor last year to help run The Times's online operations, a move she asked to make so she could develop fuller, firsthand experience with the integration of the digital and print staffs.
In her remarks to the staff on Thursday, she took time to acknowledge ''my sisters,'' naming more than a dozen women at The Times who have helped her along the way, including the company's chief executive, Janet L. Robinson. ''Every executive editor stands on the shoulders of others,'' she said.
In an interview, Ms. Abramson said she would turn her attention toward a full plate of tasks, focusing first on integrating the digital and print operations more fully, retaining top talent and making NYTimes.com more of an online community.
She also said she believed The Times could be more efficiently managed. ''We have a culture of consensus at The Times, and that's wonderful in one way. But it's hobbling in others,'' she said. ''I think it's possible to preserve the good things about the culture of consensus. But I know Arthur is also very concerned about creating a culture of effectiveness and follow-through.''
Asking Mr. Baquet to become her deputy was Ms. Abramson's first major move. As managing editor for news he will supervise the daily report, a job he said he planned to do through constant direct collaborations with editors and reporters.
''My main goal,'' he told the staff, ''is to stay as close as possible to news gathering. To work the room, to talk to editors and reporters every day, to make sure that we break big stories and have fun doing it.''
He added, ''I'm here to listen, to listen to your ideas, to push you to be as ambitious as possible, to get out of your way when you have a big one.''
Mr. Baquet's career has included reporting and editing jobs at some of the country's largest and most influential newspapers, including The Chicago Tribune and The Times-Picayune in New Orleans. He was national editor for The New York Times before leaving to become managing editor of The Los Angeles Times in 2000. He became that paper's editor in 2005 but left in 2006 after his efforts to resist further cuts in the newsroom strained relations with the paper's owners.
Soon after he left Los Angeles, The New York Times named him Washington bureau chief.
Mr. Baquet, 54, who was often perceived as Ms. Abramson's top rival for the executive editor's job, said he had a collaborative relationship with the new editor, not a competitive one.
''Jill played a big role in bringing me back to the paper,'' he said in an interview. ''I always thought the competitive thing was too overblown. It was too easy a story line. For the last four years, she's been my boss. And she's my friend. Of course we can work together.''
As for Mr. Keller's plans, he said he was still working out the details of his Op-Ed column and his Magazine assignment. He did rule out one project. ''I won't be writing a book about The New York Times,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jill Abramson and Bill Keller after it was announced Thursday she would be The Times's next executive editor. Dean Baquet, left, will become the managing editor for news. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); RETIREMENT AGE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (85%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (70%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



99 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Is Said to Receive Subpoena Over Crisis Role

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
9:21 p.m. Updated
The bad news just keeps on coming for Goldman Sachs.
The Wall Street investment bank has received a subpoena from the office of the Manhattan district attorney, which is investigating Goldman's role in the financial crisis, said one person familiar with the subpoena.
It comes amid increased enforcement scrutiny of the company, which has faced blistering criticism that it shorted - or bet against - the mortgage market before it collapsed and that it knowingly sold bundles of bad mortgages to its clients. Goldman denies these accusations. 
The inquiry stems from a 650-page Senate report from the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations that indicated Goldman had misled clients and Congress about its practices related to mortgage-linked securities.
Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who led the Congressional inquiry, had sent his findings to the Justice Department to figure out whether executives broke the law. The agency said it was reviewing the report.
The subpoena means several government agencies may be running parallel, and possibly competing, investigations. The subpoena arrived Friday and is limited to ground covered in the Senate report, said the person familiar with it, who was not authorized to speak on the record. Subpoenas are requests for information and do not necessarily mean charges against Goldman or individuals at the company are inevitable.
Still, the development of a subpoena from the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., did not seem to surprise investors.
''This news is not unexpected,'' Christopher Maimone, an analyst at Standard & Poor's Equity Research, wrote in a note to clients, explaining that Senator Levin's referral had made continued investigations a near certainty.
Still, shares of Goldman fell $1.79, or 1.3 percent, to close at $134.38, though earlier in the day, before investors digested the news, its shares fell as much as 3.5 percent. Goldman shares traded above $170 at the beginning of the year.
Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, who has run the company since 2006, has privately told people recently that he has no plans to leave the company and wants to see it through this difficult period. Still, the recent subpoenas are sure to resurrect calls for a change at the top.
''You would have to think that the more these types of headlines persist, the greater pressure there will be for change,'' said William Tanona, an analyst at the investment bank UBS. He has previously worked at Goldman Sachs.
Whatever the outcome of the investigations, investors do not expect Goldman itself to be indicted. No firm has ever survived such a blow. E. F. Hutton & Company and Drexel Burnham Lambert collapsed after being indicted in the 1980s before the cases even went to trial.
Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said in a note to investors on Tuesday that he believed that the government might seek to reach a settlement with Goldman.
''In a worst case environment, we would expect a 'too big to fail' bank such as Goldman to be offered a deferred-prosecution agreement, pay a significant fine and submit to a federal monitor in lieu of a criminal charge,'' he wrote.
The subpoena came almost two weeks after lawyers for Goldman Sachs met with the office of the attorney general of New York for an ''exploratory'' meeting about the Senate report, the people said.
In a statement, Goldman Sachs said: ''We don't comment on specific regulatory or legal issues, but subpoenas are a normal part of the information request process and, of course, when we receive them we cooperate fully.''
Goldman was one of the survivors of the financial crisis. But it has come under fire from the public and Washington since then. It was first attacked for its outsize pay packages, which came at a time when most of America was still reeling from the crisis. Then, in April 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil fraud suit against the company. Goldman was accused of creating a mortgage product that was intended to fail. The company settled with the S.E.C., agreeing to pay $550 million without admitting or denying guilt.
It was one of the darkest chapters in the company's 142-year history, and it catapulted Goldman into the public spotlight, a place the secretive company was unaccustomed to. Rolling Stone magazine, hardly a first read on Wall Street, began writing regularly about the firm, calling it a ''vampire squid.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. of Manhattan is said to be investigating Goldman Sachs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (97%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (60%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (60%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%); CARL LEVIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



100 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Rural Legislators' Power Ebbs as Populations Shift

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
LINCOLN, Neb. -- Residents here like to repeat a well-worn saying about Nebraska: it is home to more cows than people. Unlike some cliches, this one has the advantage of being true. According to the most recent counts, there are more than three times as many cows (6.2 million) as people (1.8 million).
But another surprising population statistic is challenging the identity of Nebraska, the nation's largest beef-producing state, as an essentially rural place. More than half the population, according to recent census data, is now clustered in just three counties, out of 93 total, that are home to the state's three largest cities.
The people who remain in rural parts of the country are used to seeing declining enrollment at schools and shuttered businesses on Main Street, as well as weakening political muscle in Washington. But now they are watching their political power falter even in states that have long been considered synonymous with rural America. 
As capitals across the country tackle the contentious work of redrawing state legislative districts, one sure loser will be rural representation. Even here in the Great Plains, farmland areas are more often being overpowered in political tugs of war for state budget dollars.
In North Dakota, for example, where 79 percent of counties lost population but the Fargo area boomed, more education money has migrated to urban schools and universities. In Kansas, which is using tax exemptions to lure new residents to counties facing double-digit population losses, rural legislators were unable to block a transportation bill favorable to the thriving metro areas. And in Iowa, where the new redistricting map shows gains for urban and suburban areas, rural legislators are already strategizing about their handicap of operating with fewer votes.
''It really is the next chapter in the long saga of the loss of rural political power in America,'' said Tim Storey, a redistricting expert with the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Here at the Nebraska Unicameral Legislature, where city and country have sometimes been a more natural dividing line than Republican and Democrat, the redistricting plan signed by Gov. Dave Heineman last week moved yet another Senate district from the rural west to the densely populated sliver of land that is home to the cities of Omaha, Lincoln and Bellevue as well as much of the suburbs.
The transfer of power will give the most urbanized section of Nebraska a slim legislative majority, after years in which rural leaders watched their clear dominance wane on issues like education financing, water rights, economic development, agricultural property taxes and state spending.
''Rural senators have to work harder and work smarter to be successful,'' said Mike Flood, speaker of the nonpartisan Legislature, who represents a mostly rural district. ''The days of rural senators relying on each other and not working with their friends from Omaha and Lincoln are gone.''
Ever since Thomas Jefferson proclaimed his vision of a nation of yeoman farmers, the United States has become steadily less rural.
The country was declared mostly urban in the 1920 census, prompting outraged rural congressmen to wait years before approving the findings. Today, more than four of five Americans are packed into 366 metro areas, according to the 2010 census. This trend has been fought by rural legislators, many of whom see themselves as defending a way of life. Indeed, it was their refusal to relinquish power -- just 35 percent of voters elected half the state legislators nationwide as recently as the 1960s -- that led the Supreme Court to intervene with a series of rulings beginning that decade that transformed redistricting.
In many states, the rural areas are simply growing less quickly than urban and suburban areas. In Georgia, for example, the Atlanta region appears likely to take control of a majority in the legislature. But throughout the Great Plains, residents have flocked from farm country to metro areas.
''We've gone from a pretty rural state -- and when you mention Nebraska, people think rural -- to a mostly urban state,'' said Jon Bailey, a researcher at the Center for Rural Affairs, based in Nebraska.
Nebraska has five Fortune 500 companies, including Berkshire Hathaway, all based in Omaha. Nevertheless, state leaders acknowledge the dominance of the farms and ranches that occupy 93 percent of the land and have helped insulate the state economy from some of the recessionary woes seen elsewhere.
But the industrialization of farming has allowed fewer people to work more land; with fewer jobs, people leave and businesses close.
Lavon Heidemann is one of just eight state senators in Nebraska to list his occupation as farmer or rancher, down from 20 senators 35 years ago. He rises early each day of the legislative session to tend his cattle before commuting more than an hour to the capital, where he serves as chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
From this powerful post, Mr. Heidemann has watched with frustration as urban senators have blocked some rural-centric legislation, like his bill to reduce taxes on agricultural land. (Indeed, an urban colleague one office down suggested it might be time to increase the taxing on agricultural land to bring it into greater parity with taxes on residential and businesses property.)
''There are instances where I see we don't have enough votes to say, 'Hey, we're important, too,' '' Mr. Heidemann said. ''Once Lincoln partners with Omaha, it's over.''
One prominent example is changes to school financing formulas that redirect more state money to metro areas. Deb Fischer, who represents an area the size of New Jersey that lost nearly 10 percent of its population in the last decade, said the changes caused elementary schools in her district to close and many surviving schools to struggle with no or drastically reduced state aid (down to $400,000 a year from $1.2 million in her hometown, Valentine).
While Ms. Fischer represents 21 school districts, some of which have graduating classes that can be counted on two hands, her colleague Danielle Conrad represents just one, Lincoln Public Schools, with a graduating class of 1,770. Ms. Conrad pointed to the disparity to justify moving the financing to the cities because, she said, that is where the children are.
''As political power and population shifts, the legislators are less and less tolerant of the subsidies that have been built in,'' said Larry Scherer, who has tracked the dispute as research director for the Nebraska State Education Association. ''As a result, less and less aid goes to rural areas.''
But even as metro-area senators in several states find their clout growing, their power is sometimes diffused by infighting between city and suburbs or city and city -- a contrast to the more monolithic rural coalitions.
''We haven't seen the creation of a strong urban identity,'' said Bill Avery, a Lincoln senator who sits on the redistricting committee. ''It takes a while for people's attitudes and cultural orientations to catch up with the numbers.''
Online Correction: June 2, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misidentified the hometown of Senator Bill Avery as Omaha.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Highway 275 used to run through the town of Hooper, Neb., until a few years ago when a new bypass, left, was created. The original Hooper sign still sits along the old highway. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
State Senator Deb Fischer's Nebraska district is the size of New Jersey and has lost nearly 10 percent of its population. (A12)
State Senator Mike Flood, leader of the Nebraska Legislature, at his Capitol office in Lincoln. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN LEHMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) CHARTS: POPULATION CHANGE BY REGION, 1980-2010 (A12)
Bigger Losses in Rural Areas: In the past three decades, many states in the Midwest lost population in rural areas while gaining in metro areas. States that are traditionally thought of as rural, like North Dakota, Nebraska and Kansas, have had among the biggest losses. (Sources: Census Bureau
 U.S.D.A. Economic Research Service) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (88%); CITIES (88%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SUBURBS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); CENSUS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); URBANIZATION (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (68%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (66%); WATER RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: DEB FISCHER (79%); DAVE HEINEMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (94%); OMAHA, NE, USA (92%); FARGO, ND, USA (55%) NEBRASKA, USA (97%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



101 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Sell Its Chrysler Stake to Fiat

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The Treasury Department on Thursday said it reached a deal to sell its stake in Chrysler to Fiat for $500 million. The move would end the government's involvement in Chrysler but still leave taxpayers about $1.3 billion short of recovering their full investment in the carmaker. 
President Obama plans to announce the deal during a visit to a Chrysler plant in Toledo, Ohio, on Friday.
''As Treasury exits its investment in Chrysler, it's clear that President Obama's decision to stand behind and restructure this company was the right one,'' the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said in a statement. ''Today, America's automakers are mounting one of the most improbable turnarounds in recent history -- creating new jobs and making new investments in communities across our country.''
The deal on Thursday and Fiat's purchase last week of 16 percent of Chrysler for $1.3 billion, value Chrysler at a little more than $8 billion. The Treasury owns 6 percent of Chrysler, on a fully diluted basis.
Chrysler last week also repaid the $7.5 billion it owed to the United States and Canada.
The sale of Treasury's stake is subject to regulatory approval and expected to close in one to three months, said two people with direct knowledge of the transaction's details but who were not authorized to speak publicly about the matter. It will give Fiat majority ownership of Chrysler, which emerged from bankruptcy protection a little more than two years ago.
In addition to buying Treasury's shares, Fiat also agreed to buy options held by the American and Canadian governments to purchase Chrysler shares held by a United Automobile Workers union trust fund for $5 billion. Treasury will receive $60 million for the options, and $15 million will go to Canada.
The governments were not interested in buying more shares of Chrysler, according to the people who spoke on condition of anonymity. Fiat would then be able to acquire the vast majority of Chrysler outside of an initial public offering.
After the deal closes, Chrysler will have repaid $11.2 billion of the $12.5 billion it received from Treasury in 2008 and 2009 to prevent its collapse.
A report by the White House National Economic Council this week projected that the government will fail to recoup about $14 billion of the $80 billion it put into rescuing the auto industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); DIVESTITURES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); APPROVALS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (92%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



102 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Animal Planet) WHALE WARS: ROAD TO THE SHOWDOWN After the destruction of the Ady Gil and the detainment of its captain, Pete Bethune, in a Tokyo prison last season, the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, under the leadership of Capt. Paul Watson, returns to the Antarctic to keep Japanese whaling ships in its sights. The latest campaign is Operation No Compromises, with a mission to end whaling once and for all. This hourlong special looks back at memorable moments from Season 3, before the 9 p.m. premiere of Season 4, in which the Sea Shepherds (above, a crew member) head south with a new vessel, the Gojira, in its fleet and discover two Japanese harpoon ships that have yet to kill a whale.
5 P.M. (Fox News Channel) SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER: THE WAR OVER MEDICARE Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, weighs in. ''Fox News Reporting: Shattered Dreams,'' at 10, looks at government efforts to improve the economy. 
7 P.M. (MSG) MUSIC FRIDAYS POWERED BY FUSE Part of the MSG Summer Block Party, this new concert series kicks off with behind-the-scenes and onstage footage from Z100's Jingle Ball, followed by ''Kings of Leon: Live from Bonnaroo 2010,'' at 9, and the ''2010 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony,'' featuring Abba and Genesis, at 11. ''Indie NYC Powered by Baeblemusic,'' which highlights indie bands in New York City sites, closes out the lineup at 1 a.m. Kate Upton, the Sports Illustrated model, and Allison Hagendorf, the Fuse personality, host.
8 P.M. (NBC) FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS Coach Taylor (Kyle Chandler) worries that he is losing control of his team after Vince (Michael B. Jordan) alienates the other players through his arrogance.
8 P.M. (FX) FORGETTING SARAH MARSHALL (2008) In this breakup comedy produced by Judd Apatow and directed by Nicholas Stoller, a doughy, underachieving musician (Jason Segel, left) encounters his ex-girlfriend (Kristen Bell), the star of a television series, with her rock 'n' roll lover (Russell Brand) at a resort in Hawaii. Good thing the receptionist (Mila Kunis) has a soft spot for losers. The cast includes Paul Rudd, Jonah Hill, Bill Hader and Jack McBrayer. Writing in The New York Times, A. O. Scott said that the film's ''overall jollity is streaked with some raw emotions, including jealousy, heartache and humiliation.'' In ''I Love You, Man'' (2009), at 8 on TBS, Mr. Rudd and Mr. Segel reunite to play Peter Klaven, a girl's guy without a male friend, and Sydney Fife, a guy's guy. The two meet cute at an open house, and voila, Peter has a best man to stand by his side at his wedding to Zooey (Rashida Jones).
8 P.M. (IFC) SLUMS OF BEVERLY HILLS (1998) In Tamara Jenkins's autobiographical tale, set in 1976, a rueful teenager named Vivian Abramowitz (Natasha Lyonne) tries to deal with her lower-middle-class family, which wanders from one apartment to another on the fringes of Beverly Hills so that her divorced father, Murray (Alan Arkin), can keep her and her two brothers in a good school district. Marisa Tomei is Rita, Vivian's zany cousin, who, just out of rehab, prances about in the nude in the family's living room. Jessica Walter is the real housewife that Murray is trying to date. ''It's hard to know what's coming next in a film that devotes one sequence to breast-reduction surgery and a couple of others to Vivian's discovery of the vibrator (courtesy of Rita),'' Janet Maslin wrote in The New York Times. Still, she added, ''Ms. Jenkins, who makes her writing and directing debut with wit and confidence, keeps the small surprises frequent and the coming-of-age perspective sharp.''
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW Donald Barlett and James Steele report on clinical trials in which insufficient oversight has allowed dangerous drugs to reach the market. Other segments look at the use of antipsychotic drugs in the foster care system and childhood obesity.
9 P.M. (ABC) JAMIE OLIVER'S FOOD REVOLUTION Mr. Oliver and his 10 teenage culinary students at West Adams Preparatory High School receive some bad news: they've been barred from serving food on campus. Now it's time for a reality check.
10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER Larry King; former Representative Rick A. Lazio, Republican of New York; and Melissa Harris-Perry, associate professor of politics and African-American studies at Princeton, are seated at the round table. Shaun Donovan, the secretary of housing and urban development, and the writer and producer Adam McKay are interview guests. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY STOKES/ANIMAL PLANET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHALING (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); POP & ROCK (87%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); MUSIC (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); MEDICARE (68%); NEWS REPORTING (67%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: SEA SHEPHERD CONSERVATION SOCIETY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) ANTARCTICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



103 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Podcast: Job Woes, Pet Boom and Annuity Puzzle

BYLINE: JEFF SOMMER


HIGHLIGHT: A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen.

 BODY:
The economic recovery from the shock of the financial crisis has never been all that strong, but the Labor Department's monthly report on jobs and unemployment painted a picture of an economy that may be struggling even to keep growing.Catherine Rampell, who covers the economy for The Times, says in the new Weekend Business podcast that the number of nonfarm payroll jobs created in the United States in May - just 54,000 - was far lower than nearly all economists had predicted. The unemployment rate moved in the wrong direction, too - upward, to 9.1 percent from 9 percent. And manufacturing jobs declined for the first time in seven months. There was little in this report to cheer about, although it's possible that some of the problems were temporary, stemming from factors like bad weather and global supply-chain effects persisting from Japan's earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster.
In a separate conversation on the podcast, David Gillen talks to Andrew Martin about one area of the economy that has been nearly recession-proof: the pet business. As Mr. Martin writes on the cover of Sunday Business, pet foods suitable for human palates have been proliferating, and pet "parents," as the industry calls them, have often lavished treats on their cats and dogs even when they've cut back on spending for themselves.
I also talk to Richard Thaler, the University of Chicago behavioral economist, about what he calls "the annuity puzzle" - the unpopularity of annuities despite their economic advantages. Traditional pensions are a form of annuities, but as most working people shift to defined-benefit plans like 401(k)'s, they are faced with a bewildering set of options upon retirement. He writes in the Economic View column in Sunday Business that few of them have been buying annuities even though it might be in their interest to do so. The reasons for this seem to be more psychological in nature than a matter of pure financial calculus.
In a conversation with Phyllis Korkki, I describe another behavioral quandary, which is the focus of my Strategies column in Sunday Business. This is "the trading paradox," the propensity of many investors to trade frequently, regretting some of those trades yet feeling unable to do anything about it. A new study by Barclays Wealth highlights these internal conflicts. Because frequent trading is associated with market underperformance, curbing this behavior could be of great benefit. Much like overeating or gambling, however, for some people frequent trading isn't easily corrected. 
You can find specific segments of the podcast at these junctures: the economic outlook (29:29); news summary (21:33); the pet business (17:39); annuities (12:53); compulsive trading (6:02); the week ahead (1:56).
As articles discussed in the podcast are published during the weekend, links will be added to this post.
You can download the program by subscribing from The New York Times's podcast page or directly from iTunes.

        
In the Jobs Report, One Big Question
        
Podcast: Jobs, Wages and Middle-Class Costs 
        
The Return of the Blue-Collar Downturn
        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Looking Ahead to the Jobs Report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PODCASTING (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); TSUNAMIS (73%); CATS (71%); PETS (71%); US 401K PLANS (69%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (69%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (68%); DOGS (66%); PET FOODS (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%) Annuities; employment; jobs; jobs report; labor; May 2011 jobs report; Pets; podcast; trading paradox; Unemployment; Weekend Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



104 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2232 words

HEADLINE: What Do Economic Models Really Tell Us About Elections?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Core economic variables appear to explain about half of the presidential vote -- the rest is up to the candidates and the voters.

 BODY:
Yesterday's column on the weak historical relationship between the unemployment rate and presidential performance generated a mostly favorable reaction. But I also got a few replies wondering how to reconcile these findings against the claims, made with some frequency by political scientists, that presidential elections can be forecast with pinpoint accuracy provided that you know the economic fundamentals.
Might it be that the unemployment rate is the "wrong" variable? It has a couple of flaws. It tends to be more a lagging than a leading indicator. It affects a relatively small number of voters (although underemployment is another matter). There is ample room to critique the way that it is calculated, such as by excluding "discouraged workers" from the calculation, and it's subject to reasonably large measurement errors.
Apart from the unemployment rate, the economic measures that we hear about most frequently are probably gross domestic product (G.D.P.) growth and inflation. Do either of these do a better job of forecasting elections?
Yes, but they still don't do terribly well.
Here's the comparison over the past 100 years of real (inflation-adjusted), per-capita G.D.P. growth over the course of the president's term to performance of the incumbent party:
G.D.P. growth explains about 12 percent of election results. That's something -- but it still leaves 88 percent unexplained. If this was as well as we could do, the slogan "it's the economy, stupid" might have to be revised to "sure, you'd rather have a better economy than a weaker one; it probably makes some difference at the margin" -- which doesn't make for a very good bumper sticker.
Roughly the same is true of the inflation rate:
However, this one is a little tricky because both high inflation and deflation have deleterious effects on the consumer. A quadratic curve does somewhat better than a straight-line estimate: low (but positive) inflation helps the incumbent president, while either deflation or high inflation hurt.
You can do a bit better still if you combine these measures. One relatively elegant method is to subtract the inflation rate from the per-capita G.D.P. growth rate. This explains about 43 percent of the variance in election results:
So we can breathe a sigh of relief. The economic fundamentals clearly do make some difference -- quite a bit really. 
But we shouldn't expect any miracles. This cute little model would have called the wrong winner in six of the past 25 elections: 1912, 1948, 1952, 1960, 1968, and 2000 (although it would have gotten the winner of the popular vote right in that year). And it would have missed the margin in the popular vote by about 8 points on average, or roughly 4 points for each of the two major candidates (since a vote for one of them means a vote against the other).
This seems like a healthy state of affairs. Simple economic variables can account for a little less than half of the variability in election results. The other half falls into the "everything else" category, including factors such as foreign policy successes and failures, major scandals, incumbency, candidate quality, controversial social legislation and structural factors like changes in partisanship. Technically speaking, some of the variability may also be explained by economic factors that weigh upon voters' minds, but which are not easily quantified by measures like G.D.P. and inflation. 
Nevertheless, the heuristic "it's half the economy and half everything else, stupid" is a pretty good way to think about presidential elections.
Some models, however, claim to have much more predictive power than this, using economic variables (sometimes along with noneconomic variables) to explain as much as 90 percent of presidential election results. You should be very skeptical of these claims.
Perhaps the best-known of these models is the so-called "Bread and Peace" model designed by Douglas Hibbs of the University of Gothenberg. There are a lot of things to admire about this model. Most notably, it's not larded down with superfluous variables. Instead, it is based on just two: growth in real, per-capita disposable income (weighted to place more emphasis on the later years of a president's term than the earlier ones), and the number of military fatalities resulting from U.S.-initiated foreign conflicts. (The latter definition would apply to wars like Iraq or Vietnam -- but not to something like the Gulf War or World War II where the U.S. was responding to another country's attack.)
Mr. Hibbs, using data from 1952 through 2008, claims to be able to explain almost 90 percent of the variance in presidential election results based on these variables alone, missing the results by just a point or two on average:
There are a couple of common critiques of this model. One is that the way it defines wars is a bit problematic. For instance, because the Korean War resulted in 14 times more U.S. fatalities than the Iraq War, it had about 14 times more effect on Mr. Hibbs's model. Perhaps that's a defensible position -- U.S. soldiers being killed in action is a very noticeable impact for the public -- but by other measures we might have expected Iraq to have a larger impact: it was more unpopular than the Korean War, and it was quite a bit more expensive.
Nevertheless, the proof is the model's predictive power. Mr. Hibbs first released forecasts using this model in 1992, and since then it has performed acceptably well but not superbly, with fairly big misses in 1996 and 2000 but good results in the other years, including 2008.
Still, there are some signs that the model is not quite as accurate as claimed. Using these two variables to forecast the results of the elections of 1952 through 1988 -- the dataset that Mr. Hibbs originally had to work with -- would have missed the incumbent party's vote share by just 0.8 percentage points, on average. Since then, on the out-of-sample results, the average miss has been 2.6 percentage points.
We can, of course, wait to see how this model does in 2012, 2016, 2020 and so forth to get a better sense for how accurate it really is. But I don't have that much patience! So here's what we can do instead -- it's a technique that I've applied to other models of this type. We can plug in the data from elections prior to 1952, which were outside the period that the model to build its estimates. How would the model have performed in 1948, for example?
I dug deep into the bowels of the Census Bureau's Web site and discovered data on disposable income growth dating back to the 1920s. (The data is annual rather than quarterly, but this is easy to adjust for and should make only an extremely minor difference.) The other variable that Mr. Hibbs uses -- military casualties -- isn't pertinent to these years because the only major conflict that the U.S. fought in during this period was World War II, a "good" war in which the United States was compelled into action because of Axis hostilities and that therefore would not meet Mr. Hibbs's definition.
Here, again, is how the model performed from 1952 through 2008:
Now, let's plug in 1948:
Uh-oh. The model did really, really badly in 1948. Disposable income growth was actually negative in the four years preceding 1948, according to Mr. Hibbs's formula. It would have predicted, therefore, just a 43 percent share of the two-party vote (that is, excluding votes for third parties) for Harry Truman. Instead, Truman got 52 percent of the two-party vote and won the election over Thomas Dewey, much to the Chicago Tribune's surprise. 
But 1948 was a weird year -- lots of erratic economic data in the postwar period. How would the model have performed in 1944?
Another bad year for the model. Income growth was prodigious in these years, and the model would have expected Franklin Roosevelt to win a landslide victory, getting 66 percent of the two-party vote. Roosevelt booked a solid win, but his actual total of 54 percent of the two-party vote is not particularly close to the model's estimate. This election occurred during World War II; perhaps Mr. Hibbs' distinction between good and bad wars is less salient to the American public than we might think. But this is a poor result.
The 1940 election occurred before the bombing of Pearl Harbor, and the model performed better in that year, missing Roosevelt's vote share by 4 points.
But 1936 constituted another big problem. Disposable income growth between 1932 and 1936 was an astounding 8.5 percent. That should have translated, according to the formula, to Roosevelt receiving 77 percent of the two-party vote. Roosevelt performed really, really well in 1936, winning all but two states, but he won only 62 percent of the vote rather than 77 percent.
A similar problem is apparent in 1932. Herbert Hoover presided over the biggest economic disaster in United States history, with per capita income growth declining by 8.4 percent. Mr. Hibbs's formula would have called for him to win just 16 percent of the major-party vote. Hoover did, in fact, lose in a landslide, but things weren't quite that bad.
1928, a seemingly normal year (no depressions, no wars), was another bad one for the model. Although some other economic measures were decent or good, disposable income growth was slow enough that the model would have predicted that Hoover would receive 47 percent of the vote and lose the election. Instead, he won in a landslide, defeating the Democratic candidate, Al Smith.
If it's any consolation, the model would have performed quite well in 1924.
Overall, however, the model performs quite poorly on out-of-sample results. In the years from 1924 through 1948, and from 1992 through 2008, it would have missed the incumbent party's vote share by an average of 7.8 points, and a median of 4.7 points. By contrast, a naive strategy of simply guessing that the incumbent party would win exactly half the vote would have done better, missing by an average of 5.8 points and a median of 4.3 points. 
If we redo the model using all the data from 1924 through 2008, it explains about 60 percent -- not 90 percent -- of the variance in the presidential vote. Importantly, the coefficient on the growth variable is also quite a bit lower, meaning that the electorate is somewhat less sensitive to economic performance. Each percentage point rise in income growth translates to a 1.5 percentage point rise in the incumbent party's vote share, rather than 3.6 percent as the original model implied.
And if we remove the war causalities variable and just focus on what the model tells us about the economy, it explains almost exactly half the vote. That's good, but not much better than our simple G.D.P.-and-inflation model. 
To be clear, I think Mr. Hibbs's model is the best of its kind. But there's nothing magical about it, and the fact that it performed so uncannily well from 1952 through 1988 is not a good reflection of its predictive power. Core economic variables explain about half of the presidential vote -- the rest is up to the candidates and the voters.
At the risk of beating a dead horse, let me reiterate that this is a result that I find intuitively appealing. 
I'd be worried if, as our study of the unemployment rate seemed to imply, the economy had no effect on election results at all; that clearly seems wrong given the effect it has upon people's lives and the media's (appropriate) attention to it. 
But I'd be just as worried if one or two economic variables explained 90 percent of the results. Wars matter, above and beyond what can be measured with a single variable based on military causalities. Watergate mattered. September 11 mattered. Monica Lewinsky mattered. The fact that parties have nominated candidates as strong as Dwight Eisenhower and as weak as George McGovern -- that matters. It matters that the electorate goes through phases of being relatively more and relatively less partisan. 
In 2012, things like President Obama's unpopular health care bill, the Republicans' unpopular Medicare bill, and the death of Osama bin Laden are likely to matter. So will the economy (those numbers are getting worse for Mr. Obama). 
But the results are not quite baked in, as some would have you believe. Until we reach the point where the polls become more reliable -- the nice thing about polls is that they permit voters to determine for themselves what matters to them, rather than having preferences inferred by a statistical formula -- my advice is to look at more rather than fewer pieces of evidence.
Look at a broad range of economic variables -- maybe you should pay a little bit more attention to disposable income growth, and a little bit less to unemployment -- but look at all of the major ones. Look at Mr. Obama's approval ratings -- we're just now getting to the point where they can start to have a tiny bit of predictive power. Look at the number of people who say the country is on the right track or the wrong track. Don't dismiss the importance of factors like the health care bill and the death of Bin Laden just because their impact is harder to quantify. Furthermore, consider the potential impact of "black swan" types of events: everything from a debt default to a Tea Party candidate running as an independent. 
It's much too soon to reduce the election down to a four-word catch phrase, or to a two-variable formula. It's the economy, stupid. And everything else too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TRENDS (77%); DEFLATION (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Elections; Presidential Elections (US); United States Economy; United States Politics and Government

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



105 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Money Woes Force Hiatus for Philharmonic Orchestra of the Americas

BYLINE: DANIEL J. WAKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Few contributions and rising costs force a suspension of operations.

 BODY:
The fledgling Philharmonic Orchestra of the Americas, with few contributions on the horizon and facing rising costs, is suspending operations, its chairman said on Friday. The orchestra, based in New York, was founded in 2004 by Alondra de la Parra, a rising young Mexican conductor, and made a specialty of Latin American music. It toured in Mexico recently in honor of the country's bicentennial and gave three or four concerts a year in New York. Ms. de la Parra and the orchestra also released a recording of Latin American works last year.
 "The economic environment is so difficult, and we are not a mature organization," said the chairman, Martin F. Lewis. "We don't have that solid support base from large sponsors. And so, we felt the ability to raise significant dollars for next year was very much in doubt." Contributing to the decision was the prospect of having to pay the musicians higher wages after management began negotiating with the musicians' union, Local 802. "That wasn't a factor in and of itself that caused the decision," Mr. Lewis said.

        
Where Should New York City Opera Go?
        
Music Library at Harvard Acquires a Trove of Solti's Scores
        
With Levine Leaving, Boston Symphony Announces Plans for Next Season
        
Kronos Quartet Honored with Two Awards
        
Detroit Symphony Orchestra Has Tentative Deal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (55%) Classical Music; de la Parra, Alondra; Philharmonic Orchestra of the Americas; Latin America; arts general; New York City

ORGANIZATION: Philharmonic Orchestra of the Americas

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (58%) de la Parra, Alondra

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%) Latin America

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



106 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Average Length of Unemployment at All-Time High

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The average unemployed person in America has been looking for work for 39.7 weeks, or more than nine months.

 BODY:
The average unemployed person in America has been looking for work for 39.7 weeks, or more than nine months. That is the longest average unemployment spell since the Labor Department started keeping track in 1948:
Now, the Labor Department changed the way it calculates this number in January. But even under the old methodology (shown in the teeny pink line at the far right of the chart), workers still had the longest average spells of unemployment on record this May.
The growing length of joblessness is particularly worrisome because it tends to be self-perpetuating. The longer a person is unemployed, the less employable he or she becomes because of factors like stigma and skill deterioration. That means that the longer it takes to get Americans back to work, the further behind they'll fall.
The social safety net for these workers is also fraying. Many of the long-term unemployed -- who now constitute about 45 percent of all unemployed workers -- have already had their jobless benefits run out. In some cases states (like Arizona) have neglected to make the legislative changes necessary to receive additional jobless benefits paid for with federal money.
To add insult to injury, many unemployed people who have retrained for new careers have so far racked up student loan debts but not jobs.
These long-term unemployed are disproportionately composed of older workers -- who, compared to younger workers, are less likely to lose their jobs, but more likely to have trouble finding re-employment if they are laid off. Given how far behind these workers have already fallen, it may turn out that many of these Americans will never work again.

        
Average Length of Unemployment Rises Again
        
5 Answers From Today's Jobs Report
        
5 Questions About Today's Jobs Report 
        
College Grads, High School Dropouts and Long-Term Unemployment
        
The Unemployed Online

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (65%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (65%); STUDENT LOANS (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (57%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) long-term unemployed; senior citizens; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; United States

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



107 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A look at how far the United States economy has to go before it fully recovers from the Great Recession.

 BODY:
The United States added just 54,000 nonfarm payroll jobs over all in May, the Labor Department reported Friday, after having added an average of 220,000 in each of the three prior months. The May jobs report showed the slowest private-sector hiring in a year.
After hopes had risen that the economy was picking up steam, hiring was lackluster across the board. The biggest gains were in professional and business services and in health care (which has been charging forward in good times and bad anyway). The losers were state and local governments, which have been struggling with budget issues. They are expected to continue shedding workers in months to come.
Even most of the winners, though, have a long way to go before returning to their prerecession levels.
The chart above shows economywide job changes in this last recession and recovery compared with other recent ones, with the black line representing the current downturn. Since the downturn began in December 2007, the economy has shed, on net, about 5 percent of its nonfarm payroll jobs. And that does not even account for the fact that the working-age population has continued to grow, meaning that if the economy were healthy we should have more jobs today than we had before the recession.
The unemployment rate - measured by a different government survey, and based on how many people are without jobs but are actively looking for work - was relatively unchanged in May, at 9.1 percent compared to 9 percent in April. 
There are now 13.9 million workers who are looking for work and cannot find it; the figure nearly doubles if you include workers who are part-time but want to be employed full-time, and workers who want to work but have stopped looking.

        
In the Jobs Report, One Big Question
        
Comparing Recoveries: Job Changes
        
A Sneak Peek at the February Jobs Report
        
Comparing Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Comparing Recoveries: Job Changes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%) employment; historical comparisons; jobs report; May 2011 jobs report; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; Recession and Depression; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



108 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Museum Raising Suggested Admission Fee

BYLINE: RANDY KENNEDY


HIGHLIGHT: The increase, to take effect July 1, is to $25 from $20.

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Museum of Art, facing what it calls a "number of daunting, ongoing budgetary challenges," has decided to raise its suggested admission fee to $25, from $20, where it has been set for the last five years. The change takes effect July 1.
 The move, said Thomas P. Campbell, the museum's director, was made because income from the Met's $2.3 billion endowment has flattened as the economy has continued to sputter and because the average amount paid by visitors - who can decide to contribute as little as a penny if they want - has been lower recently. "Since the average cost to the museum of each visitor is $40 we believe it is fair, and above all necessary, to increase recommended admission levels at this time," Mr. Campbell said in a statement.
While the museum declines to say what the average amount paid by each visitor is, for fear that most visitors will begin to pay only that amount, Harold Holzer, a Met spokesman, said that the per capita contribution usually goes up year by year but had slipped 16 cents during this fiscal year. "And when you're talking about millions of visitors, those cents add up," he said.
The city's contribution to the museum's operating budget has also declined in recent years, from a high of $13.7 million in the fiscal year 2007 to $10.6 million this fiscal year. The city has proposed cutting the contribution for fiscal 2012 to $5.4 million, which would be a huge blow to the museum's bottom line. Over the last 15 years the museum has raised the suggested admission price on average every three years. The suggested price for senior citizens will rise to $17, from $15, and the price for students to $12 from $10. The museum will continue to be free for children under the age of 12 and to student groups from New York City schools.

        
Met Museum to Add Hours, Charge $50 to Accommodate McQueen Show Crowds
        
Met Museum Sues Man Who Bought a Painting It Wasn't Selling
        
A Drama of Art Attribution to Play Out at the Metropolitan Museum
        
Met's Roof to Be Tamer This Season
        
Metropolitan Museum Purchases Work By Student of Raphael

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (85%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); CHILDREN (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%) Metropolitan Museum of Art; Campbell, Thomas P; Finances; Museums; New York City; art & design; arts general

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%) Metropolitan Museum of Art

PERSON: Campbell, Thomas P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



109 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Good News, and Bad, About Community Services

BYLINE: PAULA SPAN


HIGHLIGHT: Local governments are struggling to maintain community services for the elderly, according to a report released Thursday. 

 BODY:
Five years ago, the first edition of "The Maturing of America," a report undertaken by the National Association of Area Agencies on Aging with groups representing local governments and city planners, found that most communities hadn't begun to plan for the tidal shifts of the coming years, when the proportion of seniors over age 65 will swell from 13 percent of the nation's population today to nearly 20 percent by 2030.
The second edition, released on Thursday, finds a greater awareness of the trends in the 1,400 communities surveyed. But it also notes that the Great Recession has had devastating effects. "[M]ost communities have been able only to 'hold the line' -- maintaining policies, programs and services already established," the report said. "Thus, they have not been able to move forward to the degree needed to address the nation's current 'age wave.'"
A few bright spots emerged. More local governments have trained emergency staff to help older adults in the event of a disaster, probably a reaction to the terrible toll Hurricane Katrina took on the elderly. Home care services are available in 77 percent of communities, up from 71 percent five ago. And educational and volunteer opportunities for seniors are available in more places. 
But with governments reeling from slashed budgets, subsidized senior housing is harder to find (available in 63 percent of communities now, down from 70 percent), and property tax relief for seniors with limited incomes has fallen. Seventy-two percent of governments offered these breaks five years ago, compared to 54 percent now. 
And what does that word "available" actually mean? All this really tells us, the analysts acknowledged, was that in these communities someone is providing some of these services to some proportion of the older population. It doesn't tell us that there's enough at-home care, for example, or that it's affordable or of good quality. Or whether most seniors who need meals on wheels can get daily deliveries. Moreover, this so-called availability varies widely by location and community size. 
Cities are more apt to provide services than rural areas. And the report offers further evidence that we should all move to the Pacific Northwest, which leads the way in any number of programs and services for old people.
Readers here -- fond of pointing out that keeping unsafe older drivers off the road is a useless strategy if public transportation can't substitute for private vehicles -- will be happy to know that communities are paying more attention to transportation as an issue. But transportation programs haven't developed in more locations. "How the heck will we get around?" asked the appealingly blunt Kathi Greenlee, assistant secretary for aging, as she helped to unveil the new report. She called this one of the most challenging issues governments face: "We will get stuck at home without transportation."
It sounds to me like local governments get a C-, to be generous, in preparing for this seismic change. Exercise classes and volunteer opportunities matter, but housing, long-term care at home, effective transportation -- these cost real money, a scarce commodity in today's cities and towns. 
If the economy has truly rebounded in five years, "The Maturing of America" Part Three may tell a happier story.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (92%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (92%); AGING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); TRENDS (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); MEALS ON WHEELS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (76%); BUDGETS (75%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); HURRICANES (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); VOLUNTEERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); TAX RELIEF (50%) Elderly; News & Research

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF AREA AGENCIES ON AGING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



110 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Stay Away From Our Pay, Private Equity Tells Washington

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: An industry group argues that restrictions on bonuses should not apply to private equity firms because their pay structure provides protection against inappropriate risk-taking. 

 BODY:
The private equity industry has a knack for transforming losing companies into surprising success stories.
Now, some private equity firms are hoping to work their turnaround magic on a series of new regulations facing their own business. 
The industry, for instance, is seeking exemptions from proposed caps on lavish pay packages, according to regulatory filings. 
In March, the Securities and Exchange Commission unveiled a plan to crack down on the kind of big bonuses that encouraged excessive risk-taking before the financial crisis. The proposed rules, which are expected to be completed over the next few months, are aimed at big banks and brokerage firms that nearly toppled in 2008. But technically, the proposal applies to any financial firm with more than $1 billion in assets, sweeping up private equity firms, too. 
The turnaround artists, in a letter this week to the S.E.C., said the rules need not apply to them because their pay structure "already provides all the protection against the inappropriate risk-taking and compensation abuses."
Their argument centers on the belief that, while private equity firms may dole out some hefty paychecks, they pale in comparison to bonuses at big banks.
At private equity shops, compensation agreements "are the result of direct and detailed negotiations with sophisticated third-party stakeholders," Douglas Lowenstein, president of the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, said in the letter to regulators. Wall Street pay packages, on the other hand, "traditionally have been put into place with no input from shareholders," the letter said. 
Mr. Lowenstein's missive is the latest move in the industry's lobbying campaign surrounding the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law, which imposed sweeping new oversight of the private equity industry. 
In 2007 Mr. Lowenstein, a former newspaper reporter and Congressional staffer, created the private equity council, whose members include such buyout giants as the Blackstone Group, the Carlyle Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company.
The council has emerged in recent months as the face of the lobbying campaign, spending nearly $700,000 to influence Congress, the S.E.C. and the Federal Reserve. The council also tapped the influential lobbying firm of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld to assist the effort, according to lobbying disclosure documents. 
Washington, for the most part, is new territory for the industry and its brethren in the asset management world. Private equity funds, which typically pool capital to buyout troubled companies or invest in real estate and other ventures, have historically operated outside of Washington's view. 
But the Dodd-Frank Act is sure to change that. 
The government's newly created Financial Stability Oversight Council is identifying nonbank financial firms that pose a systemic risk to the economy. These firms will face greater scrutiny and regulation from the Federal Reserve.
Private equity firms are advising regulators to look elsewhere for such firms. 
"We believe that private equity firms and private equity funds, as a class and individually, do not present systemic risk concerns," the letter from the private equity council said. 
The private equity industry, according to the private equity council, is not interconnected with other big financial players and does not use much leverage at the fund level, two crucial marks of a systemically significant firm. 
The potential crackdown on executive compensation also troubles the private equity industry. The new proposal would for the first time require firms with more than $1 billion to file detailed accounts of their incentive-based compensation with the S.E.C., which could then ban any awards it finds "excessive." Financial firms that have $50 billion or more in assets would have to defer half of their executive bonuses for three years. 
The council's letter noted that private equity fund executives already earn most of their money through carried interest -- deferred profits that are tied to the performance of the fund. When funds fail, bonuses are often clawed back.
In case the S.E.C. is not convinced, the council has a backup plan: persuade regulators to exempt certain payments from the rules. 
The private equity council said it "respectfully requests that carried interest arrangements at private equity firms and funds also be explicitly excluded from the definition of incentive-based compensation."
Private Equity Council's Letter on Executive Pay

        
S.E.C. Proposes Crackdown on Wall Street Bonuses
        
Ex-Financial Regulators Get Set to Lobby Agencies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); LOBBYING (86%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); WRITERS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (50%) Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld; Blackstone Group; Carlyle Group; Dodd-Frank Act; Executive Compensation; Federal Reserve; Financial Stability Oversight Council; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts; Private Equity Growth Capital Council; Securities and Exchange Commission; Wall Street Pay; Lowenstein, Douglas; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A; Private Equity; Blackstone Group, The; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; Blackstone Group, The|BX|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Wealth

COMPANY: AKIN GUMP STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP (84%); KKR & CO LP (64%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%) Blackstone Group, The; Carlyle Group; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (64%); BX (NYSE) (58%); CG (NASDAQ) (53%) Blackstone Group, The; BX; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: Lowenstein, Douglas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



111 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Ex-SAC Capital Trader Aided Insider Inquiry

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Noah Freeman, who has confessed to insider trading, said he had provided investigators with names of more than a dozen individuals who might have also committed crimes. 

 BODY:
A former portfolio manager at the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors testified in federal court on Friday that he had provided investigators with the names of more than a dozen individuals when he confessed to insider trading.
Noah Freeman, the former portfolio manager, told a jury that he sat down with law-enforcement officials at the end of last year and told them about crimes that he and others had committed.
"How many people did you tell the government about?" asked Avi Weitzman, a federal prosecutor.
"At least, in passing, more than a dozen," responded Mr. Freeman, 35, a tall, athletic-looking Harvard College graduate. He did not identify whom he had discussed with the government.
He did tell the jury that trading on illegal stock tips at Sonar Capital, the hedge fund he worked at before joining SAC, was part of Sonar's business model.
Mr. Freeman took the witness stand in Federal District Court in Manhattan in the trial of Winifred Jiau, a former consultant at a so-called expert network firm, which connect money managers with industry experts, including public company employees, for a fee.
Federal prosecutors have charged Ms. Jiau with knowingly facilitating the passing of secret information about technology businesses to hedge fund traders.
One of those traders was Mr. Freeman, a main government witness in its case against Ms. Jiau.
His testimony came about six months after two F.B.I. agents stopped him in the parking lot of the Winsor School, an elite private school in Boston, and played a tape recording of him, Ms. Jiau and another hedge fund manager exchanging confidential information.
Mr. Freeman left SAC in January 2010, and the hedge fund industry altogether, and was teaching an advanced economics course at the school. He no longer teaches there.
Mr. Freeman, who has pleaded guilty, faces up to 25 years in prison. But by helping the government gather evidence, he hopes to obtain a lesser sentence. Mr. Freeman's cooperation helped federal prosecutors bring criminal charges against not only Ms. Jiau, but also three other hedge fund employees who were part of Mr. Freeman's insider trading ring. The hedge fund employees - Donald Longueuil, formerly of SAC Capital; Samir Barai of Barai Capital Management; and Jason Pflaum, a colleague of Mr. Barai - have all pleaded guilty. Dressed in a dark suit, white shirt and red Hermes tie, Mr. Freeman spent only a little more than an hour on the witness stand before Judge Jed S. Rakoff dismissed the jury until Monday.
In that short time, he laid out for the jury his 10-year career. After a stint as a consultant at Bain & Company, he said he joined Brookside Capital, the hedge fund arm of Bain Capital Partners, the Boston private equity firm. From there he moved to Sonar Capital, also a Boston hedge fund, where he said he spent three-and-a-half years.
Mr. Freeman said that he had no trading authority at Sonar but worked as an analyst gathering research and providing investment ideas to Neil Druker, the head of the fund. He said that trading on inside information at Sonar "was regularly employed as part of our business model."
Neither Sonar nor Mr. Druker has not been charged with any wrongdoing. Mark Hyland, a lawyer for Sonar, said: "Freeman turned out to be a rogue, dishonest employee who acted without authority and deceived Sonar Capital. Freeman now continues his pattern of deception by falsely seeking to implicate others at Sonar in the hopes of obtaining a lighter sentence for his own criminal acts."
It was at Sonar that Mr. Freeman said he had met Ms. Jiau. He testified that Ms. Jiau had provided him with the "complete financials" for the technology companies Marvell Technology Group and Nvidia, before they were publicly announced. The information, he said, was "extremely" helpful.
He left Sonar in early 2008 to start the Boston office for SAC, the giant Stamford, Conn.-based hedge fund run by the billionaire investor Steven A. Cohen. Mr. Freeman said that at SAC he had day-to-day trading authority and at his peak oversaw about $300 million of the fund's money.
His testimony about his work at SAC was cut short when the trial broke for the day.
SAC has not been charged. A spokesman for the firm previously said Mr. Cohen had been "outraged" by Mr. Freeman and Mr. Longueil's conduct.
To defuse a potential line of questioning on cross-examination, Mr. Weitzman, the prosecutor, asked Mr. Freeman about his past drug use.
He said he had smoked marijuana regularly for 10 years but stopped in late 2008. He also conceded using mushrooms once, in spring 2009.
"Only once," he reiterated. "It was a terrible experience."

        
A Tangle of Details Emerge in an Insider Trading Case
        
New Insider Trading Trial Set to Begin

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (92%); HEDGE FUNDS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (87%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); SENTENCING (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); JUDGES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Avi Weitzman; Barai Capital Management; Donald Longueuil; expert networks; Insider Trading; Jason Pflaum; Marvell Technology; Neil Druker; Noah Freeman; Nvidia; SAC Capital Advisors; Samir Barai; Sonar Capital; Winifred Jiau; Jiau, Winifred; Hedge Funds; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BAIN & CO (60%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%) SAC Capital Advisors

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: Jiau, Winifred

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



112 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Authorities Poised to Pile on Goldman Over Crisis

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: Goldman Sachs faces a new round of inquiries about its dealings as the Manhattan district attorney enters the picture, armed with New York's Martin Act. 

 BODY:
The kids in my old neighborhood used to play a game called "dogpile," in which someone would yell out a name and everyone would jump on top of that person until he fell to the ground. Goldman Sachs may well feel like it is in a similar situation after the firm reportedly received a broad subpoena from the Manhattan district attorney's for documents about its mortgage-related transactions leading up to the financial crises in 2008. 
As DealBook noted, the subpoena seeks information related to transactions discussed in a 650-page report by the Senate Permanent Investigations Subcommittee on the role of Wall Street in the financial crisis. It is not clear whether the Manhattan district attorney's office is looking at anything new, or simply going over the same transactions described in the report. A number of those deals have also been scrutinized by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission over the last two years. 
Add in the Justice Department, which is also reported to be readying subpoenas as part of a criminal investigation based on the subcommittee report, and Goldman could wind up being investigated by just about every major law enforcement authority in the country.
The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., has a significant weapon at his disposal that is not available to the S.E.C. and the Justice Department: New York State's Martin Act. Mr. Vance noted in a speech in January to the New York City Bar Association that "the Martin Act has never been more relevant."
The law was adopted in 1921, well before the federal securities laws were enacted during the New Deal, and it is among the broadest antifraud provisions in the country. It prohibits "any fraud, deception, concealment, suppression, false pretense or fictitious or pretended purchase or sale" of a security. What constitutes fraud has been interpreted by the New York courts to cover much more than the conventional theft offense. In People v. Federated Radio Corp., a 1926 decision, the New York Court of Appeals said that the term "fraud" should "be given a wide meaning so as to include all acts, although not originating in any actual evil design or contrivance to perpetrate fraud or injury upon others, which do by their tendency to deceive or mislead the purchasing public come within the purpose of the law." The court also noted that the statute prohibited "all deceitful practices contrary to the plain rules of common decency" -- a standard that could give everyone on Wall Street pause.
Most importantly, for a civil or criminal misdemeanor charge for violating the Martin Act, the prosecutor would only have to prove the defendant acted negligently. The main federal securities fraud provisions,  10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5, require proof of scienter, which means an intent to defraud or at least recklessness. This lower threshold for the Martin Act means that questionable practices that might not be considered to be intentionally misleading could still be the basis for a state charge.
Goldman settled an S.E.C. suit in 2010 related to its sale of a collateralized debt obligation called Abacus by paying $550 million, and conceded that its marketing materials for the security "contained incomplete information." An admission like that could well establish negligence for a state proceeding under the Martin Act, if the Manhattan district attorney decides to pursue a case.
Another transaction discussed in the subcommittee's report concerned something call "Hudson-1," a synthetic C.D.O. tied to mortgage-backed securities. Goldman's marketing materials stated that the firm's interests were "aligned" with the purchasers because it had an equity investment in the security. According to the report, however, Goldman actually had a short position in $2 billion worth of mortgage-backed securities involved in Hudson-1, compared with a $6 million equity position. That calls into question whether its statement about being "aligned" with the purchasers was misleading.
Proving a federal criminal securities fraud violation would be difficult because the government would have to prove that Goldman acted "willfully" to defraud the Hudson-1 purchasers. Under the Martin Act, however, the statement about "aligned" interests might be "contrary to the plain rules of common decency" to establish a violation, without having to show any fraudulent intent.
An interesting question is whether the Justice Department or Manhattan district attorney's office will look at any Goldman transactions beyond those discussed in the Senate subcommittee report. The firm's records have been scrutinized pretty thoroughly already, and no "smoking gun" document has emerged to this point, so a subpoena that covers the same ground may not result in anything further coming to light.
A recent article in The New York Times noted that only one Goldman employee, Fabrice Tourre, has been accused of violating the securities laws in connection with the Abacus C.D.O., and he held a fairly low-level position in the firm. Even if Goldman might be accused of violating the Martin Act or the federal securities laws, which is still a long way off, it remains to be seen whether any individuals can be shown to be responsible for the firm's conduct.
As I discussed in an earlier post, a subpoena does not mean charges are likely to be filed against the firm. A subpoena from the Manhattan district attorney's office only indicates that it will look further into Goldman's conduct to see if there were any violations. The Martin Act offers another potential avenue to scrutinize Goldman's conduct during the financial crisis.
But it sure seems as if someone yelled "dogpile on Goldman!"

        
What a Criminal Inquiry Portends for Goldman
        
What's Next for Goldman Sachs?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); SUBPOENAS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); US SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); LARCENY & THEFT (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); MISDEMEANORS (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); NEGLIGENCE (67%); APPEALS COURTS (61%); APPEALS (50%) Abacus; Cyrus R. Vance Jr.; Fabrice Tourre; Financial Crisis; Goldman Sachs; Justice Department; Martin Act; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Vance, Cyrus R Jr; Subpoenas; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (74%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (57%) Vance, Cyrus R Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



113 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2389 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES 
A Trader, an F.B.I. Witness, and Then a Suicide | In a Manhattan courtroom last week, federal prosecutors played for a jury a secretly recorded telephone conversation between two Wall Street traders exchanging stock tips.

Two days later, one of those traders, Ephraim G. Karpel, hanged himself in his Fifth Avenue office, according to a law enforcement official. 

"The government's investigation changed his life forever and was his unraveling," Fran Karpel, his wife, said in a telephone interview from her home in Livingston, N.J. "He sank deeper and deeper into a hole and couldn't see a way out."
DealBook
Groupon Plans I.P.O. With $30 Billion Valuation | As Groupon would say, the deal is on.

The social buying site on Thursday filed to go public, a hotly anticipated debut that could raise $3 billion, according to two people close to the company who were not authorized to speak publicly. At that level, the company would be worth roughly $30 billion, surpassing the value of Google at its initial public offering.

Groupon is part of an elite club of social Internet companies that is fanning investor ardor for the next generation of technology giants. 
DealBook
The Groupon I.P.O.: What Is Adjusted CSOI? | With its I.P.O. filing, Groupon has rolled out an unusual way of measuring its income: an unwieldy term known as "adjusted CSOI."
DealBook
Groupon Chief to Make $575 in 2011 | Groupon's I.P.O. filing reveals yet another unusual quirk of its chief executive, Andrew D. Mason: He'll only receive $575 in base salary this year.
DealBook
Hong Kong Looks to Regain Footing as I.P.O. Leader | The sudden burst of activity on the Hong Kong stock market shows that recent worries over China's economic slowdown is fading as investors focus on Asia.
DealBook
DEAL NOTES
The Yacht Metric | A strong Australian dollar, Chinese demand and the commodities boom have filled the boathouses and berths of Australia's wealthy, who now own three times as many superyachts - vessels of 98 feet or more - as they did just five years ago. One executive in the yacht business told Bloomberg News that they're like "kids in a candy shop."
BLOOMBERG
Talent Offered a Painfully Cool Prize | In the latest salvo in the competition wars for tech recruits, Hipster, the local question-and-answer start-up backed by Google Ventures and Lightbank, is offering a prize to attract new talent, a hipster kit.

New employees will get $10,000, a year's supply of Pabst Blue Ribbon, Buddy Holly glasses, skinny jeans and a mustache grooming services.
BITS | NEWS RELEASE
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Fiat to Buy Out U.S. Interest in Chrysler | The Treasury Department said Thursday that it would sell its remaining 6 percent stake in Chrysler to Fiat for $500 million, as the government wraps up its $12.5 billion relief package for the Detroit carmaker, The New York Times reports.
DealBook
Molson and Modelo Said to Eye Foster's | Molson Coors and Modelo of Mexico are said to be considering a joint bid for Foster's, the Australian beer brewer, the latest of many deal rumors swirling around the company. Last year, SABMiller and Asahi of Japan were both reported to be interested in buying Foster's beer business. 

 Foster's shares rose 0.15 Australian dollars, or 3.5 percent, to 4.43 Australian dollars in Sydney on Friday, giving it a market capitalization of 8.6 billion Australian dollars.
BLOOMBERG | AUSTRALIAN
News Corp.'s BSkyB Bid Said to Be Given Go-Ahead | With antitrust issues apparently cleared, or at least bypassed, it seems Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation is finally set to take full control of British Sky Broadcasting a year after first approaching the company in June 2010, The Financial Times said, citing sources.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Japan Should Slow Overseas Acquisitions | As a reaction to the March earthquake and fears of a contracting domestic market, Japanese companies are increasingly looking abroad to make acquisitions. But Reuters Breakingviews says this practice is a mistake.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Jones Group Tries Kurt Geiger On for Size | The owner of Nine West has bought the British retailer from Graphite Capital in a $350 million deal that could help Kurt Geiger gain a foothold in the United States.
INDEPENDENT | REUTERS
Mexichem Poised for Deals | The Mexican chemicals company told Bloomberg News that it was arranging $750 million in financing and planned to spend $3 billion on growth in the coming years. Mexichem's chief executive, Rafael Davalos, told the news service the company was preparing for a "large potential acquisition."
BLOOMBERG
Riversdale Signs $200 Million Commodities Deal | The Australian-listed mining company that is being bought by Rio Tinto has signed a $200 million contract with Trafigura to sell all the thermal coal produced from its Mozambique assets to the commodities trader.
AUSTRALIAN
Borders in Talks With Several Potential Buyers | A lawyer for Borders, which is reportedly in deal talks with the Gores Group, said Thursday that he expected to file a motion in two to four weeks about selling the company, confirming that the bookseller is in talks with several possible buyers, The Associated Press reported.
ASSOCIATED PRESS | DEALBOOK
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Goldman Receives Subpoena Over Financial Crisis | An inquiry by the Manhattan district attorney's office is linked to a Senate panel report that found that the firm had "misled" its clients.
DealBook | Post a Comment
Wavering Political Support for Banks May Lead to Downgrades | Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo are facing a debt downgrade by Moody's in light of the American political establishment's harder line on offering a fiscal safety net for the country's biggest banks.
REUTERS
Nomura Chops Compensation as Profit Slides | The Japanese brokerage firm and investment bank that bought Lehman's international operations has cut the remuneration of its chief executive and top management by 38 percent because of a steep profit decline. Net income dropped 58 percent to 28.7 billion yen, or $355 million, the bank said in its annual report to shareholders.
BLOOMBERG | NEWS RELEASE
Goldman May Be Set to Sell Mortgage Serving Unit | Goldman Sachs's troubled Litton Loan Servicing is on the brink of being sold to a rival, Ocwen Financial, perhaps for as much as $500 million, people familiar with the matter told The Financial Times, though they cautioned that it was far from a done deal.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Job-Cutting Trend at British Banks | In the three years since the financial crisis, the top British banks - including the bailed-out lenders Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds - have cut more than 103,000 jobs, a third of them in Britain, according to Bloomberg data. And it doesn't look like they're finished.
BLOOMBERG
Libya's Rampant Investing Revealed | Invade a country and it all starts to come out. According to The Financial Times, new documents show the Libyan Investment Authority as one of the biggest sovereign investors in Societe Generale, in a $1 billion bet made on the bank's shares in March 2008 that subsequently lost 72 percent of its value. 

 The L.I.A. also got into the hedge fund industry, with more than $2 billion of investments sunk into firms in London and New York since sanctions were lifted in 2003.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Does Barclays See a Good Deal in Spain? | There may be something to the rumors that Barclays is considering the acquisition of one of Spain's cajas, or savings banks, The Financial Times suggests, citing Bob Diamond's apparent charm offensive with members of the Spanish establishment.
FINANCIAL TIMES
European Stress Tests Delayed | The European Banking Authority may take another month to publish the results of its stress tests after being forced to go back to some banks whose figures appeared too rosy, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Analyst Says BofA Could Sell C.C.B. Stake | A sale of Bank of America's $21 billion stake in China Construction Bank could be just the thing to cover the lender's rising costs linked to mortgage and foreclosure disputes, Keith Horowitz of Citigroup wrote Thursday in a note.
BLOOMBERG
PRIVATE EQUITY 
BofA Spins Off Last Large P.E. Fund | The newly independent $6 billion North Cove Partners will oversee private equity investments for Bank of America and other investors.
REUTERS | NEWS RELEASE
K.K.R. Ventures Into Wind Energy | Kohlberg Kravis Roberts is forming a $342 million joint venture with the Italian power company Sorgenia in what stands as the private equity firm's first foray into European renewables.
FINANCIAL TIMES
For Blackstone, the Hits Keep Coming | The Blackstone Group - and the private equity industry at large - continued to take heat Thursday for the financial woes of Southern Cross, the British nursing home operator that Blackstone owned for two years before its I.P.O. five years ago. 

 GMB, a campaigning trade union in Britain, held a protest against the American buyout shop, with its members dressed like robbers. A spokesman told The Telegraph: "Private equity model is an inappropriate model of ownership for a company that is responsible for looking after 31,000 elderly people." 
TELEGRAPH | FT ALPHAVILLE | DEALBOOK
HEDGE FUNDS 
SAC Is Still Making Hay | Despite the legal storm clouds hovering over SAC Capital, the hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, it appears to be running full-steam ahead. The firm's flagship fund is up 9 percent so far this year, compared with an average drop of 7 percent for its rivals, and SAC has amassed another $2 billion in assets under management, though some of that comes from Mr. Cohen himself, CNBC reports.
CNBC | DEALBOOK
Arden Takes Control of Robeco-Sage | Robeco Group is handing over its $1.3 billion hedge fund of funds business to Arden Asset Management in return for a share of the revenue over the next decade, Pensions & Investments reported.
PENSIONS & INVESTMENTS | BLOOMBERG
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Pandora Increases Size of Its Planned I.P.O. | Pandora Media took another step toward an initial public offering, saying that it planned to price its shares at $7 to $9 and that it could raise as much as $141.6 million.
DealBook
MGM China Rises in Debut | Shares of the Macau casino operator rose 6 percent on their opening day to 16.26 Hong Kong dollars before closing at 15.62 dollars, still above where the company priced its initial public offering.
BLOOMBERG | REUTERS
Resourcehouse Said to Plan Smaller I.P.O. | The Australian coal company is planning to cut its Hong Kong offering by about a third to $2.3 billion, according to The Australian.
AUSTRALIAN
Italian Fashion Company to Post Big Profit | Prada is set to report profit of more than $215.3 million for the first six months of the year, as it readies itself for its initial public offering in Hong Kong.
REUTERS
To Beat The Street, Investors Have to Get In at the I.P.O. | Almost all the gains investors have posted over the market from the biggest 100 initial public offerings each year for last five years came on the first day of trading, Thomson Reuters data showed. After that, there's little to be made.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
'Well-Known Scam Artist' Has No Claims on Facebook | Paul Ceglia is not entitled to any stake whatsoever in Facebook, according to a court filing by the social network that called the documents Mr. Ceglia is basing his case around an example of "amateurish forgery."
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Accel and Index Lead $5.7 Million Round for UberMedia | Founded by the entrepreneur Bill Gross, the start-up Ubermedia, which makes apps for Twitter, has been competing with the microblogger on a number of levels, making its latest round a surprise for some industry observers.
VENTUREBEAT | BUSINESSWEEK
V.C.'s Pony Up for General Compression | A start-up that develops technology for using compressed air for energy storage has raised $20.39 million in its latest round of financing.
GIGAOM
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Insider Trial Opens With Focus on Expert Networks | Winifred Jiau is accused of trafficking in nonpublic information, but was it material to companies? The prosecution and the defense laid out their cases.
DealBook
Democrats Voice Support for Elizabeth Warren | A group of 89 Democrats urged President Obama to appoint Elizabeth Warren to lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, further escalating a bitter partisan battle.
DealBook
Widening Inquiry Into Insider Trades at F.D.A. | A chemist at the Food and Drug Administration, and his son, have already been charged with insider trading. Now the Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission are looking into whether other government employees were involved, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wisconsin's Controversial Bond Issuer | The Public Finance Authority of Wisconsin has a tightening grip on the municipal-bond market, as it allows out-of-state nonprofit groups and companies to raise money in offerings deemed too risky at home.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Guilty Plea From Former Madoff Employee Expected | Eric Lipkin was the payroll manager at Bernard L. Madoff's investment firm, and on Monday he is expected to plead guilty to six charges that he was complicit in the master fraudster's scheme, Reuters said, citing court papers.
REUTERS
S.E.C. Investigates Auditors of Chinese Firms | The securities regulator is investigating auditors linked to accounting and disclosure irregularities at Chinese companies that have listed in the United States through so-called reverse mergers, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Firms May Be Forced to Change Their Auditors | Companies traded on the public markets may be forced to rotate their audit firms every few years, James R. Doty, chairman of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, suggested, citing a lack of independence between auditors and their clients.
NEW YORK TIMES
For American Lawyers, Outsourcing Firms Offer Jobs at Home | Young American lawyers who have seen their job prospects and salaries eroded by cutbacks and a lower-tiered pay system are finding opportunities in their own backyard coming from a unusual quarter: outsourcing firms.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SUICIDE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); MERGERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GROUP BUYING (74%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (90%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); HONG KONG (90%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



114 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2388 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES 
A Trader, an F.B.I. Witness, and Then a Suicide | In a Manhattan courtroom last week, federal prosecutors played for a jury a secretly recorded telephone conversation between two Wall Street traders exchanging stock tips.

Two days later, one of those traders, Ephraim G. Karpel, hanged himself in his Fifth Avenue office, according to a law enforcement official. 

"The government's investigation changed his life forever and was his unraveling," Fran Karpel, his wife, said in a telephone interview from her home in Livingston, N.J. "He sank deeper and deeper into a hole and couldn't see a way out."
DealBook
Groupon Plans I.P.O. With $30 Billion Valuation | As Groupon would say, the deal is on.

The social buying site on Thursday filed to go public, a hotly anticipated debut that could raise $3 billion, according to two people close to the company who were not authorized to speak publicly. At that level, the company would be worth roughly $30 billion, surpassing the value of Google at its initial public offering.

Groupon is part of an elite club of social Internet companies that is fanning investor ardor for the next generation of technology giants. 
DealBook
The Groupon I.P.O.: What Is Adjusted CSOI? | With its I.P.O. filing, Groupon has rolled out an unusual way of measuring its income: an unwieldy term known as "adjusted CSOI."
DealBook
Groupon Chief to Make $575 in 2011 | Groupon's I.P.O. filing reveals yet another unusual quirk of its chief executive, Andrew D. Mason: He'll only receive $575 in base salary this year.
DealBook
Hong Kong Looks to Regain Footing as I.P.O. Leader | The sudden burst of activity on the Hong Kong stock market shows that recent worries over China's economic slowdown is fading as investors focus on Asia.
DealBook
DEAL NOTES
The Yacht Metric | A strong Australian dollar, Chinese demand and the commodities boom have filled the boathouses and berths of Australia's wealthy, who now own three times as many superyachts - vessels of 98 feet or more - as they did just five years ago. One executive in the yacht business told Bloomberg News that they're like "kids in a candy shop."
BLOOMBERG
Talent Offered a Painfully Cool Prize | In the latest salvo in the competition wars for tech recruits, Hipster, the local question-and-answer start-up backed by Google Ventures and Lightbank, is offering a prize to attract new talent, a hipster kit.

New employees will get $10,000, a year's supply of Pabst Blue Ribbon, Buddy Holly glasses, skinny jeans and a mustache grooming services.
BITS | NEWS RELEASE
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Fiat to Buy Out U.S. Interest in Chrysler | The Treasury Department said Thursday that it would sell its remaining 6 percent stake in Chrysler to Fiat for $500 million, as the government wraps up its $12.5 billion relief package for the Detroit carmaker, The New York Times reports.
DealBook
Molson and Modelo Said to Eye Foster's | Molson Coors and Modelo of Mexico are said to be considering a joint bid for Foster's, the Australian beer brewer, the latest of many deal rumors swirling around the company. Last year, SABMiller and Asahi of Japan were both reported to be interested in buying Foster's beer business. 

 Foster's shares rose 0.15 Australian dollars, or 3.5 percent, to 4.43 Australian dollars in Sydney on Friday, giving it a market capitalization of 8.6 billion Australian dollars.
BLOOMBERG | AUSTRALIAN
News Corp.'s BSkyB Bid Said to Be Given Go-Ahead | With antitrust issues apparently cleared, or at least bypassed, it seems Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation is finally set to take full control of British Sky Broadcasting a year after first approaching the company in June 2010, The Financial Times said, citing sources.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Japan Should Slow Overseas Acquisitions | As a reaction to the March earthquake and fears of a contracting domestic market, Japanese companies are increasingly looking abroad to make acquisitions. But Reuters Breakingviews says this practice is a mistake.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Jones Group Tries Kurt Geiger On for Size | The owner of Nine West has bought the British retailer from Graphite Capital in a $350 million deal that could help Kurt Geiger gain a foothold in the United States.
INDEPENDENT | REUTERS
Mexichem Poised for Deals | The Mexican chemicals company told Bloomberg News that it was arranging $750 million in financing and planned to spend $3 billion on growth in the coming years. Mexichem's chief executive, Rafael Davalos, told the news service the company was preparing for a "large potential acquisition."
BLOOMBERG
Riversdale Signs $200 Million Commodities Deal | The Australian-listed mining company that is being bought by Rio Tinto has signed a $200 million contract with Trafigura to sell all the thermal coal produced from its Mozambique assets to the commodities trader.
AUSTRALIAN
Borders in Talks With Several Potential Buyers | A lawyer for Borders, which is reportedly in deal talks with the Gores Group, said Thursday that he expected to file a motion in two to four weeks about selling the company, confirming that the bookseller is in talks with several possible buyers, The Associated Press reported.
ASSOCIATED PRESS | DEALBOOK
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Goldman Receives Subpoena Over Financial Crisis | An inquiry by the Manhattan district attorney's office is linked to a Senate panel report that found that the firm had "misled" its clients.
DealBookPost a Comment
Wavering Political Support for Banks May Lead to Downgrades | Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo are facing a debt downgrade by Moody's in light of the American political establishment's harder line on offering a fiscal safety net for the country's biggest banks.
REUTERS
Nomura Chops Compensation as Profit Slides | The Japanese brokerage firm and investment bank that bought Lehman's international operations has cut the remuneration of its chief executive and top management by 38 percent because of a steep profit decline. Net income dropped 58 percent to 28.7 billion yen, or $355 million, the bank said in its annual report to shareholders.
BLOOMBERG | NEWS RELEASE
Goldman May Be Set to Sell Mortgage Serving Unit | Goldman Sachs's troubled Litton Loan Servicing is on the brink of being sold to a rival, Ocwen Financial, perhaps for as much as $500 million, people familiar with the matter told The Financial Times, though they cautioned that it was far from a done deal.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Job-Cutting Trend at British Banks | In the three years since the financial crisis, the top British banks - including the bailed-out lenders Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds - have cut more than 103,000 jobs, a third of them in Britain, according to Bloomberg data. And it doesn't look like they're finished.
BLOOMBERG
Libya's Rampant Investing Revealed | Invade a country and it all starts to come out. According to The Financial Times, new documents show the Libyan Investment Authority as one of the biggest sovereign investors in Societe Generale, in a $1 billion bet made on the bank's shares in March 2008 that subsequently lost 72 percent of its value. 

 The L.I.A. also got into the hedge fund industry, with more than $2 billion of investments sunk into firms in London and New York since sanctions were lifted in 2003.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Does Barclays See a Good Deal in Spain? | There may be something to the rumors that Barclays is considering the acquisition of one of Spain's cajas, or savings banks, The Financial Times suggests, citing Bob Diamond's apparent charm offensive with members of the Spanish establishment.
FINANCIAL TIMES
European Stress Tests Delayed | The European Banking Authority may take another month to publish the results of its stress tests after being forced to go back to some banks whose figures appeared too rosy, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Analyst Says BofA Could Sell C.C.B. Stake | A sale of Bank of America's $21 billion stake in China Construction Bank could be just the thing to cover the lender's rising costs linked to mortgage and foreclosure disputes, Keith Horowitz of Citigroup wrote Thursday in a note.
BLOOMBERG
PRIVATE EQUITY 
BofA Spins Off Last Large P.E. Fund | The newly independent $6 billion North Cove Partners will oversee private equity investments for Bank of America and other investors.
REUTERSNEWS RELEASE
K.K.R. Ventures Into Wind Energy | Kohlberg Kravis Roberts is forming a $342 million joint venture with the Italian power company Sorgenia in what stands as the private equity firm's first foray into European renewables.
FINANCIAL TIMES
For Blackstone, the Hits Keep Coming | The Blackstone Group - and the private equity industry at large - continued to take heat Thursday for the financial woes of Southern Cross, the British nursing home operator that Blackstone owned for two years before its I.P.O. five years ago. 

 GMB, a campaigning trade union in Britain, held a protest against the American buyout shop, with its members dressed like robbers. A spokesman told The Telegraph: "Private equity model is an inappropriate model of ownership for a company that is responsible for looking after 31,000 elderly people." 
TELEGRAPH | FT ALPHAVILLE | DEALBOOK
HEDGE FUNDS 
SAC Is Still Making Hay | Despite the legal storm clouds hovering over SAC Capital, the hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, it appears to be running full-steam ahead. The firm's flagship fund is up 9 percent so far this year, compared with an average drop of 7 percent for its rivals, and SAC has amassed another $2 billion in assets under management, though some of that comes from Mr. Cohen himself, CNBC reports.
CNBC | DEALBOOK
Arden Takes Control of Robeco-Sage | Robeco Group is handing over its $1.3 billion hedge fund of funds business to Arden Asset Management in return for a share of the revenue over the next decade, Pensions & Investments reported.
PENSIONS & INVESTMENTS | BLOOMBERG
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Pandora Increases Size of Its Planned I.P.O. | Pandora Media took another step toward an initial public offering, saying that it planned to price its shares at $7 to $9 and that it could raise as much as $141.6 million.
DealBook
MGM China Rises in Debut | Shares of the Macau casino operator rose 6 percent on their opening day to 16.26 Hong Kong dollars before closing at 15.62 dollars, still above where the company priced its initial public offering.
BLOOMBERG | REUTERS
Resourcehouse Said to Plan Smaller I.P.O. | The Australian coal company is planning to cut its Hong Kong offering by about a third to $2.3 billion, according to The Australian.
AUSTRALIAN
Italian Fashion Company to Post Big Profit | Prada is set to report profit of more than $215.3 million for the first six months of the year, as it readies itself for its initial public offering in Hong Kong.
REUTERS
To Beat The Street, Investors Have to Get In at the I.P.O. | Almost all the gains investors have posted over the market from the biggest 100 initial public offerings each year for last five years came on the first day of trading, Thomson Reuters data showed. After that, there's little to be made.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
'Well-Known Scam Artist' Has No Claims on Facebook | Paul Ceglia is not entitled to any stake whatsoever in Facebook, according to a court filing by the social network that called the documents Mr. Ceglia is basing his case around an example of "amateurish forgery."
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Accel and Index Lead $5.7 Million Round for UberMedia | Founded by the entrepreneur Bill Gross, the start-up Ubermedia, which makes apps for Twitter, has been competing with the microblogger on a number of levels, making its latest round a surprise for some industry observers.
VENTUREBEAT | BUSINESSWEEK
V.C.'s Pony Up for General Compression | A start-up that develops technology for using compressed air for energy storage has raised $20.39 million in its latest round of financing.
GIGAOM
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Insider Trial Opens With Focus on Expert Networks | Winifred Jiau is accused of trafficking in nonpublic information, but was it material to companies? The prosecution and the defense laid out their cases.
DealBook
Democrats Voice Support for Elizabeth Warren | A group of 89 Democrats urged President Obama to appoint Elizabeth Warren to lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, further escalating a bitter partisan battle.
DealBook
Widening Inquiry Into Insider Trades at F.D.A. | A chemist at the Food and Drug Administration, and his son, have already been charged with insider trading. Now the Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission are looking into whether other government employees were involved, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wisconsin's Controversial Bond Issuer | The Public Finance Authority of Wisconsin has a tightening grip on the municipal-bond market, as it allows out-of-state nonprofit groups and companies to raise money in offerings deemed too risky at home.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Guilty Plea From Former Madoff Employee Expected | Eric Lipkin was the payroll manager at Bernard L. Madoff's investment firm, and on Monday he is expected to plead guilty to six charges that he was complicit in the master fraudster's scheme, Reuters said, citing court papers.
REUTERS
S.E.C. Investigates Auditors of Chinese Firms | The securities regulator is investigating auditors linked to accounting and disclosure irregularities at Chinese companies that have listed in the United States through so-called reverse mergers, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Firms May Be Forced to Change Their Auditors | Companies traded on the public markets may be forced to rotate their audit firms every few years, James R. Doty, chairman of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, suggested, citing a lack of independence between auditors and their clients.
NEW YORK TIMES
For American Lawyers, Outsourcing Firms Offer Jobs at Home | Young American lawyers who have seen their job prospects and salaries eroded by cutbacks and a lower-tiered pay system are finding opportunities in their own backyard coming from a unusual quarter: outsourcing firms.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SUICIDE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); MERGERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GROUP BUYING (74%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (90%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); HONG KONG (90%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



115 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Reaching Your Limit as a Business Owner

BYLINE: BARBARA TAYLOR


HIGHLIGHT: I knew things had to change. I also knew that there was something fundamentally wrong with my business: me. 

 BODY:
I remember the day I reached my limit with the retail coffee and espressobusiness that my husband and I started in 2003. When we started our little food service venture, it was supposed to be a fun project that would eventually run itself and act as an additional source of income for our household. But after three years, two locations and countless hours, it became evident that our plan was easier said than done.
I had felt the day coming. There are some things you just know about your business. We were fast asleep one cold, February morning in 2005 when Chris's cellphone rang at 4:15. It was the lead barista at our north location calling to say she wouldn't be able to work her shift. That gave one of us 15 minutes to jump out of bed, get dressed and fly into Bentonville, Ark., to open our flagship store in time for the morning rush. This was not the first time this had happened, but it ended up being a wake-up call in more ways than one. In my business-owner bones, I knew things had to change. I also knew that there was something fundamentally wrong with my business: me.
Many owners reach a point in the life of their businesses where they hit a wall, a point beyond which they are either unable or unwilling to go. "Somewhere around $3 million dollars of revenue, I went from being the driver of my business to the bottleneck," John Warrillow, author of "BuilttoSell:CreatingaBusinessThatCanThriveWithoutYou," wrote in a recent blogpost. "Each year we stood still, I grew more frustrated. I felt like I was trying to swim in a pair of jeans." 
Mr. Warrillow calls this phenomenon the Ceiling of Control, and he describes his book as a field guide to getting beyond it. "I had reached a ceiling beyond which I would never grow until I gave up control of our product and how we sold it," he wrote in the blog post. "Intellectually I knew I needed to revamp my business model, but emotionally I was tired. Part of me just wanted to lock the doors one night and walk away. In the end, I decided eight years of my life was too important to throw away, so I committed to putting in a few more years to scaling up and getting out."
Richard Trottier -- author of "MiddleMarketStrategies" and president of SundialPartners, an investment bank boutique in Sarasota, Fla. -- has done extensive research on the landscape of privately held businesses, grouping them by size and determining what prevents them from moving forward. Working with the University of South Florida's Center for Economic Development and using census data from 2007, Mr. Trottier found the following: There are roughly 27 million businesses in the United States but only about five million have employees. Of those five million, only about 300,000 have annual revenue in excess of $5 million.
"There's something stopping most businesses from growing," said Mr. Trottier, who has identified five walls that he says business owners must overcome to grow: 1) motivational, 2) operational, 3) capital, 4) market and 5) transfer. If you're a business owner and think you may have hit a wall, take heart. You're not alone. "Fully 95 percent of businesses never grow into the next category," Mr. Trottier said in a recent interview with TheDeal. His advice to business owners who have hit a wall is first to identify which wall it is.
In my case, I felt like a pinball bouncing off three of the walls Mr. Trottier describes. I was managing 16 food-service employees, which felt like more than enough for me. My least favorite management tasks - human resources -- were consuming the bulk of my time (operational wall). I knew I needed to scale the business, adding at least one more location to support hiring a full-time manager to take the burden off my husband and me. In short, growth was the answer to our problem, but it would require more money, most likely in the form of a Small Business Administration loan (capital wall), and I didn't want to take on either the headache of expanding the business or the worry of incurring debt (motivational wall). Like Mr. Warrillow, my husband and I chose to switch gears and devote the next year to selling our business.
According to Mr. Trottier, the motivational walls tend to be the toughest for business owners. "The cold hard fact is that most private business owners are not interested in growing their business," Mr. Trottier writes in his book. "Standing pat may appear attractive," he adds, "but being content with mere survival is a losing strategy."
Barbara Taylor is co-owner of a business brokerage, Synergy Business Services, in Bentonville, Ark. Here is her guide to selling a business.

        
Getting the Price You Want for Your Business

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); WRITERS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); CENSUS (50%) John Warrillow; Richard Trottier; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Small Business; Transaction

COMPANY: CENTER FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LAW (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (65%) ARKANSAS, USA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



116 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1808 words

HEADLINE: Just Drive, She Said

BYLINE: PETER CATAPANO


HIGHLIGHT: Do movements against male-dominated systems in Saudi Arabia, Italy and France signal a moment of progress for women?

 BODY:
Two Saudi activists get into a car ....
Wajiha Howeidar: Today there was a report in the Al-Riyadh newspaper. A sister took her brother to the hospital in her car.
Manal al-Sharif: Yes.
WH: A woman is not just for an emergency.
MS: I read it on Twitter today.
WH: A woman has the same right as a man to live her daily life.
MS: In dignity.
WH: And dignity. She doesn't need to degrade herself. ...
MS: ... Restrictions have reached to this extent - oh, my heart. Never mind. Things will change, God willing.
No punchline there. A video of a person driving a car and talking shouldn't be very interesting, but this one, below, from which the above exchange was translated, first posted on May 21, has attracted hundreds of thousands of views, sparked a women's rights campaign in Saudi Arabia (where women are prohibited from driving) and has become a sort of viral rallying point for human rights proponents both inside and outside the kingdom. It also landed the activist-driver, the 32-year-old Manal al-Sharif, in detention for more than a week. She has since been released, but her movement encouraging Saudi women to drive continues, with a social media campaign and protest-drive date of June 17. (Robert Mackey at The Lede has a good summary of recent events.)
At Okaz, an Arabic daily, Khalaf al-Harbi distilled the essence of a situation that seemed like something out of a Beckett play. He wrote (translated by ArabNews.com):
No other society in the world has encountered a similar situation because of the problem's simplicity. After putting the cart before the horse over the past many decades, we now do not know how to put the horse at its rightful place so that we can ride at a normal pace. We solved our problem by recruiting peasants from poor countries, who knew nothing about cars, to work here as drivers. The result is that even women carrying doctoral degrees are forced to hire uneducated peasant laborers.
Our attempts to solve the problem - while we are scared of a final decision - have left us in a situation comparable to a scene in some absurd drama. We behave like a man endlessly going round a post believing that he has traveled a long distance.
But plenty of less literary positions were taken throughout the kingdom. For those a bit weary of the American media's take on every single thing, this post by the blogger Saudiwoman gives a good overview of the Saudi reaction, in both support and condemnation, including this:
[Y]ou have Sheikh Monjed who is originally Syrian describe Manal as a sinful, conspiring and malicious hypocrite and those who support her as evil, infidels, and licentious, conspiring, immoral people who only follow their desires and whims. His words were so harsh and heavy on the accusations that there was a backlash and the next day he issued a statement where he does not apologize but at least shows some remorse. He insists that June 17th was not chosen randomly. That the campaign date is evidence of a Shia conspiracy because it falls on the Hijri date 15th of Rajab which he claims is a Shia holiday or has religious implications for Shia, very Dan Brown, Islamic version.
There are many more but the above had the biggest impact ... another Shiekh, Dr. Ghazi Al Shamari, calling on the authorities to publicly lash Manal in a women-only mall. He also backtracked the next day by saying that since Manal has apologized we should show her mercy and forgive her.
On its surface, this is certainly a debate about the law and the religious and social customs of Saudi Arabia. But like any issue even remotely interesting, it seems to be about more. In this case, it is possible to argue that we are experiencing a case of global machismo fatigue, in which the phenomenon of men in the public trust behaving - and carrying out their civic duties- badly has become utterly tiresome (if not utterly destructive), and the idea that women might be stepping in to take their places a kind of relief. Berlusconi, Strauss-Kahn, Edwards, Ensign, Gingrich, Sanford - why not?
Which of course leads to the question, was Tina Brown on to something?
By devoting her first issue as editor of Newsweek in March to "150 Women Who Shake the World," maybe so. Of course the idea that the world would be an infinitely better place via the influence and increased freedom of women is not a new one. The seemingly unending revelations of poor male impulse control in recent months would seem to confirm that. (Well, be honest: Did you really flinch when you heard about Gov. Schwarzenegger's second family? Did you muster the outrage to excoriate Newt Gingrich around your breakfast table for having an affair with his future third wife while he was still married to his second? And what was your assumption when news of the now infamous below-the-belt photo was sent from Rep. Anthony Wiener's Twitter account? Guilty or not? Honest.) Nothing new.
And the women ... Have you noticed?
That after the swirl of controversy and finger-pointing following the arrest and indictment of Dominique Strauss-Kahn of a sexual attack on a hotel housekeeper, it seems that a cultural shift has taken place in France - a bout of national self-reflection and a vocal rising up of women against a male-dominated culture. Not incidentally, the front runner to replace Strauss-Kahn as the next head of the International Monetary Fund is Christine Lagarde, France's finance minister, who Joseph E. Stiglitz wrote at Slate today, "has won the respect of all of those with whom she has worked." 
That, closer to home, Michele Bachmann seems certain to declare her candidacy for the presidency, and another woman, an outspoken Alaskan, one whom some people actually fear can win, is acting a lot like a person gunning for the chief executive's job, too, taking an early symbolic shot from Bunker Hill at the apparently well-behaved Mitt Romney. Say what you will about these developments, they still suggest the possibility that two women may be on the Republican ticket at once. A first.
That, on a lighter note, Lady Gaga has taken over popular music, and has even been compared to Mother Teresa (in The Economist, no less), leaving all testosterone-mad rappers and Fender shredders in her sparkly dust. 
A certainly unintended side effect of all this has been a spate of commentary on the subject of gender and power, an issue at play in every single human community on the globe. Let us read: 
Paula Marantz Cohen at The Smart Set on the French sea change: The uproar over Dominique Strauss-Kahn's behavior strikes me as marking a possible turning point in Gallic culture - and in Continental European culture more generally, if we consider the Italian Prime Minister's recent travails. Both these men are being taken to task for behaving in the way that men in their cultures have long been expected to behave. But just as the rules of the global marketplace are changing, so are the rules of gender behavior, even in France. The next head of the IMF may, for the first time, be a Turk, a Chinese, an African - and possibly a woman, a Frenchwoman at that. The French may finally be taking a hard look at gender behavior - resulting in more gender equity, though less romance. 
My French friend tells me opinions on DSK's ordeal has undergone an evolution in the short period of its press coverage - from sympathy with the suspect and disdain for American police procedure to national self-examination and mea culpa. 
(Maureen Dowd's Tuesday column also chronicled how the French are moving on.) 
In the New Yorker, a piece by Ariel Levy asks, Have Italians had enough of Silvio Berlusconi-and the culture he embodies?Ninety-five per cent of Italian men have never operated a washing machine. Until 1981, a "crime of honor"-killing your wife for being unfaithful or your sister for having premarital sex-could be treated as a lesser offense than other murders; as late as 2007, a man in Palermo was sentenced to just two days in jail for murdering his wife after their children testified that she had been disrespectful to him. According to the World Economic Forum's 2010 Global Gender Gap Report, Italy ranks seventy-fourth in women's rights, between the Dominican Republic and Gambia. Women constitute a smaller percentage of the workforce in Italy than in any other country in the European Union, apart from Malta, and those who work make barely half as much as their male counterparts. Emma Bonino, a Radical Party leader, told me, "When I was Minister of European Affairs, in 2007, I had to prepare a report on the status of women in Italy. The data came in, and I remember that I rejected it twice, saying to my staff, 'That's impossible: it cannot be so bad.' "
There is growing dissatisfaction with the status of women in Italy. In 2009, in response to rising sexual-assault statistics, Berlusconi said, "We don't have enough soldiers to stop rape because our women are so beautiful." Several months later, fifteen thousand people signed a petition to the wives of G8 leaders, asking them to urge their husbands to show support for Italian women by boycotting a summit with Berlusconi.
At The Guardian, Amanda Marcotte, discussing the Anthony Wiener debacle, noted how manufactured sex scandals in fact end up being sexual harassment: 
Being targeted by these baseless sexual harassment campaigns is traumatic for the objects, as the latest victim, Gennette Cordova, is finding out. Your dating history and your looks are combed over by strange men, who are clearly wiping the drool off their mouths as they analyse the shape of your breasts and the length of your skirt for more "evidence" that you are the honeypot their hated politician has fallen into. Every picture of you available becomes the new Zapruder film, examined endlessly for some tiny detail that could be used to claim you're a slattern, a girl gone wild, a despicable flirt who can't be trusted not to sleep with every man who isn't a rightwing blogger. If you recede from the public view in response, you're accused of hiding something. If you face down your accusers, you're accused of being an attention whore. 
(Here, Ms. Cordova confirms this, describing her life being turned upside down by the scandal.")
As for Manal al-Sharif, Saudiwoman writes: "This is an intelligent capable woman asking for something that should have been a given; driving her own car. Shame on her for speaking out for her right. Shame on her for not putting up with 38,000 SAR ($10,000) annual tax for being a woman in Saudi. Shame on her for standing up for women much less fortunate then her, when she easily could have been quiet in her high-paying job and comfortable compound. Shame on her for being a courageous patriotic woman."
It seems like it might be a long road.

        
Saudi Arabia: Change We Can Believe In? 
        
French Press
        
Queen Bee of the Confederacy
        
What's Up With the Jews?
        
Foodies vs. Techies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CONSPIRACY (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); MEN (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); FARM LABOR (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (61%) dominique strauss-kahn; France; Saudi Arabia; women; Lagarde, Christine; Strauss-Kahn, Dominique; Feminist Movement; Sex Crimes; Sexual Harassment; Women and Girls; The Thread

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (91%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (74%) Lagarde, Christine; Strauss-Kahn, Dominique

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (73%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); FRANCE (89%); UNITED STATES (79%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



117 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Boehner Have Golf Date

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: Amid negotiations on the debt ceiling, the president and the speaker will get together to play golf.

 BODY:
President Obama and Speaker John A. Boehner are taking their budget negotiations to a place where a lot of deals get done in the business world - the golf course.
 White House officials confirmed on Friday that the president had invited Mr. Boehner to tee it up on June 18 at an as yet undisclosed course. The golf date comes as the White House and House Republicans are trying to come to agreement on spending cuts that would clear the way for a vote this summer to raise the federal debt ceiling.
This week Mr. Boehner called for the president to become more engaged in the process. Perhaps the president is hoping Mr. Boehner will grant him some concessions since the speaker is a much more proficient golfer than the president. Aides said the golf outing was set up weeks ago but it was first disclosed by the Politico Web site Friday afternoon.
 Given their mutual appreciation of the game, it was expected that the two men would eventually play a round or two. But their pairing won't be the most closely watched local golf match of that Father's Day weekend - the famed Congressional Country Club in nearby Bethesda is hosting the U.S. Open championship that week as well.

        
House G.O.P. and Obama Have 'Frank Conversation' on Debt
        
House Is Reviving 'Open Rules' for a Debate
        
Boehner Cites Support of Economists in Debt Limit Fight
        
Ryan Defends Medicare Proposal 
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); DEBT CEILING (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MEDICARE (70%) federal debt limit; john boehner; Prsident Obama; The Caucus

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



118 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Protesters Cross Bridge to Oppose Plan to Shut Firehouses

BYLINE: JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ


HIGHLIGHT: More than 1,000 demonstrators march across the Brooklyn Bridge to protest Mayor Bloomberg's plan to close 20 firehouses.

 BODY:
The battle over a plan to cut 20 of the city's firehouses escalated on Friday as more than 1,000 protesters marched across the Brooklyn Bridge to harshly criticize the man who has proposed the cuts, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 The protesters, many of them firefighters, politicians and union officials, compared the mayor to the grim reaper and shouted: "Save lives! Stop Bloomberg!" Some called for his resignation; others suggested that he find other ways to balance the city's budget.
 "It's meshugganah, crazy," Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president, said to a roaring crowd gathered near City Hall. "Twenty proposed closed, eight in Brooklyn. Are you ready? Fuggedaboutit!" 
 Facing steep cuts from the state and federal governments, Mr. Bloomberg has proposed a series of unpopular measures, including eliminating 6,100 teaching positions, more than 4,000 of those through layoffs, and reductions to day care centers.
 City Council members, who must approve the mayor's budget, have vociferously rejected many of his ideas.
 Councilwoman Letitia James of Brooklyn said that while the budget was bleak, the Council would not agree to Mr. Bloomberg's proposals. "Some cuts are a line in the sand, starting with firehouses," she said in an interview.
 Mark Branco, a Staten Island firefighter, said the city should look to other areas before it cuts fire companies, such as the Police Department or welfare programs.
 "The longer it takes you to get to a fire, the more likely it is someone will be killed," Firefighter Branco said. "There's so many other places they could find cutbacks."
 Mr. Bloomberg, meanwhile, has said no department can be immune from cuts at a time of widespread economic distress. His aides have noted that the number of fire deaths has steadily decreased in recent years, even as resources have been stretched thin.
"We heard a lot of the same comments when six fire companies were closed in 2003 - claims that people would die," Marc La Vorgna, a spokesman for the mayor, said in a statement. "But since those six companies were closed, we've hit all-time record lows in fire deaths."
The Council will hold a hearing on the budget on Monday. It must approve a spending plan by July 1.

        
Joking, to a Point, About a Property Tax Cap
        
Never Too Early to Start 2013 Campaign
        
Cassano Named Fire Commissioner
        
Sanctions in Albany, and Sunshine in Brazil
        
Scenes From a (Fictional) Bloomberg Tell-All

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TAX LAW (72%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); RIOTS (64%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (62%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (54%) Michael R. Bloomberg; New York City budget; New York City Fire Department; Bloomberg, Michael R; Budgets and Budgeting; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Fires and Firefighters; Fire Department (NYC); City Hall; Highlights; Police and Fire

ORGANIZATION: Fire Department (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



119 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Obama Hails Auto Industry's Turnaround in Visit to Chrysler Plant

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama hailed the auto industry's comeback at a Chrysler plant in Toledo, two years after the company's bailout, but warned that "headwinds" continue to buffet the economy.

 BODY:
TOLEDO, Ohio - President Obama hailed the auto industry's comeback at a Chrysler plant here, two years after the company's bailout, but warned several hundred appreciative workers that "headwinds" continue to buffet the economy - the closest he came to referring to the day's disappointing employment report.
Mr. Obama's visit to a century-old auto-manufacturing site that now makes the Jeep Wrangler was intended to draw attention to the good news that the auto industry's once-threatened Big 3 -- Chrysler and General Motors, both of which were bailed out, along with Ford - all were adding workers, making profits, increasing market share and, in the case of CHrysler and General Motors, paying back their taxpayer loans. He did not directly address the day's news that the government's monthly jobs report showed an uptick in the unemployment rate to 9.1 percent - unlike last month, when he visited a Maryland plant on the Friday that better jobs numbers were released and noted the improvement.
"There are always going to be bumps on the road to recovery," Mr. Obama said. "We're going to pass through some tough terrain that even a Wrangler would have a hard time on." At that the audience sounded a good-natured yell of "No!" in defense of their product. 
The job news hardly seemed to dampen the enthusiastic reception Mr. Obama received; instead he was repeatedly thanked by people who said they owed their jobs to him and his decision in early 2009 to provide $60 billion in government assistance to see Chrysler and GM through bankruptcy. Mr. Obama was introduced to the Chrysler employees by a worker who said she and her husband would not have jobs or health coverage but for the bailout.
Taking credit for the controversial decision has become a staple of Mr. Obama's recent stump speeches and is likely to remain so through his re-election campaign, especially given that auto states Ohio and next-door Michigan are election swing states. But in his short speech Mr. Obama had to balance the congratulatory message with acknowledgment of ongoing weakness in the economy. 
"I don't want to pretend like everything's solved," he said. "There's nobody here who doesn't know somebody who's looking for work and hasn't found something yet," Mr. Obama added, to which a man yelled "Right!"
"This economy took a big hit," he said, and continues to face "headwinds" stalling progress. The latest, he said, are high gas prices, the economic disruptions from Japan's tragic earthquake and tsunami and instability in the Middle East.
But mostly he cited the evidence of the revival of the auto industry and manufacturing generally, and added near the end, "I want you to remember all those voices who were saying 'No. No we can't.'" The workers gave him an effusive send-off and standing ovation.
The day had the trappings of a campaign, with the factory visit sandwiched between stops at Rudy's Hot Dog to greet lunch diners and at a Fred's Pro Hardware store near the Chrysler plant, which Mr. Obama visited to draw attention to the fact that not only auto companies were helped but also the suppliers and small businesses in the communities around them. And he stood at the gate at shift change time, greeting the departing workers.
A number thanked him for the government aid. "Nice to meet you. Thanks for bailing out Chrysler," one woman said. Mr. Obama replied, "Thanks for paying it back."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MARKET SHARE (69%); TSUNAMIS (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) Obama, Barack; United States Economy; Chrysler LLC; General Motors; Ohio; General Motors|GM|NYSE; The Caucus

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Chrysler LLC; General Motors

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%) General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



120 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: How Obama Loses

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: The most effective section of Mitt Romney's kick-off speech.

 BODY:
I didn't care much for Mitt Romney's speech yesterday announcing his presidential bid. It struck me as vintage Romney, by which I mean it resembled a somewhat tin-eared consultant's idea of the kind of political speech right-wing primary voters want to hear. (Okay, now the anti-European boilerplate: "The President seems to take his inspiration not from the small towns and villages of New Hampshire but from the capitals of Europe." Now the hyperbole: "We are only inches away from ceasing to be a free market economy." Now the completely non-specific promises to cut spending: "I will cap federal spending at 20% or less of the GDP and finally, finally balance the budget." Now the clunky one-liner: "You know, if you want to create jobs, it helps to have had a job." Now wait for the applause ...)
But as unappealing and inauthentic as I found it, the speech still had a pretty effective hook:A few years ago, Americans did something that was, actually, very much the sort of thing Americans like to do: We gave someone new a chance to lead; someone we hadn't known for very long, who didn't have much of a record but promised to lead us to a better place.
... Now, in the third year of his four-year term, we have more than promises and slogans to go by.
Barack Obama has failed America.
When he took office, the economy was in recession. He made it worse. And he made it last longer.
Three years later, over 16 million Americans are out of work or have just quit looking. Millions more are underemployed.
Three years later, unemployment is still above 8%, a figure he said his stimulus would keep from happening.
Three years later, foreclosures are still at record levels.
Three years later the prices of homes continue to fall.
Three years later, our national debt has grown nearly as large as our entire economy.
Families are buried under higher prices for food and higher prices for gasoline.
... And what's [President Obama's] answer? He says this: "I'm just getting started."Is this fair? Well, no, in the sense that the occupant of the Oval Office has far less control over the economic picture than politicians of either party would like you to believe. (Gene Healy recently reminded me of Hillary Clinton's bizarre-yet-typical promise to be "commander-in-chief of the economy.") But yes, in the sense that these somewhat-unfair lines are the ones presidential elections are usually fought on - the last one, to then-candidate Obama's great benefit, very much included. And for now, whatever you think of Mitt Romney (or Tim Pawlenty, or Jon Huntsman, or some Mystery Contender to come), it looks like the Republican nominee is going to be able to throw some pretty devastating punches at the president's economic stewardship.

        
Presidential Politics After Bin Laden
        
Exit Daniels
        
The Nomination Nobody Wants
        
What Mitt Romney Should Have Said
        
Exit Barbour

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (85%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); RECESSION (75%); BUDGETS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); FORECLOSURE (62%); FOOD PRICES (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); HOME PRICES (61%) 2012; Barack Obama; Mitt Romney; the economy; the horse race

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



121 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: The Virtues of Investing in Transportation

BYLINE: LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON


HIGHLIGHT: Spending more on transportation -- and spending it wisely -- would create jobs and improve the nation's competitiveness, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Laura D'Andrea Tyson is a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, and served as chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Clinton. She currently serves on President Obama's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness and its infrastructure subgroup.
Years of underinvesting in the nation's transportation infrastructure are apparent in congested roads, freight bottlenecks, airport delays and overcrowded or non-existent public transit operations. Yet the heated debate in Washington about how much and how fast to slash government spending is overlooking how a significant, sustained increase in infrastructure investment would create jobs and strengthen the nation's competitiveness.
Infrastructure spending, adjusted for inflation and accounting for the depreciation of existing assets, is at about the same level it was in 1968, when the economy was one-third smaller. Public investment on transportation and water infrastructure as a share of gross domestic product has fallen steadily since the 1960s and now stands at 2.4 percent, compared with 5 percent in Europe and more than 9 percent in China. 
Experts differ on how much more is needed but agree the amount is substantial.
The American Society of Civil Engineers, for example, estimates that we need to spend an additional $110 billion a year to maintain the transportation infrastructure at current performance levels. The Congressional Budget Office reported in May that simply maintaining the current performance of the system would require the federal government to increase its annual spending on highways by about one-third, while state and local governments that account for about 55 percent of capital spending on the highway system would have to increase their annual spending by similar or larger amounts. Financing highway projects whose economic benefits exceed their costs would necessitate more than a doubling of federal investment on highway infrastructure from its 2010 level of $43 billion. All these estimates apply only to shortfalls in economically justifiable spending on transportation and highways; they do not include other critical infrastructure areas, like water, energy and broadband. 
Government spending on infrastructure raises demand, creates jobs and increases the supply and growth potential of the economy over time. The C.B.O. says infrastructure spending is one of the most effective fiscal policies for increasing output and employment and one of the most cost-effective forms of government spending in terms of the number of jobs created per dollar of budgetary cost. 
Studies indicate that each $1 billion of infrastructure spending creates 11,000 (estimate of the President's Council of Economic Advisers) to 30,000 jobs (estimate of the Department of Transportation for infrastructure spending on highways) through direct and indirect effects. 
Most of these jobs are added in construction and related sectors, hard hit by the housing crisis, and most of them are relatively well paid, with wages between the 25th and the 75th percentile of the national wage distribution. 
Public infrastructure enables the private sector. A modern transportation infrastructure improves private-sector productivity by reducing production and transportation costs, and facilitating trade, economies of scale and efficient production methods. 
Not surprisingly, the quality of transportation infrastructure is a major factor affecting business decisions about where to locate production, and the eroding quality of infrastructure is making the United States a less attractive place to do business.
According to the 2010-11 competitiveness report of the World Economic Forum, the United States now ranks 23rd among 139 countries on the overall quality of its infrastructure -- between Spain and Chile. In 1999, the United States ranked seventh.
The Obama administration's budget request for $556 billion for the reauthorization of the surface transportation bill over the next six years is an important first step. But how the money is spent also matters. Because of political considerations, a large fraction of federal infrastructure spending currently finances projects aimed at building capacity rather than maintaining existing capacity. 
Yet recent evidence indicates both that the returns on projects to expand capacity have been falling over time and that projects to maintain capacity often enjoy higher returns. 
In a time of budget austerity, the allocation of scarce federal dollars for infrastructure must be guided by cost-benefit analysis -- rather than by earmarks and formula-based grants, as is currently the case. That's why the Obama administration is calling for the use of performance criteria and "race to the top" competition among state and local governments to allocate federal spending among competing projects.
That's also why both the administration and a bipartisan group led by Senators John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts; Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, and Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, have proposed the creation of a national infrastructure bank. 
Such a bank would focus on transformative projects of national significance, like the creation of a high-speed rail system or the modernization of the air-traffic-control system. Such projects are neglected by the formula-driven processes now used to distribute federal infrastructure funds among states and regions. 
The bank would also provide greater certainty about the level of federal funds for multiyear projects by removing those decisions from the politically volatile annual appropriations process and would select projects based on transparent cost-benefit analysis by independent experts. 
The bank would be granted authority to create partnerships with private investors on individual projects, and these would increase the funds available and foster greater efficiency in project selection, operation and maintenance. Such partnerships -- common in Europe and other parts of the world -- often result in earlier completion of projects, lower costs and better maintenance of infrastructure compared with investments made solely by public entities. 
Despite rapid growth in the last decade, such partnerships are still rare in the United States. Why? Because infrastructure decisions are fragmented, with states, cities and municipalities owning their own assets and applying their own political and economic criteria to potential deals with private investors. Several states do not have legislation authorizing partnerships and no guidelines exist for how decisions will be made. 
One obstacle may be gone: Representative James Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota and the previous chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, opposed these partnerships and urged state and local officials to avoid them. He lost his seat in 2010, and Representative John Mica, Republican of Florida, who now heads the committee, supports the partnership concept. Improving infrastructure investment decisions through cost-benefit analysis and public-private partnerships is one way to realize larger returns on scarce investment dollars. 
Applying congestion pricing or tolls and fees to make private users pay a larger share of the total cost of their infrastructure use is another. Drivers do not currently pay the full costs of their driving, and those substantial costs -- including traffic delays, accidents and damage to roads -- are borne by other drivers and society. 
Congestion pricing and more reliance on tolls would relieve the economic and social costs of congestion; it would give clearer signals about the demand for different types of infrastructure, and it would reduce the required amount of infrastructure investment. The Federal Highway Administration estimates that widespread use of congestion pricing would reduce the necessary investment in highways by about $20 billion a year. But congestion pricing, despite its successes in London and elsewhere, is likely to encounter vociferous opposition, as Mayor Bloomberg learned when he proposed a reasonable plan for New York City.
Even as we slash other forms of government spending, we must invest more in our infrastructure.

        
A Time for Radical Centrists
        
A Winning Economic Strategy for the G.O.P.
        
Are Taxes in the U.S. High or Low?
        
The Case for Higher Taxes 
        
Is the Fair Tax Herman Cain's Ace in the Hole?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (93%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); ENGINEERING (68%); BROADBAND (61%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (59%) budget deficit; Daily Economist; earmarks; government spending; high-speed rail; highways; infrastructure; Laura D'Andrea Tyson; politics; Federal Budget (US); Infrastructure (Public Works); Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (84%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



122 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Warning

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A critical credit rating agency says it may have to drop the nation's score if Congress can't raise the debt ceiling and soon.

 BODY:
From Today's Times:
 Wall Street fired a warning shot at Congress on Thursday as Moody's Investors Service cautioned that it might have to downgrade the nation's credit rating if the debt limit is not raised soon. That rating is one of those used to determine interest rates, and the warning drives home the risk that a Congressional standoff could have global economic repercussions, The Times's Jackie Calmes and Carl Hulse report. Looking straight past the primary season, Mitt Romney officially opened his presidential campaign in New Hampshire on Thursday with an attack on President Obama. But other potential Republican candidates aren't exactly jumping out of his way. The Times's Michael D. Shear reports that Sarah Palin and Rudolph W. Giuliani took shots at Mr. Romney's health care record as governor of Massachusetts while they, too, were in the early primary state Thursday. Moving to adopt a strong stance on Libya, the House will vote Friday on resolutions critical of Mr. Obama's continued involvement of American forces in NATO operations there. The two measures are presented by the House speaker, John A. Boehner, and Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, Democrat of Ohio, demonstrating a sense of disenchantment with the United States' involvement from both parties, The Times's Jennifer Steinhauer and Charlie Savage report. It's been almost a year since Congress passed regulatory changes to rein in the banking sector, but many of the new rules are being held up as some on Wall Street and in Congress push back. The Times's Louise Story reports that 28 deadlines in the financial overhaul rule-making process have been missed, and if implementation takes long enough - say, past the next election - the overhaul could be jeopardized if newly elected officials drop the issue.Around the Web:
 Newt Gingrich will be noticeably absent from the Faith & Freedom Coalition Conference in Washington this weekend, Politico Reports. Though his campaign said he would provide a video message, he'll be the only Republican presidential candidate missing from the gathering of social conservatives.Washington Happenings:
 The verdict on May's employment situation is in. The Labor Department will release the numbers Friday morning. Mr. Obama visits a Chrysler plant in Toledo, Ohio, on Friday to tour the plant and speak to workers. The 2011 Faith & Freedom Coalition Conference convenes in Washington on Friday and Saturday, featuring a host of conservative guests, including Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin and Mr. Boehner. Also in attendance will be many Republican presidential candidates, including Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former Utah governor and ambassador to China; Representative Ron Paul of Texas and Herman Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza.

        
The Early Word: Unemployment
        
The Early Word: Rejected
        
The Early Word: Commemorations
        
The Weekend Word: Brash
        
The Early Word: Setting a Precedent

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MITT ROMNEY (70%); RON PAUL (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%); RUDY GIULIANI (55%); SARAH PALIN (55%); HERMAN CAIN (55%); JON HUNTSMAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



123 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: The Logic in Refusing to Block Massey's Sale

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: The decision in the Massey case looks like one that allows management to escape charges of wrongdoing, but the truth is much more complicated, the Deal Professor says. 

 BODY:
Jeff Gentner/Associated PressLaw enforcement and emergency personnel at the entrance to Massey Energy's Upper Big Branch coal mine in West Virginia on April 5, 2010, after an explosion killed 29 miners. 
Stuart Grant, one of the name partners of the law firm Grant & Eisenhofer, is mad.
The Delaware Chancery Court's refusal to halt the acquisition of Massey Energy by Alpha Natural Resources, which was approved by shareholders this week, has made him angry. "This ruling has me totally disgusted," Mr. Grant told Thomson Reuters. "If you can't win against Massey and Don Blankenship, you can't win," he said, referring to the company's former chief executive.
He added: "These people are just going to walk. This ruling says you can be the worst C.E.O., you can violate all the laws you want, then you can arrange a sweetheart merger and just walk away."
 Mr. Grant's firm is representing some shareholder plaintiffs who are suing Massey's directors and officers. The lawsuit arose out of a disaster. On April 5, 2010, there was a gigantic explosion at Massey's Upper Big Branch coal mine in West Virginia. Twenty-nine miners were killed. 
Litigation followed, and Massey's directors and officers were sued in Delaware Chancery Court for breaching their fiduciary duties. A group of Massey shareholders asserted that the company's directors and officers had failed to properly monitor mine safety. These shareholders demanded that these men and women should be held liable to the company to pay for the losses suffered, losses in the hundreds of millions of dollars. 
When Alpha's acquisition of Massey was announced, a second lawsuit was brought. In this lawsuit, Massey shareholders argued that the merger should be halted because it was a way for Massey's directors and officers to avoid liability from the mine disaster. The Delaware Chancery Court, however, demurred and refused to enjoin the acquisition, bringing Mr. Grant's ire upon the court. 
Mr. Grant is essentially asserting that the court's decision would absolve the directors and officers of liability. If so, it would happen in light of some egregious allegations. A report on the mine disaster, commissioned by then-Gov. Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, concluded that "the responsibility for the explosion at the Upper Big Branch mine lies with the management of Massey Energy. The company broke faith with its workers by frequently and knowingly violating the law." 
And at first blush, it appears that Mr. Grant is right. The Delaware decision thus looks like one that allows management to escape charges of wrongdoing. 
However, the true answer is much more complicated, in part because of Delaware law on this point, which is anything but clear. 
The problem arises because of Delaware law's peculiar treatment of lawsuits against officers and directors for breaches of their fiduciary duties. These lawsuits are called derivative claims because they are really the responsibility of the company and should be brought by the company itself. But directors can often be conflicted in the decision to bring this kind of lawsuit. After all, the suit may be against themselves. Why would they authorize such a suit? 
To solve this problem, Delaware allows derivative suits. If directors are indeed conflicted or refuse to legitimately bring suit, shareholders can instead do so.
The Massey shareholder lawsuit arising from the mining disaster is a derivative one. 
But there is a quirk in the derivative rules if a merger happens. The Delaware courts have ruled that when a company is acquired, the old shareholders lose standing to bring a derivative suit. The reason is that they no longer have an interest in the company and therefore lack standing to pursue a claim on its behalf. 
Instead, after a merger, the new company is responsible for any lawsuit. If you can believe it, this is the simple explanation of these rules. They are much more complicated than this, a thicket of procedures that even expert litigators struggle to understand. 
So, in the Massey acquisition, the merger eliminates the claims that the old Massey shareholders had. Instead, Alpha now owns the claims and it is the Alpha board's decision whether to bring them. If the Alpha board decides not to do so, and is unconflicted in the decision, then Alpha's shareholders cannot bring the suit. 
In this light, plaintiffs had argued in a second lawsuit that the merger was a scheme for Massey's directors and officers to avoid liability. A majority of the Massey directors, fearing that their personal wealth was on the line, sold the company to Alpha at a reduced price in order to escape liability. 
There is evidence that Massey directors feared potential liability. In the initial draft of the acquisition agreement, Massey's directors and officers requested extremely broad indemnification by Alpha against a wide array of claims, including "willful acts of misconduct." Alpha called the request "obnoxious" and the indemnification was later negotiated back to cover claims that Massey had previously agreed to indemnify. 
Despite this evidence, Vice Chancellor Leo E. Strine Jr. of Delaware Chancery Court rejected shareholder plaintiffs' argument. Before he did so, though, he found that the plaintiffs had stated a claim that could proceed to trial by adequately demonstrating that the directors and officers of Massey had breached their fiduciary duties by failing to address poor safety conditions and allowing violations of mining safety rules. 
This type of failure of oversight claim is known as a Caremark claim and requires that the plaintiffs prove that there was a conscious disregard of duties by the directors or offices. Vice Chancellor Strine's finding was in and of itself momentous, since the vice chancellor himself stated this type of claim was "possibly the most difficult theory in corporation law upon which a plaintiff might hope to win a judgment."
However, Vice Chancellor Strine held that this was not the ultimate answer. Instead, the issue was whether Alpha was paying fair value for these claims. Vice Chancellor Strine found that this issue was immaterial since the claims were difficult to value and might be difficult to prove at trial, despite constituting viable claims, and that in any event the primary recourse for a suit was the directors' insurance policy of $95 million. Since the claims were immaterial, Vice Chancellor Strine refused to stop the Alpha-Massey merger. 
Vice Chancellor Strine's decision appears right. If nothing else, such an act would only penalize Massey shareholders twice and leave them with the same poorly performing board. 
But the real reason why Vice Chancellor Strine is right is that the outcome of this suit has yet to be decided. 
Instead, the Alpha board will now have to decide itself whether to continue to pursue a lawsuit against the Massey officers and directors. If the Alpha board decides not to continue this suit, the shareholders can then bring their own suit to force a claim if they can show that the Alpha board did not properly decide to discontinue the suit. 
Even then, Vice Chancellor Strine may still decide to preserve the suit. Delaware courts are courts of equity. The court can continue to allow the suit to proceed on the basis that it would be inequitable to not to penalize the actions of the Massey officers and directors. Vice Chancellor Strine appears to be arguing that the value in this suit is how much money can be collected. But in this case, the Massey directors would face personal liability. Even if it is only a few million dollars, such liability goes a long way to holding directors accountable for extreme misconduct. 
Vice Chancellor Strine has another basis to continue this suit even if Alpha directors refuse to do so. A recent Delaware Supreme Court case involving Bank of America's acquisition of Countrywide Financial permitted old shareholders of Countrywide to continue their suit since "the complaint adequately alleged that the board of directors' pre-merger breaches [of fiduciary duty] reflected misconduct so injurious to the company that it led to the subsequent merger."
It would appear that the Alpha-Massey merger was directly related to the mine blast. And a liberal interpretation here would be appropriate, given how hard it is to even make a Caremark claim. 
Thus, Mr. Grant's comments were at best premature and this lawsuit still might continue. 
Let's be clear, though, the suit's chances of succeeding are slim. Vice Chancellor Strine devotes some time in his opinion to arguing why it might be economically rational for the Alpha board to continue the suit. But I'm not so sure that it will. There is also a "there but for the grace of God go I" sentiment about these suits, which means that the Alpha board is unlikely to want to sue its own kind. And remember that some of the Massey officials are likely to continue to be employed by Alpha. It is for these reasons that people argue that Delaware's rule on derivative suits and mergers does not take into account reality. 
If the Alpha board does decide to validly discontinue the lawsuit, Vice Chancellor Strine most likely will have only deferred a difficult choice on whether to allow this lawsuit to proceed. In areas of the opinion, Vice Chancellor Strine appears to signal that he would not carve out an exception under rules of equity or Countrywide to continue the suit. 
But he may want to be careful here. The allegations against the Massey board are of egregious misconduct. Moreover, the complicated procedures here can be read to permit this suit to continue if the Alpha board declines to allow it to. 
There is a fear in Delaware that the federal government will step in to impose its own laws regulating director liability because Delaware courts are viewed as to pro-managerial. While Delaware may claim that it is just following its procedures, if Vice Chancellor Strine ultimately dismisses this case on a procedural point, critics of Delaware law are likely to be quick to cite this case as one showing Delaware courts to be too permissive of management. People never like it when bad guys get off on technicalities. 
Strine Ruling on Massey Lawsuit

        
Delaware Chief Judge Chandler Retires
        
Delaware Law Gives NYSE an Edge in Battle With Nasdaq

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WEST VIRGINIA COAL MINE EXPLOSION (90%); COAL MINING (90%); MINE WORKERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); MERGERS (89%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (89%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); VERDICTS (76%); INJUNCTIONS (76%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); APPROVALS (71%) Alpha Natural Resources; Delaware Case Law; Delaware Chancery Court; Grant & Eisenhofer; Leo E. Strine Jr.; Massey Energy; Stuart Grant; Decisions and Verdicts; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Alpha Natural Resources Inc; Massey Energy Co; Upper Big Branch Mine; Alpha Natural Resources Inc|ANR|NYSE; Basic Industries; Deal Professor; Energy/Utilities; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: MASSEY ENERGY CO (92%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Alpha Natural Resources Inc; Massey Energy Co; Upper Big Branch Mine

TICKER: FLR (FRA) (92%); ANR (NYSE) (90%) Alpha Natural Resources Inc; ANR; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%)

PERSON: JOE MANCHIN (58%); DON L BLANKENSHIP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



124 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: A Revival In Manufacturing Seems to Be Fading

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
The strong revival of worldwide manufacturing seems to have slowed.
Surveys of manufacturing companies around the world indicate that business is still improving for many of them, but that the pace of growth has slowed. 
In the United States, the Institute for Supply Management reported that the overall reading for its survey in May fell to 53.5 from 60.4. Figures above 50 indicate that more companies say business is improving than say it is getting worse, so that is hardly a sign of a new recession.
Still, it played into a rising fear that the recovery is slowing again at a time when unemployment remains high.
On Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the rate rose to 9.1 percent in May, up a tenth of a percentage point.
The drop of 6.9 points was the largest one-month decline since January 1984, a fact that received considerable attention. Less noted was the fact that the earlier decline came off even higher figures and did not presage a return to the recession that ended in late 1982.
The figures show the direction of change, not the magnitude or the existing level. Extremely strong numbers can persist for long periods only if conditions are continually improving.
The accompanying charts show three components of the survey, which is conducted in many countries around the world, and indicate that the slowing of growth is a more general phenomenon. For ease of understanding, the figures are converted to place a 50 reading -- one that indicates an equal number of positive and negative responses -- at zero.
The slide appears to be worse in Britain, where a strong revival late last year and early this year seems to have vanished. There, readings came in at negative levels for both output and new orders, the first time that had happened since May 2009, when the credit crisis was only beginning to ease. But more companies there continue to say they are hiring rather than reducing payrolls.
In the United States, the figure for new orders remains barely positive, and the output figure also declined, although it remains positive. The figure for employment also fell, but it remained at a level that historically has accompanied good jobs figures. The employment index has been over 55, or 5 in the chart, for 16 consecutive months, the longest such stretch since 1965.
Labor Department figures indicate that the number of manufacturing jobs hit bottom in December 2009 and that employment has been rising more rapidly in that sector than in the economy as a whole, although it fell by 5,000 jobs in May.
On average, the euro zone appears to be stronger than any of the other countries shown, but this is a case where averages can be misleading. The German boom cooled only a little, and France remains strong. But already weak figures in Greece are getting worse, and Spanish manufacturers see some deterioration.
In Japan, the figures show some revival from the blow caused by the earthquake and tsunami in March. The output index went above break-even levels after falling sharply, but as a group, Japanese manufacturers still say they are reducing employment.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Slowing Recoveries: Each month, manufacturers are asked if their business is improving or getting worse. The charts show the responses of companies in four regions -- the United States, Britain, the euro zone and Japan -- regarding three topics: output, new orders and employment. Figures above zero indicate more companies say conditions are improving than say they are getting worse. Higher numbers show that a greater percentage report improvement. (Source: Markit) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); NEW ORDERS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); EURO ZONE (63%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%); FRANCE (65%); GREECE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



125 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Museum Raises Suggested Fee

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Museum of Art, facing what it calls a ''number of daunting, ongoing budgetary challenges,'' has decided to raise its suggested admission fee to $25, from $20, where it has been set for the last five years. The change takes effect July 1. 
-The move, said Thomas P. Campbell, the museum's director, was made because income from the Met's $2.3 billion endowment has flattened as the economy has continued to sputter and because the average amount paid by visitors - who can decide to contribute as little as a penny if they want - has been lower recently. ''Since the average cost to the museum of each visitor is $40 we believe it is fair, and above all necessary, to increase recommended admission levels at this time,'' Mr. Campbell said in a statement.
While the museum declines to say what the average amount paid by each visitor is, for fear that most visitors will begin to pay only that amount, Harold Holzer, a Met spokesman, said that the per capita contribution usually goes up year by year but had slipped 16 cents during this fiscal year. ''And when you're talking about millions of visitors, those cents add up,'' he said.
The city's contribution to the museum's operating budget has also declined in recent years, from a high of $13.7 million in the fiscal year 2007 to $10.6 million this fiscal year. The city has proposed cutting the contribution for fiscal 2012 to $5.4 million, which would be a huge blow to the museum's bottom line.--Over the last 15 years the museum has raised the suggested admission price on average every three years. The suggested price for senior citizens will rise to $17, from $15, and the price for students to $12 from $10. The museum will continue to be free for children under the age of 12 and to student groups from New York City schools.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (85%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); CHILDREN (61%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



126 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: War of Ideas Overshadows Job Struggle

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A run of disappointing economic data, punctuated by Friday's employment numbers, is emboldening Congressional Republicans in their standoff with the White House over the best way for the government to encourage growth.
Republicans said the slow pace of hiring in May underscored the need for sharp cuts in federal spending and regulation to spur corporate investment. They have refused to increase the debt ceiling, the maximum amount the government can borrow, without an agreement to make such cuts.
They argue that Democratic efforts to revive growth through public spending programs have failed as the economy remained weak and unemployment high almost two years after the end of the recession. 
''You talk to job creators around the country like we have,'' House Speaker John A. Boehner said Friday. ''They'll tell you the overtaxing, overregulating and overspending that's going on here in Washington is creating uncertainty and holding them back.''
Democrats counter that Republicans are unnerving businesses by sowing uncertainty about the government's willingness to pay its debts, and that immediate budget reductions would cut jobs and undermine growth.
Since the end of the recession in June 2009, private employers have added roughly a million jobs. During that same period, however, governments have cut 1.1 million jobs, underscoring the impact of reductions in public spending.
''Republicans in Washington are making it harder to create jobs,'' said Representative Sander Levin of Michigan, the top Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee. ''They threaten to shut down the government, they threaten to default on our nation's debts and they threaten the jobs of teachers, police officers and many others. Creating this kind of uncertainty hurts our economic recovery.''
Almost 25 million Americans could not find full-time work during May, but their plight has not gripped Washington. Neither party has suggested that the issue deserves the kind of urgent response that might require ideological compromises.
The Federal Reserve, charged with minimizing unemployment, has indicated that it intends to stand back, waiting on further evidence about the health of the economy before considering new steps to stimulate growth. The central bank is immobilized by the same political forces as Congress, with conservative members of the Fed board and outside critics demanding that it withdraw the money it has pumped into the economy, and liberals arguing for additional aid.
The deadlock actually means that the government will steadily reduce its support for the economy during the second half of 2011. The Fed will complete a plan at the end of June to bolster growth by buying the last of $600 billion in Treasury securities. More than 80 percent of the president's $800 billion stimulus plan has been disbursed. Last year's package of $225 billion in tax cuts and jobless benefits will expire at the end of the year.
Both parties seized on the latest economic data as evidence for their positions on deficit reduction, an issue that has displaced jobs as the focus of public debate.
The government must borrow money to pay its bills, the amount it can borrow is set by Congress, and the present limit -- the debt ceiling -- will be reached in early August. Since taking control of the House and gaining Senate seats last year, Republicans have seized on the need to raise the debt ceiling to demand a broader deal on deficit reduction, including immediate cuts in spending.
Representative Jeb Hensarling, a Texas Republican, said the ''administration doesn't understand that one of the biggest impediments to job creation today is the lack of confidence, a lack of confidence in the future that comes from an administration where regulators have gone wild, from an administration threatening the largest single tax increase in America's history and an administration that doesn't take seriously the debt that is threatening our job creators.''
Democrats have been forced into the defensive argument that threatening not to raise the debt ceiling is irresponsible and will certainly shake the confidence of financial markets.
They argue that public spending programs like the stimulus and expanded jobless benefits have provided an incomplete but important response to the devastation wrought by the financial crisis. Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the top Democrat on the Budget Committee, noted that employment has risen for 15 consecutive months.
''With millions of Americans still out of work and families struggling to make ends meet, there is still more we must do,'' said Mr. Van Hollen, a participant in bipartisan budget deal talks. ''Unfortunately, Washington Republicans have failed to make job creation a priority. In fact, economists of every political stripe have said their budget would threaten our fragile recovery.''
Republicans have also embraced the argument of business trade groups that regulation is impeding economic growth.
''Today's increase in the unemployment rate underscores the need for dramatic action to break down barriers to job creation. First among these are unnecessary regulations,'' said John Engler, president of the Business Roundtable. ''We need action by government agencies to clear out obsolete rules and streamline permitting to reduce delays and impediments for companies to invest and grow.''
''The private sector is the only hope for future job creation,'' he said.
House Democrats have tried to seize momentum by rolling out a series of bills intended to bolster domestic manufacturing and construction under the rubric of ''Make It in America.'' The measures promote initiatives like high speed rail and other public transit projects, call for a permanent research and development tax credit and direct the government to develop a national manufacturing strategy.
But the proposals have little chance in the Republican-controlled House and represent a long-term view rather than an immediate fix for unemployment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%)

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



127 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop on Weak Monthly Jobs Report

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks on Wall Street slumped on Friday after a disappointing monthly government jobs report showed that hiring in the United States slowed in May, sending both the Dow and the broader market down to their fifth consecutive weekly loss.
The market opened more than 1 percent lower after the report from the Labor Department showed the economy added just 54,000 jobs in May, compared with the rise of 232,000 jobs in nonfarm payrolls in April. The report also showed that the unemployment rate rose to 9.1 percent in May from 9 percent in April. May's payrolls number was well below the 165,000 forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Investors had been digesting weak signals about the economy in the days leading up to the monthly report, with gloomy reports on jobs, manufacturing and auto sales that helped to send stocks down by more than 2 percent this week to their biggest declines in percentage terms since last August. 
In another indicator released Friday, the Institute for Supply Management said the service sector of the nation's economy grew in May for an 18th consecutive month.
After their initial reaction to the jobs report, the three main indexes retraced some ground but never pushed into positive territory.
Shares in the telecommunications and information technology sector led the declines. American Tower fell 5.83 percent to $51.21. Verizon was down 1.49 percent at $35.63, and Sprint declined 4.38 percent to $5.67. Yahoo closed down 2.12 percent at $15.68.
The Dow Jones industrial average was down 97.29 points, or 0.79 percent, at 12,151.26. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 12.78 points, or 0.97 percent, to 1,300.16. The Nasdaq composite index fell 40.53 points, or 1.46 percent, to 2,732.78.
All three indexes closed the week more than 2 percent lower compared with the previous week. It was the third consecutive weekly loss for the Nasdaq.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 12/32, to 101 6/32, and the yield fell to 2.99 percent from 3.03 percent late Thursday.
The jobs numbers seemed more to disappoint than to surprise the market.
David Kelly, the chief market strategist for J.P. Morgan Funds, said it had been clear that the number would be weak because recent data, particularly for payrolls and initial unemployment benefit claims, had suggested the direction.
''A lot of individual investors are skittish, and they will sell first and ask questions later,'' Mr. Kelly said of the expected response. ''But for the long-term investors it is better to ask the questions first.''
Lawrence Creatura, portfolio manager at Federated Clover Investment Advisors, said investors were more risk-averse than they were about a month ago and unlikely to carry too much risk over the weekend, which has an impact on pricing.
''We are in an environment where the volatility of the underlying data is increasing,'' Mr. Creatura said. ''Today being a Friday, and being confronted with some pretty dark employment data, investors should be ready for anything.''
The last time the Dow closed lower for five consecutive weeks was the five-week period ending on July 23, 2004.
But some economists expect the economy to pick up in the latter part of the year.
Mr. Kelly said he expected economic growth to pick up, averaging above 3 percent in quarterly growth rates in the second half of the year compared with the 2 percent he forecast for the second quarter. He said growth was more likely than another recession because of factors including a weak dollar, easy monetary conditions and pent-up demand. Corporate profits are also poised to grow.
''For long-term investors that is still the way I would play this,'' he added. ''But in the short run this is going to raise a lot of fears about something worse.''
''Because of that, stocks are a better value than bonds,'' Mr. Kelly said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (65%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



128 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Revealing Excessive 401(k) Fees

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
You may not realize this, but your 401(k) or other workplace retirement plan is not free.
Sure, you may have looked at the expenses on the mutual funds you own. But there are other costs as well for record-keeping and assorted other administrative costs. And because they generally don't show up on your quarterly statement, you probably don't know they are there.
But they are there, and they are large enough to have attracted the attention of both the Labor Department and plaintiffs' lawyers. The Labor Department, in fact, has approved new rules for fee disclosure for retirement plans that are supposed to go into effect starting sometime next year.
Meanwhile, experts in the field are keeping a close eye on a federal lawsuit in Kansas City, Mo. The suit, filed by employees of a company called ABB who assert that their 401(k) plan was mismanaged and too costly, has already gone to trial. And it began on an unsettling note, when one of the plaintiffs killed his supervisor and two colleagues at work one morning before turning a gun on himself. The trial went ahead as scheduled, but 16 months have now gone by without a decision. 
The delay probably has something to do with how much is at stake. For many millions of Americans who do not work for themselves, the sum of what they save in 401(k) and similar plans could be their biggest asset, by far, come retirement time. So it's crucial that employers have clear rules about proper disclosure of the fees in such plans and a definitive understanding of when those fees are excessive.
WHY FEES MATTER How much might an improvement be worth to someone who can persuade an employer to make one?
Here's how the Labor Department puts it. Let's say you have 35 years until retirement and a balance of $25,000. You put no more money in and earn a 7 percent return annually. If fees and plan expenses reduce those returns by 0.5 percent a year, your balance will grow to $227,000 in those 35 years. If those fees total 1.5 percent, however, you'll end up with just $163,000, 28 percent less.
An annual total of 0.5 percent isn't reality for most workers, alas. According to BrightScope, a company that gathers data about retirement plans and gives some of that data to individuals while selling more information to employers, the all-in fees, including those mutual fund investments you may already know about, average 1.08 percent for plans with balances of more than $100 million, 1.36 percent for those with $10 million to $100 million and a whopping 1.90 percent for plans with under $10 million.
So fees matter. And the younger you are, the more you have to gain over decades of compounding by working for an employer who understands just how much of a difference these costs can make.
DEFINING EXCESSIVE FEES So when are retirement plan fees unconscionable?
Employers are supposed to act as a fiduciary when running a retirement plan, which is a legal way of saying that they are supposed to put your interests first. But in the context of fees, they must only keep them ''reasonable.''
And there aren't many specific definitions of what is unreasonable, for a couple of reasons. Benchmarking against other plans has traditionally been difficult, given that employers themselves often don't know exactly what their plan costs. ''If you don't know what everyone else is paying, there is no way to know what is reasonable,'' says Mike Alfred, BrightScope's co-founder and chief executive, whose team has gathered information on 47,000 plans so far and sorted it by peer group.
Then there are the judges, who are often reluctant to issue opinions that dictate a specific figure. Also, lawyers are hesitant to sue, given the enormous amount of time required to prepare excessive fee cases. Then there's the uncertain legal terrain; the ABB case is the first of its kind to actually go to trial, according to Jerome Schlichter, of Schlichter Bogard & Denton in St. Louis, the lead plaintiff's lawyer. And there is still no verdict, well over a year after closing arguments.
''I know they are working on it and working on it very hard,'' said Fran Smith, judicial assistant to Judge Nanette K. Laughrey, of Federal District Court, who presided over the trial. ''It's just a very difficult case.''
DISCLOSING FEES Thankfully, the basic question of what fees you're paying in your 401(k) or 403(b) is about to become easier to answer. Starting in 2012, according to new Labor Department guidelines, investment and other companies like Fidelity, which is a party to the ABB lawsuit, will need to be more clear with employers about how they are charging them.
Employers, in turn, will have to itemize more information on plan fees and expenses on account statements. In addition, they will need to display the costs of each mutual fund or other investment in a way that makes it easier for employees to compare their choices.
While it's not yet clear how all of this will work in practice, there is real potential here for employers, especially executives at smaller ones for whom managing the retirement plan is one of dozens of duties, to get a harsh wake-up call about the size of their annual bill. And even if they don't, their employees may see a menu of high-cost funds staring them in the face and begin to ask for a better plan.
LOWER FEES Until your new and improved account statement arrives, you can check to see if BrightScope has graded your 401(k) or 403(b) plan. If its total plan cost is among the highest in its peer group, you ought to ask for an explanation. Ditto if you run one of BrightScope's personal fee reports on the funds you've selected yourself in your retirement plan and find that you're paying well over 1 percent in total costs.
If you are investing in actively managed mutual funds (perhaps because your employer hasn't seen the light and given you a lineup of low-cost index or exchange-traded funds as an option), keep in mind that those fund companies may be handing some of their investment fees back to your plan's record keeper to pay for administrative costs. Ask about this and inquire whether that's the only reason your employer continues to do business with any high-fee, actively managed funds.
Try not to get too indignant about this, at least at first. At a small employer in uncertain economic times, having a retirement plan in the first place isn't a given. Let your colleagues in human resources or finance know that they, too, will benefit personally if you can find a way to strip out some costs.
Injecting a little emotion into the proceedings may help, too, though threats will probably not be constructive, especially given what happened at ABB. (The gunman there left no note, though he had told friends of troubles at work.)
Again, just a quarter of a percentage point in annual savings now can mean tens of thousands of dollars more come retirement time. Try visualizing it this way, by imagining it as the difference between one vacation each year or two at age 75, or one plane ticket, or several, for the grandchildren to come see you annually. Make sure to remind everyone you talk to of that.
And if it's confusing or even frightening to confront data like this initially, given its importance? Don't throw up your hands or just cross your fingers, as many of your colleagues will do. Instead, find other like-minded people to help you decipher the numbers and start an improvement movement.
''I think 10 to 15 percent of people will always get value out of increased disclosure,'' Mr. Alfred said. ''Most of the time, they are the most influential people at the company, and they're the most likely to tell other people about it.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) (B1
 B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (94%); US 401K PLANS (94%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); LITIGATION (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); APPROVALS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%) MISSOURI, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



129 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: False Choices

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Friday's jobs report was abysmal.
The U.S. added 54,000 jobs in May, far fewer than expected, and the unemployment rate ticked up to 9.1 percent. 
This is the latest in a cavalcade of worrisome economic indicators -- from double-dipping home prices to flagging consumer confidence -- that illustrate just how fragile the recovery has been, just how inadequate and anemic the stimulus was and just how tenuous the government's grip is on the reins.
It is against this backdrop that Republicans have decided to play chicken with the nation's credit -- insisting on spending cuts while steadfastly resisting tax increases.
This is part of the modern doctrine of a compassion-free conservatism that's using the fog of the fiscal crisis to push a program of perverse wealth inequality as sound economic policy: The only way to jump-start the economy is to slash taxes on the wealthy and on companies; the only way to compensate for the deficits that those tax cuts exacerbate is to slash benefits to the poor and vulnerable. It would be comical if it weren't so callous.
Not only is this faulty logic, it's a false choice. We'll need sensible tax increases and sensible spending cuts to address the deficit, and both can be offset to some degree by stronger economic growth. It's not an either-or proposition.
And the wealthy can absorb a bit of a shock because they appear to be doing just fine. Quarterly earnings at luxury retailers like Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue, Movado and, yes, Tiffany all beat expectations, signaling that the rich can still splurge on the carats they wear. Meanwhile, working-class people continue to fret over the carrots they eat.
Furthermore, there is a mound of evidence that corporations are in no need of more tax breaks.
First, the tax burden of American companies is lower than that of other Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries, as economist Bruce Bartlett pointed out this week. Also, a report issued on Wednesday by Citizens for Tax Justice looked at 12 Fortune 500 companies from 2008-10 and found that on $171 billion in profits earned, their effective tax rate was negative-1.5 percent because of corporate loopholes, shelters and special tax breaks.
And, as Time magazine reported in its June 6 issue, ''In the 18 months since the Great Recession, which ended in June 2009, U.S. annualized corporate profits rose 42 percent, to a record $1.68 trillion in the fourth quarter of 2010.''
Corporations aren't hurting. They're hoarding.
Republicans have taken an untenable position on taxation that threatens to not only undermine the country's credit worthiness and push us to the brink of default, it is antithetical to the health and sustenance of a just and striving society.
The full stealing from the plates of the starving simply isn't an American ideal.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Debt Limit, Disengagement and Denial 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); RETAILERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HOME PRICES (57%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



130 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: To Cushion Against Losses, Fed Considers Raising Capital Requirements for Banks

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Determining which financial companies are so large that their failures could pose a risk to the nation's financial system should be done using a ''transparent and replicable'' formula that makes it ''clear to the financial firms, the markets and the public'' what institutions are covered, a Federal Reserve governor said Friday.
The governor, Daniel K. Tarullo, said ''systemically important financial institutions,'' a category specified in the sweeping overhaul of financial regulation enacted last year, would be required to carry substantially higher levels of capital on their books. The levels would act as a cushion against losses, perhaps as much as twice the level specified in new international banking standards. 
''The failure of a systemically important financial institution, especially in a period of stress, significantly increases the chances that other firms will fail,'' Mr. Tarullo said. But because those firms have ''no incentive to reduce the chances of such systemic losses,'' higher capital requirements are necessary ''to make those large, interconnected firms less prone to failure.''
Wall Street is bracing for guidelines as to how federal regulators will decide which companies fall under the ''systemically important'' designation. Mr. Tarullo's remarks, before a group at the Peterson Institute for International Economics here, offered some of the first public details on how regulators are thinking about the rules. The law requires that banks, nonbank financial firms like hedge funds, insurance companies or other institutions that greatly affect the financial system, to be subject to an additional capital requirements to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. The crisis was made worse by the interdependence of many of the largest financial outfits.
Mark A. Calabria, director of financial regulation studies for the Cato Institute, said that among the most interesting details provided by Mr. Tarullo on Friday was that the Fed was considering that the new capital requirements should be imposed on a sliding or tiered scale.
The new Dodd-Frank law requires that the new standards be applied to bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets. But Mr. Tarullo said that he thought there should not be a huge difference in the requirements for a bank with, say, $51 billion in assets and another with $48 billion.
''It seems like he was saying they do not want to draw a line in the sand,'' Mr. Calabria said, ''although the statute seems to require that.''
The possibility of greater capital requirements has caused some financial companies that are dominant in their niche to begin to argue publicly that they are not so ''significant'' after all.
BlackRock, the money manager that manages $3.5 trillion in assets, recently told the Fed that ''for a number of reasons we do not believe that asset management firms should be designated'' as systemically important.
Mr. Tarullo said that the Fed had considered several methods for determining if a company was systemically significant. But, he said, the one approach that ''has had the most influence on our staff's analysis'' was what he called the ''expected impact'' approach, which was intended to equalize the impact on the financial system of the failure of a systemically important firm and a large firm without that designation.
If, for example, the blow to the financial system from the failure of a systemically important firm would be five times the impact of the failure of a nonsystemic firm, the larger company should have to hold enough additional capital to make its expected probability of failure one-fifth that of the smaller firm.
The more important firm, Mr. Tarullo said, should therefore hold capital equal to 20 percent to 100 percent more than the recently heightened banking requirements known as Basel III, which requires banks to maintain capital equal to 7 percent of assets. By that formula, systemically important financial companies might be required to hold capital of 8.4 percent to 14 percent of assets -- a huge increase over the 2 percent that was the standard before the financial crisis.
Banks have argued that heavy new capital requirements will leave them less able to lend money to businesses, drying up credit and hurting the economy. But Mr. Tarullo argued that ''lending could be assumed by smaller banks that do not pose similar systemic risk and thus have lower capital requirements.''
''There may not be perfect substitution, particularly not in the short term,'' he said -- a reason that regulators will allow for a long transition period to apply the new capital requirements.
Nevertheless, he said, ''some checks on the scale of systemically important financial institutions are warranted to avoid a repeat of the financial crisis.''
Related to that, he said the capital requirements should be strict enough that companies are not encouraged to seek designation as systemically important because they think that they will then be ''too big to fail.'' The new regulations should discourage very big firms from getting much larger, ''unless the benefits to society are clearly significant.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel Tarullo, a Fed governor, said the Fed considered several methods for determining if a firm was systemically significant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING LAW (75%); INSURANCE (72%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



131 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Hacking of White House Gmail Affected Diverse Departments

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The computer phishing attack that Google says originated in China was directed, somewhat indiscriminately, at an unknown number of White House staff officials, setting off the Federal Bureau of Investigation inquiry that began this week, according to several administration officials.
It is unclear how many White House staff members -- or those of other departments in the executive branch -- might have been affected, according to two officials with knowledge of the investigation. But the intended victims ranged across various functions in the White House, and were not limited to those working on national security, economic policy or trade areas that would be of particular interest to the Chinese government. 
Administration officials said they had no evidence any confidential information was breached, or even that many people fell for the attack by providing information that would allow a breach of their Gmail accounts.
White House classified systems run on dedicated lines and information on those systems, the officials said, cannot be forwarded to Gmail accounts. But investigators were trying to determine if the attackers believed that some staff members or other officials used their personal e-mail accounts for confidential government communications.
''Right now,'' said one senior official, ''that's a theory, not a fact.''
Google disclosed the attack this week and said that it was directed at not only American government officials, but also human right activists, journalists and South Korea's government. Google tracked the attack to Jinan, China, which is the home to a Chinese military regional command center.
But that does not necessarily mean the attackers were Chinese or related to the government. The Chinese government denied any involvement.
The attack used e-mails that appeared to be tailored to their victims, the better to fool them, a technique known as spear phishing. Recipients were asked to click on a link to a phony Gmail login page that gave the hackers access to their personal accounts.
The attacks come as the United States government considers expanding its use of Web-based software for e-mail, along with word processing, spreadsheets and other kinds of documents. Google is one of the many companies vying for the business with its Apps product, as is Microsoft.
Web based e-mail would be vulnerable to hackers who steal login information through phishing attacks. But Web-based systems are not necessarily any easier to hack than traditional e-mail, which a government agency would usually manage using its own servers, said Larry Ponemon, chairman of the Ponemon Institute, a computer security firm in Traverse City, Mich.
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said on Thursday that all White House-related electronic mail was supposed to be conducted on work e-mail accounts to comply with the Presidential Records Act, which governs how those communications are protected and archived. Mr. Carney said there was no evidence that any White House accounts were compromised.
White House employees are permitted to have private e-mail accounts, he said, but cannot use them for work purposes.
Officials at the White House and other agencies often keep two computers in their offices, one for unclassified work and another for classified. Senior officials sometimes have a ''secure facility'' in their homes, in which computers and telephones are on dedicated lines and communications are encrypted.
Given its size, Google and its Gmail system will always make an attractive target.
Other personal e-mail services, including Yahoo and Microsoft's Hotmail, have faced similar attacks, according to Trend Micro, a computer security company in Cupertino, Calif. ''The types of attacks that are happening against Web mail users aren't confined to Gmail alone and extend to other e-mail platforms,'' said Nart Villeneuve, a senior threat researcher for Trend Micro.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); INTERNET CRIME (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); PHISHING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CLOUD COMPUTING (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (51%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



132 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Ex-SAC Capital Manager Aided Investigators

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
A former portfolio manager at the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors testified in federal court on Friday that he had provided investigators with the names of more than a dozen individuals when he confessed to insider trading.
Noah Freeman, the former portfolio manager, told a jury that he sat down with law-enforcement officials at the end of last year and told them about crimes that he and others had committed.
''How many people did you tell the government about?'' asked Avi Weitzman, a federal prosecutor. 
''At least, in passing, more than a dozen,'' responded Mr. Freeman, 35, a tall, athletic-looking Harvard College graduate. He did not identify whom he had discussed with the government.
He did tell the jury that trading on illegal stock tips at Sonar Capital, the hedge fund he worked at before joining SAC, was part of Sonar's business model.
Mr. Freeman took the witness stand in Federal District Court in Manhattan in the trial of Winifred Jiau, a former consultant at a so-called expert network firm, which connect money managers with industry experts, including public company employees, for a fee.
Federal prosecutors have charged Ms. Jiau with knowingly facilitating the passing of secret information about technology businesses to hedge fund traders.
One of those traders was Mr. Freeman, a main government witness in its case against Ms. Jiau.
His testimony came about six months after two F.B.I. agents stopped him in the parking lot of the Winsor School, an elite private school in Boston, and played a tape recording of him, Ms. Jiau and another hedge fund manager exchanging confidential information.
Mr. Freeman left SAC in January 2010, and the hedge fund industry altogether, and was teaching an advanced economics course at the school. He no longer teaches there.
Mr. Freeman, who has pleaded guilty, faces up to 25 years in prison. But by helping the government gather evidence, he hopes to obtain a lesser sentence. Mr. Freeman's cooperation helped federal prosecutors bring criminal charges against not only Ms. Jiau, but also three other hedge fund employees who were part of Mr. Freeman's insider trading ring. The hedge fund employees - Donald Longueuil, formerly of SAC Capital; Samir Barai of Barai Capital Management; and Jason Pflaum, a colleague of Mr. Barai - have all pleaded guilty. Dressed in a dark suit, white shirt and red Hermes tie, Mr. Freeman spent only a little more than an hour on the witness stand before Judge Jed S. Rakoff dismissed the jury until Monday.
In that short time, he laid out for the jury his 10-year career. After a stint as a consultant at Bain & Company, he said he joined Brookside Capital, the hedge fund arm of Bain Capital Partners, the Boston private equity firm. From there he moved to Sonar Capital, also a Boston hedge fund, where he said he spent three-and-a-half years.
Mr. Freeman said that he had no trading authority at Sonar but worked as an analyst gathering research and providing investment ideas to Neil Druker, the head of the fund. He said that trading on inside information at Sonar ''was regularly employed as part of our business model.''
Neither Sonar nor Mr. Druker has not been charged with any wrongdoing. Mark Hyland, a lawyer for Sonar, said: ''Freeman turned out to be a rogue, dishonest employee who acted without authority and deceived Sonar Capital. Freeman now continues his pattern of deception by falsely seeking to implicate others at Sonar in the hopes of obtaining a lighter sentence for his own criminal acts.''
It was at Sonar that Mr. Freeman said he had met Ms. Jiau. He testified that Ms. Jiau had provided him with the ''complete financials'' for the technology companies Marvell Technology Group and Nvidia, before they were publicly announced. The information, he said, was ''extremely'' helpful.
He left Sonar in early 2008 to start the Boston office for SAC, the giant Stamford, Conn.-based hedge fund run by the billionaire investor Steven A. Cohen. Mr. Freeman said that at SAC he had day-to-day trading authority and at his peak oversaw about $300 million of the fund's money.
His testimony about his work at SAC was cut short when the trial broke for the day.
SAC has not been charged. A spokesman for the firm previously said Mr. Cohen had been ''outraged'' by Mr. Freeman and Mr. Longueil's conduct.
To defuse a potential line of questioning on cross-examination, Mr. Weitzman, the prosecutor, asked Mr. Freeman about his past drug use.
He said he had smoked marijuana regularly for 10 years but stopped in late 2008. He also conceded using mushrooms once, in spring 2009.
''Only once,'' he reiterated. ''It was a terrible experience.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The relationship among traders, including Noah Freeman, as depicted on a prosecutor's chart. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN YANG/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); SENTENCING (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); JUDGES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN & CO (60%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



133 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart to Buy Back Billions More in Shares

BYLINE: By ALISSA SKELTON

 BODY:
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. -- Wal-Mart said on Friday that it would buy back $15 billion more of its shares to try to improve returns for its shareholders.
The initiative, which was announced at the company's annual shareholders' meeting here, comes after a previous $15 billion repurchasing plan that was announced last year. The company bought back 244 million shares, worth about $13 billion, under that program.
Charles Holley, the chief financial officer, said the buyback demonstrated the company's strength and was ''indicative of our strong free cash flow position.'' 
Wal-Mart's shares have lagged the broader market over the last year, despite the repurchase plan and a 21 percent increase in its dividend, to $1.46 a share, in the 2011 fiscal year. On Friday, its shares rose 11 cents, to $53.66.
Investors have focused instead on the company's slumping same-store sales -- a problem that company executives promised to fix.
''We know we are up against some strong economic headwinds through the recession and slow-paced recovery of the last three years,'' Mr. Holley said.
Overall sales increased 4.2 percent in the most recent quarter, but most of that increase came from food purchases. In contrast, Wal-Mart has struggled with apparel sales.
''In the future, you will see less fashion apparel and more basic items, like underwear and T-shirts,'' said William S. Simon, president and chief executive of Wal-Mart's United States operations. ''When it comes to fashion,'' he said, ''customers don't want to see 10,000 others wearing the same clothes.''
To stem the sales declines, Wal-Mart removed some merchandise from store shelves, including plus-size clothes and fabrics. On Friday, Mr. Simon said that 8,500 items would return to the shelves.
In addition, Wal-Mart plans to roll out over the next year 140 to 160 stores in three formats -- the 100,000- or more square-foot superstores, 40,000-square-foot neighborhood markets and new 15,000-square-foot express stores.
The first express stores will open next week in small towns in Arkansas. The first urban express stores will open later this summer in Chicago. The stores are a part of Wal-Mart's effort to serve rural and urban areas.
Higher food and fuel prices are hurting Wal-Mart's mainstay shoppers, and Mr. Simon and other executives emphasized that the company would remain a low-cost operator and provide low prices.
The company is also seeking to bolster sales overseas. Just last week, Wal-Mart received approval to acquire Massmart Holdings of South Africa for $2.4 billion.
Shareholder proposals at the meeting related to climate change, gender discrimination policy, political donations and its suppliers' compliance with international human and workers' rights were all defeated.
Michael T. Duke, Wal-Mart's chief executive, said the company was recruiting more women and minorities. It is still facing a federal class-action lawsuit that accuses Wal-Mart of sex discrimination.
As in years past, the shareholders' meeting, which is held near the company's headquarters in Bentonville, was equal parts pop concert and pep rally. The host this year was the actor Will Smith, and performers included the winner of the 10th season of American Idol, Scotty McCreery, in addition to Alicia Keys, the Black Eyed Peas and the Canadian Tenors.
Wal-Mart workers traveled from around the world for the meeting. They did the Wal-Mart cheer with the squiggly dance move several times. Each time an executive referred to the success of Wal-Mart's Sam's Club unit, Sam's Club employees erupted with cheering and noisemakers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Holley, Wal-Mart's finance chief, says the retailer is facing ''economic headwinds.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETH HALL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CASH FLOW (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); FOOD PRICES (70%); FABRICS (65%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); MASSMART HOLDINGS LTD (50%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); MSM (JSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (50%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



134 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Between Young and Old, a Political Collision

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
LAKEWOOD, Colo. -- Economic wreckage in America's older population is easy to find in the ashes of recession. And when combined with the politics of a presidential election next year and talk in Congress of cuts to the system of health and economic support for retirees, the result could be volatile.
In dozens of interviews over three weeks in this rapidly aging suburb of Denver, people talked about a collision of interests, and perhaps even more crucial, of generations. On one side are younger voters who are championing cuts in spending; on the other, older ones who want to retain the services they counted on getting when they retired.
Specific government programs like Medicare are at issue. Beyond that, many people said they perceived a deeper debate about fairness, equity and -- at its core -- starkly different visions of the nation's future and how public resources should be allotted in a time of straitened circumstances. 
Last month's special election for a Congressional seat in western New York, which turned in large part on older voters, offered a preview of the tensions. The Democratic candidate's attacks on a Republican plan to overhaul Medicare seemed to resonate in the district, where a majority of the registered voters are 45 or older.
''The outcome there certainly suggests that there is an old-age Medicare voting bloc,'' said Robert H. Binstock, a political scientist who studies aging at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland.
Older voters have always tended to turn out more heavily than others at the polls, especially when they have issues at stake. But in the past, their generational differences with younger voters, at least in presidential voting, have been less clear. Now they are being mobilized by groups like AARP, which recently issued a national appeal to members.
''You should not have to worry that you can't afford to visit your doctor,'' the appeal said. ''We need to flood the halls of Congress with letters telling them to keep unfair cuts to Medicare and Social Security out of the discussion.''
In just two weeks, more than 200,000 e-mails filled inboxes in Washington.
Some experts say they believe a genuinely distinct older voting bloc could emerge. But either way, they say, there is no doubt that a season of political focus on the issues of aging -- and a search by both parties for the allegiance of older voters -- has begun.
''Age is up for grabs,'' said Fernando Torres-Gil, the director of the Center for Policy Research on Aging at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''In the last election it was about the young vote, and Hispanic vote -- this time the issue is age.''
In interviews here in Jefferson County -- politically mixed, with more baby boomers than any other county in battleground Colorado -- many people said that their views and hopes about retirement, or the prospect of it around the corner, had fundamentally changed since the economic downturn.
Lin Stevens, 56, was attending a job-search class at a local shopping mall with her husband, Rick Craig, who has managed to find only temporary work in recent years. Their unemployment checks have run out, Ms. Stevens said, and they have no health insurance.
''My investments took a bath,'' she said, ''then being out of work for a few years -- I'm sorry, but there's not that much left. I'm going to need Social Security and Medicare.''
Their politics are in flux too. Ms. Stevens drifted from Republican roots to vote for President Obama in 2008 and plans to do so again next year. Mr. Craig, who also voted for Mr. Obama, said he was less certain about 2012.
The landscape of battered states and municipalities agonizing over public employee pensions and benefits and cuts to school programs has already put older interests and younger interests at potential loggerheads -- and set the table for the debate about how society should divide its resources.
''There could be an opportunity to talk about what kind of society we want,'' said Nancy LeaMond, an executive vice president at AARP. She said that the needs of all generations have to be balanced, and that AARP members are worried about their children and grandchildren as cuts to education and other programs ripple through budget-battered states.
Whether the New York special election -- won by the Democrat, Kathy Hochul, in a Republican-dominated district -- portends anything for the 2012 general election or not, there is little doubt that among older voters, the tinder is dry. In that election, Ms. Hochul relentlessly pilloried her opponent as hostile to Medicare.
After her victory, the Democratic talking points often came down to a single sentence: Voters were saying no to the Republican budget overhaul plan put forward by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the House Budget Committee chairman, under which Medicare payments would be used to buy private insurance.
Republicans said the New York result reflected the strengths and weaknesses of the local candidates, not a broad national debate about Medicare or anything else.
A spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, Kirsten Kukowski, conceded, however, that communication of Republican ideas on Medicare had probably fallen short. She said that a campaign aimed partly at older voters and arguing that Democrats have no long-term plan to save the program would set the record straight in coming months.
There are also reasons other than Medicare uncertainties for the anxiety among older voters.
At least 29 states have already cut financing for programs that serve the elderly and disabled, according to a report this year by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research and advocacy group for low and moderate income people.
People over 65 had the fastest rate of growth in bankruptcy filings of any demographic group even before the recession, according to a study last year by the University of Michigan Law School.
And the National Council on Aging, a nonprofit advocacy group, estimates that 13 million older Americans are economically insecure, living on $22,000 or less, and that age discrimination in the aftermath of the recession is rampant.
For older Democrats and Republicans alike, national polls say, tough times have focused many minds on Medicare and Social Security and other government programs as politicians talk more openly about addressing the nation's huge deficit. An Associated Press-GfK poll last month said that 54 percent of Americans thought the deficit could be cut without touching Medicare.
Meanwhile, the complexion older voters is shifting, as tens of millions of baby boomers who cast their first presidential votes in the 1960s-'70s era of civil rights and social rebellion approach or enter retirement.
Dr. Binstock, of Case Western, said it is too soon to tell which party will ultimately win over older voters in 2012. Republicans did well among people over 60 in last year's midterm elections, and also in 2008, when exit polling indicated that older voters were more likely to favor repeal of the Democrat-led health care overhaul than younger voters.
But as the election approaches, the struggles of older people will no doubt fill television screens and advertisements. Consider, for example, Roseann Atencio's recent television close-up.
A nonprofit group that works with older people in the Denver area recently chose Ms. Atencio, 62, a widowed former school lunch worker and a Democrat, as a profile subject for a documentary aiming to influence members of Congress.
Her struggles, from high blood pressure to finances, are real; she recently put her modest home up for sale because she said she cannot afford the upkeep. And her struggles in the videotaped interview in her kitchen were real, too -- she had to be prompted to say some of the crucial lines that the filmmakers wanted, notably, ''Please Pass the Older Americans Act.''
But her resolve and passion were the stuff that political ad makers dream about.
''Just make yourself heard,'' she said, when asked about advice for other older people. ''Don't be afraid to speak up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Roseann Atencio, 62, recently took part in a documentary intended to influence Congress on issues concerning older voters. (A10)
Mark Smiley of the Seniors' Resource Center in Wheat Ridge, Colo., previews a documentary on issues of concern to the elderly.
 Roseann Atencio's health and economic struggles led to her selection as a speaker on such topics for the documentary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AGING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ELDER HEALTH (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (70%) COLORADO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



135 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut House Debates Requiring Sick Day Pay

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
The Connecticut House of Representatives debated late into Friday night as members considered a bill that would make Connecticut the nation's first state to mandate that some employers provide paid sick days to employees. 
The State Senate approved the bill on May 25 in an 18-to-17 vote, with one Republican voting in favor and five Democrats opposed.
The House has 52 Republicans and 99 Democrats. None of the Republicans are considered likely to approve the measure, but party officials concede that getting enough Democratic votes to kill it would be a challenge. The Republicans on Friday had drawn up about 100 amendments and were promising a contentious and protracted debate.
The issue is being closely followed nationally, as liberal groups have presented similar legislation in other states and cities. The bill would require only service companies with 50 or more workers to provide paid sick days.
The measure was significantly toned down from earlier versions, but opponents raised the same objections, that the bill was antibusiness and counterproductive at a time of high unemployment and low job creation in a state that has consistently lagged behind the nation in creating jobs. Proponents said it offered major and overdue protections for workers and for the public health, particularly at a time when workers' rights were under attack.
Manufacturing companies and nationally chartered nonprofit organizations would be exempt. The bill would not cover day laborers or temporary workers. It would apply only to service workers, a broad category that includes waiters, cashiers, crossing guards and hairstylists. The proposal would allow each covered employee to earn one hour of paid sick time for every 40 hours worked, with the number of days capped at five a year.
The legislation has been a major priority for Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, who lobbied wavering senators to support the bill. He has pledged to sign the bill if it reaches his desk. Mr. Malloy, who is in his first term, made the issue an important part of his platform during his campaign against Ned Lamont in the Democratic primary last year.
''This piece of legislation is a reasonable compromise that represents good public policy,'' he said in a statement after the Senate passed it. ''It exempts industries where appropriate, it ensures that the benefit won't be abused, and most importantly, it protects public health. It shouldn't be the case that people who are frontline service workers -- people who serve us food, who care for our children and who work in hospitals, for example -- are forced to go to work sick to keep their jobs.''
But Republicans said the bill was onerous and ill timed. They said that it would put an excessive burden on companies that had to provide paid sick days and that its language provided a broad cause of action for any employees who claimed their employment was unfairly affected by using paid sick days.
The Senate Republican leader, John McKinney, said the bill would give other states one more argument in competing for companies and jobs, but he seemed resigned to House passage.
Assuming it passes, he said, ''by being the first state in the nation to pass a paid sick leave mandate, Connecticut has further cemented its reputation as being an unfriendly place to do business.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



136 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Assessing the Value of Owning Dividend-Paying Stocks

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
THE first security I was ever aware of was a dividend-paying stock, the AT&T shares that my grandfather, a retired postman, owned when I was little. Those shares along with some other dividend-paying stocks formed the foundation of his nest egg. By reinvesting his dividends, he was able to amass sizable savings for someone who probably never earned more than $20,000 a year.
So when I heard recently that some advisers were using dividend-paying stocks to coax people who still hold their money in cash or low-yielding bonds back into the equity markets, my ears perked up.
After all, dividend-paying stocks were largely ignored in the high-growth years for much of the past two decades. Companies that pay dividends, like Coca-Cola, McDonald's, Caterpillar and Johnson & Johnson, are established corporations with none of the go-go appeal of a technology start-up. 
On the other hand, the people running those start-ups often had (and still do have) a good portion of their compensation tied up in stock options. And those options become more attractive the higher the stock price goes, making growth much more important than returning any capital to investors through dividends.
And until President George W. Bush's tax changes in 2003, dividends were taxed at ordinary income tax rates, not the lower capital gains rate.
''The way the tax code was written, it made companies go for capital gains over dividends,'' said Jason Trennert, managing director at Strategas Research Partners. ''It made people make imprudent decisions. Dividends remind executives four times a year that it's not their company.''
Mr. Trennert said that many clients of Strategas, which has headquarters in New York, are reporting increased interest in dividend-paying stocks. That could produce a chicken and egg situation of companies increasing or initiating dividends if investors are asking for them. The advisers and analysts I spoke to who favored dividend-paying stocks as a crucial part of anyone's portfolio were divided into two camps.
The first offered more sentimental reasons. Kenneth Kamen, president of Mercadien Asset Management in Hamilton, N.J., said he had a relative in his 80s who has held a handful of dividend-paying stocks since the 1970s. Until recently, he reinvested the dividends to buy more shares. But with the stocks now worth more than $1 million and with the average dividend yield of 4.5 percent, the relative stopped reinvesting the dividends and now receives $61,000 a year in income.
Mr. Kamen said his relative's rationale back in the 1970s is still sound: if the company paid a dividend, it was probably sound. ''He said, 'We didn't have access to all this information,' '' Mr. Kamen said. ''Dividend-paying stocks represented an interesting form of research for him. You can't fake cash.''
The second group considers these stocks to be a counterweight to portfolios excessively weighted toward supersafe investments, since the performance of those investments is going to lag over time.
Catherine Avery, who runs an investment advisory company under her name in New Canaan, Conn., said she is telling her clients that 54 percent of the returns in stocks since 1928 have come from dividends. Ms. Avery also notes that companies like Johnson & Johnson and Emerson Electric have maintained unbroken streaks of increasing their dividends -- 49 years in the case of Johnson & Johnson and 53 years for Emerson.
She said she has been making these points to encourage clients who have resisted investing in equities since the recession to buy stocks again. ''They missed two big years in the markets,'' she said. ''Now we're reaching out to people and telling them this is your dead last chance to get back into the market at attractive valuations.''
The reality, though, is most people own dividend-paying stocks even if they don't think of them in those terms. At the end of 2010, 373 companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index paid dividends. That is nearly 75 percent of the companies in the index that most investors track.
What follows is a more detailed assessment of the pros and cons of owning dividend-paying stocks.
THE UPSIDES All things being equal, dividend-paying stocks have several advantages.
Devotees like to point to their stability over the long term. Haverford Trust, which manages $6.5 billion, has all $3.5 billion of its equity allocation in dividend-paying stocks, said Hank Smith, chief investment officer of Haverford, in Radnor, Pa.
If a client 30 years ago had put a $1,000 each into Johnson & Johnson, Coca-Cola and Procter & Gamble and reinvested the dividends, the firm calculates that that $3,000 would be worth $223,982 today. But over that same period, $3,000 invested in the S.& P. 500 would now be worth $64,668, and that money in 30-year Treasury bonds would have grown to $89,399, according to S.& P. indexes.
These exercises are always eye-opening but selective. Enron, WorldCom and Lehman Brothers also paid dividends to shareholders, who have long since seen the value of their holdings go to zero.
Mr. Smith argued that for passive, long-term investors, which many people are, dividend-paying stocks offer more comfort. ''If you're buying a stock for its dividend yield, why should you care about the day-to-day fluctuation of the stock price as long as it's paying its dividend?'' he said. ''Do bond investors worry about fluctuation day to day?''
While these stocks are going to lag behind any big rally, they are also going to fall more slowly. ''During the bear market, in 2008, when the S.& P. was off 37 percent, we were off 25 percent,'' Mr. Smith said.
These stocks also offer at least some sort of hedge against inflation. A typical high-quality corporate bond is going to pay the same yield today as it will in 10 years. That could be a problem if the rate of inflation increases since that would effectively erode the value of the fixed coupon.
With dividend-paying stocks, companies could raise prices and then increase the dividends to keep pace with inflation. ''Dividends play a hybrid role that they didn't in the past,'' Mr. Kamen said. ''You don't get that in bonds.''
The tradeoff is a stock's price could swing widely, whereas a high-quality bond would stay the course.
DOWNSIDES The two big risks come from how quickly the economy grows -- and thus how much cash companies have to pay dividends -- and what policy makers do with taxes.
When the extension to the Bush tax codes expires in 2012, dividends could again be taxed at the ordinary income tax rate. This is how they were taxed for much for the bull market of the 1980s and 1990s.
''It's a concern of ours,'' Ms. Avery said. But, she added, ''we believe there is enough cash sitting on corporate balance sheets that they do have the ability to increase those dividends to make the end product more attractive to investors.''
There is third, short-term concern. Right now, low interest rates make dividends attractive. As interest rates rise, which they will eventually, dividend-paying stocks become less attractive because their yields are unlikely to keep pace with the yields from high-quality corporate debt.
Jeremy Zirin, chief United States equity strategist at UBS Wealth Management, which has headquarters in New York, said one way to measure this is to look at the relationship between average dividend yield and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note. Right now, the dividend yield is about 2 percent while the 10-year Treasury is paying 3.5 percent.
This means these dividends are about 65 percent of the yield of Treasuries. Historically, when that ratio dips below 50 percent, dividend-paying stocks become less attractive. ''We have a ways to go,'' Mr. Zirin said.
But of course, Mr. Kamen's relative would say that a decrease in the price of a dividend-paying stock is not all bad: it means the reinvestment plan buys more shares. That was exactly what my grandfather did.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ken Kamen, president of Mercadien Asset Management in Hamilton, N.J. He regards dividends as a safe bet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (86%); BONDS (75%); INCOME TAX (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (65%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%); COCA-COLA CO (56%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (69%); KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



137 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Favors Stock Sale By U.A.W. Retiree Trust

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
TOLEDO, Ohio -- Chrysler's chief executive said Friday that a public stock offering remained the preferred method for a health care trust to sell its ownership stake in the Detroit automaker. 
Chrysler's Italian partner Fiat has the option to buy the trust's shares, which account for a 45.7 percent stake in the company, and forgo a public offering. But while the executive, Sergio Marchionne, acknowledged the possibility of a direct purchase, he said a stock offering appeared to be the most prudent exit strategy for the retirees.
''I still look at the I.P.O. as the easiest way to monetize it,'' Mr. Marchionne said of the stake owned by the United Automobile Workers' voluntary employee beneficiary association, or VEBA.
Speaking after President Obama's visit to Chrysler's Jeep assembly plant in this northern Ohio city, Mr. Marchionne also said that a Chrysler stock offering would probably not be done until 2012.
''I think we need an additional track record of performance,'' he said.
The president's visit came a day after Fiat agreed to pay $500 million to the Treasury Department to acquire the 6 percent ownership stake that American taxpayers have held in Chrysler since it emerged from bankruptcy two years ago.
In addition, Fiat paid $75 million to the United States and Canadian governments for the right to buy the big ownership stake held by VEBA.
Fiat's deal to buy the Treasury shares will give the Italian company a 52 percent stake in Chrysler, and accelerate the integration of the two automakers. It also concluded the American government's stewardship of Chrysler, the smallest of Detroit's Big Three car makers. Mr. Marchionne is the head of both Fiat and Chrysler.
Chrysler and General Motors were rescued from financial collapse by the Bush and Obama administrations after the two companies ran out of operating funds in late 2008.
After the sale of its shares to Fiat, the government will have recouped about $11.2 billion of the $12.5 billion that it invested in Chrysler. The remaining $1.3 billion -- which went to the corporate shell of ''old Chrysler'' -- will most likely be written off.
The Canadian government also lent money to Chrysler and continues to hold a 1.7 percent stake in the company. Mr. Marchionne said that Fiat was currently in talks to acquire those shares.
Once that is completed, Fiat will essentially own all the Chrysler stock that is not held by the VEBA.
But while Fiat has the resources to acquire the shares of the health care trust, Mr. Marchionne said such a transaction could be prohibitively expensive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sergio Marchionne, Chrysler's chief executive, said that a Chrysler stock offering would probably not be done until 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (74%) OHIO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



138 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Slowdown in Hiring Clouds Economic Outlook

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
After several months of strong job growth, hiring in the United States slowed sharply in May, suggesting the economy may be running out of steam once again.
The Labor Department reported on Friday that the nation added 54,000 nonfarm payroll jobs last month, after an increase of about 220,000 jobs in each of the three previous months. The gain in May was about a third of what economists had been forecasting. The unemployment rate, meanwhile, edged up to 9.1 percent from 9.0 percent in April.
''The economy clearly just hit a brick wall,'' said Paul Ashworth, chief United States economist at Capital Economics. ''It's almost as if it came to a complete standstill.''
While most analysts do not believe that the country will slide back into a recession -- which would technically mean that the economy would start shrinking again -- they acknowledge that with such low levels of hiring, the recovery is barely perceptible to many Americans. 
In Washington, today's hiring challenges have been receiving less attention than tomorrow's fiscal ones. But a week of dismal news on manufacturing, housing and car sales may shift the discussion. Some pressure is building on the Obama administration and Congress to delay federal spending cuts, which economists say will weigh down the fragile recovery. Liberal groups have renewed their calls for more aid to the states and more aggressive action from the Federal Reserve.
In some ways the moment is reminiscent of a year ago, when the economy also slowed abruptly just as it seemed to be gaining momentum. At the time, the slowdown was attributed to worries over the European debt crisis, just as Friday's report was partly attributed to temporary stresses from higher energy prices and natural disasters. Last year's downshift was followed by additional federal spending and another round of asset purchases by the Federal Reserve.
In remarks to Chrysler workers in Toledo, Ohio, President Obama conceded that the economy was still weak, and that policy makers had more work to do.
''Even though the economy is growing, even though it's created more than two million jobs over the past 15 months, we still face some tough times,'' he said. ''You know, it's just like if you had a bad illness, if you got hit by a truck, it's going to take a while for you to mend. And that's what's happened to our economy. It's taking a while to mend.''
Republicans, meanwhile, countered that Democratic efforts to revive growth through public spending programs have failed and renewed their calls for sharp cuts in federal spending and regulation to spur corporate investment.
Though the White House cautioned against putting too much weight on one report, Friday's release showed disturbing trends across the economy.
Job growth for April and March was revised downward. State and local governments, struggling with severe budget shortfalls, continued to shed jobs in May. They are expected to keep laying off workers for months to come.
Private companies added jobs, but the pace of hiring fell to its lowest level in a year. The biggest gains were in professional and business services and in health care services, which grew steadily even during the recession.
One particularly unsettling note was the lack of a pickup in temporary help services. Temp hiring is considered a bellwether for broader hiring, since employers often try out temporary employees when considering whether to take on additional permanent staff. Employment in temporary help services was essentially unchanged in May and April.
Another leading indicator -- the length of the workweek -- was also disappointing. Usually businesses have existing employees work longer hours before hiring more workers. But the average did not budge in May.
Manufacturers delivered another blow by ending a six-month streak of job gains. They instead eliminated 5,000 jobs in May.
''They were our bright spot for so many months,'' said Heather Boushey, a senior economist at the Center for American Progress, a liberal research organization. ''They were what was pulling the economy forward.''
Stock prices had fallen earlier in the week as expectations about the jobs report had deteriorated. The latest numbers initially sent markets tumbling on Friday, with oil prices and bond yields declining. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 133 points, or 1.1 percent, within minutes after the opening bell, though stocks later recovered some of those losses.
For the last few months, economists had been predicting that the recovery was speeding up and that a sharper bounce-back was imminent, only to be disappointed again and again. They are now left to hope that once certain temporary problems pass -- like the automotive supply chain disruption caused by the Japanese earthquake and tsunami, and higher oil prices caused by unrest in the Middle East -- a robust recovery will finally burrow out from beneath the rubble.
''You are always going to have some good things and some bad things that happen, always,'' said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse. ''Why do the downs feel so much more threatening these days? Because economic growth should be much faster. Any little adversity feels much worse when growth is so much closer to zero.''
Research from economists like Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff has shown that recoveries after financial crises are often slow and bumpy. But policy makers have been more focused on fiscal concerns -- pushed by a recent warning from Moody's about the country's credit rating -- as opposed to finding ways to accelerate the recovery.
''My fervent hope is that this shocks policy makers into realizing the most urgent problem in front of us right now is jobs,'' said Ms. Boushey.
Economists said that the pace of job growth thus far has been too slow to reverse much of the damage wrought by the recession, which has left nearly 14 million people unemployed. Six million have now been out of work for more than six months.
''There are just so many people jumping around with great specialized resumes and willing to work for nothing,'' said Bob Hiller, 64, an architect in Tucson who was laid off in October 2009. ''It's hard to compete.''
Mr. Hiller's jobless benefits will soon run out because Arizona's Legislature never updated a state law that would allow workers to receive more federal money. Unable to find work, he is trying to start an architectural consulting business to help older people renovate their homes to accommodate them as they age.
''Everybody seems to think it's a great idea and that I should do it,'' he said, ''but it's hard to take it to the next level when I barely have enough money to keep the lights on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An unemployed man in Florida making an appeal. Nearly 14 million people remain jobless. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) CHARTS: The Labor Picture in May (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); EURO CRISIS (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (52%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



139 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Won't Become Isolationist, Gates Tells Worried Asian Leaders

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
SINGAPORE -- Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates pledged Saturday that the United States would sustain its military presence and diplomatic involvement in Asia, as he sought to calm regional worries about the potential for a new isolationism brought on by fiscal difficulties at home.
In a speech before an audience of Asian defense ministers and military commanders, which included a high-ranking delegation from China, Mr. Gates declared that Washington would not step back from its responsibilities to defend allies, counterbalance regional threats and assist in humanitarian disasters. 
He acknowledged the grim economic and political realities facing the American government, saying that ''fighting two protracted and costly wars in Iraq and Afghanistan has strained the U.S. military's ground forces, and worn out the patience and appetite of the American public for similar interventions in the future.''
Even so, he said, ''We recognize that the American defense engagement -- from our forward deployed forces to exercises with regional partners -- will continue to play an indispensable role in the stability of the region.''
Even as it sustains overseas military bases and continues exercises with allies, the Pentagon also has plans for ''establishing a defense posture across the Asia-Pacific that is more geographically distributed, operationally resilient and politically sustainable,'' Mr. Gates said.
He stressed the unwavering commitment to allies like Japan and South Korea, which are closest to the North Korean threat, and he promised that the Defense Department was enhancing the American presence in Southeast Asia and the Indian Ocean.
The defense secretary's speech, to the annual Shangri-La Dialogue sponsored by the International Institute for Strategic Studies, was cast in the expected diplomatic language and did not specifically cite the risks posed by China's expanding military capabilities. That was, in part, because of the presence of China's minister of defense, Gen. Liang Guanglie.
Mr. Gates made certain to strike a conciliatory tone with China, praising Washington and Beijing for working together ''to build a positive, cooperative and comprehensive relationship.''
But even as the Pentagon complies with an order by President Obama to cut $400 billion in military spending by 2023, Mr. Gates said that the Defense Department would find money for ''air superiority and mobility, long-range strike, nuclear deterrence, maritime access, space and cyber, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance.''
''Many of those key modernization programs would address one of the principal security challenges we see growing over the horizon: The prospect that new and disruptive technologies and weapons could be employed to deny U.S. forces access to key sea routes and lines of communications,'' he said.
China is the lone Asian power with an extensive program to develop exactly those kinds of antiaccess weapons.
During a closed-door session late Friday, Mr. Gates and General Liang both cited the progress in enhancing relations between the two nations' militaries, according to a senior Defense Department official, who described the conversation as cordial.
The official said the Chinese delegation had raised the expected complaints about American arms sales to Taiwan, which Beijing considers a rogue province, and had objected to missions by American reconnaissance ships and aircraft in international space off China's coast.
Mr. Gates said in his speech that the Navy and Air Force were preparing over the coming weeks to release a new ''air-sea battle'' strategy, an effort intended ''to ensure that America's military will continue to be able to deploy, move and strike over great distances in defense of our allies and vital interests.''
He also said the United States and Australia were discussing increased naval cooperation, along with the potential for expanded American access to improved Australian bases within reach of the Indian Ocean.
And the United States and Singapore, he said, were examining programs to store supplies in Singapore, in particular in response to natural disasters; to expand the number of American warships making stops here; and to increase joint training programs.
''In the coming years, the United States military is also going to be increasing its port calls, naval engagements and multilateral training efforts with multiple countries throughout the region,'' Mr. Gates said. ''These types of activities not only broaden and deepen our relationship with friends and allies, but help build partner capacity to address regional challenges.''
When taken together, Mr. Gates concluded, ''all of these developments demonstrate the commitment of the United States to sustaining a robust military presence in Asia -- one that underwrites stability by supporting and reassuring allies while deterring, and if necessary defeating, potential adversaries.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, left, met his Chinese counterpart, Gen. Liang Guanglie, right, on Friday in Singapore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (91%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (95%); SINGAPORE (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



140 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
HOUSE REBUKES OBAMA
OVER STAYING IN LIBYA
The House of Representatives voted to rebuke President Obama for continuing to maintain an American role in NATO operations in Libya without the express consent of Congress and directed the administration to provide information about the cost and objectives of the American role in the conflict. Page A4
EX-SPY CHIEF'S WARNING 
The man who ran Israel's Mossad spy agency until January contends that Israel's top leaders lack judgment and that the anticipated pressures of international isolation as the Palestinians campaign for statehood could lead to rash decisions -- like an airstrike on Iran. Page A4
GATES MAKES PLEDGE TO ASIA
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates pledged that the United States would sustain its military presence and diplomatic involvement in Asia, as he sought to calm regional worries about the potential for a new isolationism brought on by fiscal difficulties at home. Page A5
GRAVE ASSESSMENT FOR CHINA
China's three decades of rapid economic growth have left it with a ''very grave'' environmental situation even as it tries to move away from a development-at-all-costs strategy, senior government officials said. Page A7
National
ALABAMA IMMIGRATION BILL
CALLED TOUGHEST IN THE U.S.
Alabama has passed a sweeping bill to crack down on illegal immigrants that supporters and opponents both say is the toughest one of its kind in the country, going well beyond a law Arizona passed last year that caused a furor there. Page A10
EDWARDS CASE A CHALLENGE
The criminal case against John Edwards on misuse of campaign funds will be a challenge for federal prosecutors, experts in campaign finance and corruption said. Page A11
New York
IN HANDBALL, GRAY AREAS
CAN BE TRICKY TO NAVIGATE
Street handball, played in pickup games, and its more legitimate counterpart, played in organized leagues, are colliding with each other. Caught in between are two young players, disqualified from the New York City high school tournament for entering a competition that awarded cash prizes. Page A18
Obituaries
RAY BRYANT, 79
He was a jazz pianist whose sensitivity and easy authority made him a busy accompanist and a successful solo artist beginning in the mid-1950s. Page A19
Business
NEW PHOTO-SHARING APPS
ATTRACT MILLIONS OF USERS
Digital camera sales may be weak, but thanks to cellphones, picture-taking has never been more of an everyday thing. Now a wave of mobile applications is letting people tweak their cellphone snaps and share them with friends and strangers. Page B1
EX-SAC OFFICIAL TESTIFIES
A former portfolio manager at the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors testified in federal court that he had provided investigators with the names of more than a dozen individuals when he confessed to insider trading. Page B4
HACK AIMED AT WHITE HOUSE
The computer phishing scam that Google says originated in China was directed, somewhat indiscriminately, at an unknown number of White House staff officials, setting off the F.B.I. investigation that began this week, according to several administration officials. Page B2
Arts
'DALLAS' MEMORABILIA
OFFERED AT AUCTION
Larry Hagman, who brought the smirking oil baron J. R. Ewing to life on ''Dallas,'' is auctioning off his collection of memorabilia and estate items from his days on the show at Julien's Auctions in California. Page C1
Sports
NADAL AND FEDERER TO MEET
IN ROLAND GARROS FINAL
Rafael Nadal beat Andy Murray in straight sets, setting up a matchup with Roger Federer, who put an end to Novak Djokovic's streak of 43 straight victories. Page D1
Op-ed
JOE NOCERA PAGE A21
CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (84%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); IMMIGRATION (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); ESPIONAGE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CYBERCRIME (69%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (66%); INTERNET CRIME (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (65%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (64%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (64%); PHISHING (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); INSIDER TRADING (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); ARMED FORCES (54%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (52%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (60%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ROBERT M GATES (73%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



141 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Obama Lauds Bailout at Visit to Chrysler Plant

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
TOLEDO, Ohio -- If the 2012 election is about the economy, as most people think, then President Obama's visit on Friday to this struggling manufacturing city on the Ohio-Michigan border captured as well as any day could the complicated campaign he is likely to face -- playing both offense and defense, taking credit and deflecting blame.
In the center of auto country and straddling two political swing states, Mr. Obama visited a Chrysler plant here to hail the auto industry's comeback two years after he approved a $60 billion conditional bailout for Chrysler and General Motors, and to receive the gratitude of hundreds of enthusiastic employees. 
''Thanks for saving my job,'' one young man told him at shift change. On the assembly line a woman spun around, to show the words ''Thank you'' on her T-shirt's back.
Yet Mr. Obama left Washington that morning with a fresh reminder of just how many millions more people remained out of work -- the news that the government's monthly jobs report showed a slump in the growth of hiring in the private sector and an increase in the unemployment rate to 9.1 percent.
He never directly addressed the jobs report in a speech that mixed celebration for the auto industry's revival and sober acknowledgment of lingering pain in the general economy. By contrast, last month when Mr. Obama also visited a factory, in Maryland, a far-better jobs report merited positive mention in his remarks. When Mr. Obama later made a stop at a hardware store, he ignored a reporter's shouted question about the data.
In the third year of his presidency, Mr. Obama can claim credit for helping to bring the country back from the brink of financial collapse and out of the deepest recession since the Great Depression, but not for a full economic recovery.
The jobs report is just one of several recent indicators of continued weakness that underscore how improbable it is that the economic picture will be much better -- if it gets better at all -- before voters make up their minds next year. And this summer Mr. Obama faces a big test of whether he can reach agreement with Congressional Republicans to significantly reduce a mounting federal debt -- a challenge with implications for the economy, as another Wall Street rating firm warned this week, as well as for Mr. Obama's re-election prospects.
''Now, I don't want to pretend like everything is solved,'' Mr. Obama told about 350 Chrysler workers, as he shifted from praising the success of the bailout. ''We've still got a long way to go not just in this industry, but in our economy.'' He compared the economy to a person who had been hit by a truck -- ''It's taking a while to mend.''
Mr. Obama acknowledged that as happy as the workers were to have their jobs assembling the Jeep Wrangler, ''there's nobody here who doesn't know someone who is looking for work and hasn't found something yet.'' (''Right!'' a man yelled.)
''Headwinds'' keep buffeting the recovery, Mr. Obama said -- lately in the form of high gas prices, economic disruptions from Japan's post-earthquake devastation and instability in the Middle East. And he warned of more ups and downs ahead.
''There are always going to be bumps on the road to recovery,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We're going to pass through some rough terrain that even a Wrangler would have a hard time with.'' (''No!'' another loyal worker shouted.)
More than perhaps any of Mr. Obama's presidential trips to date, this one had the feel of a campaign swing.
The president's factory visit was sandwiched between his stops at Rudy's Hot Dog, a landmark diner, and at Fred's Pro Hardware Store near the Chrysler plant, which Mr. Obama visited to illustrate that the bailout had helped not just auto companies but also parts suppliers and the small businesses in the communities around the manufacturing plants.
Just like a candidate, he stood coatless and in rolled shirtsleeves at a plant gate during shift change, greeting the departing employees one by one. And more than usual, he went out of his way to greet people, lingering at the airport's fence when he arrived and crossing the street from the hardware store to glad-hand the gathered locals, one of whom held aloft a hastily scribbled sign that said ''Keep Working 4 the Working Class.''
Taking credit for the controversial decision to rescue the auto companies has become a staple of Mr. Obama's stump speeches and is likely to remain so through his re-election campaign, especially given the importance of the industry to the swing states of Ohio and Michigan, as well as to Wisconsin and Indiana; Missouri, another major auto-manufacturing state, increasingly leans Republican and Mr. Obama narrowly lost it in 2008.
''In a weak economy it's all the more important for Obama to have examples like the auto industry where he can point to his willingness to do what he thought was right for jobs even when it was politically controversial to do it,'' said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster.
But David Winston, a Republican strategist and an adviser to the House speaker, John A. Boehner, a Republican who represents an Ohio district far south of Toledo, said taking credit for segments of the economy would not help if the overall economy remains weak. ''It's the macro-situation that matters in terms of how people are going to ultimately view his success or lack thereof with the economy,'' Mr. Winston said. To the extent Mr. Obama boasts selectively, ''that tends to reinforce the idea, 'Maybe he's disconnected.' ''
Obama advisers, however, see the auto rescue as a valuable talking point beyond the affected states.
''The auto companies tell a story about the president's economic leadership, the tough decision he made and how that's reaped great results for people all across this country,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. ''If the overwhelming number of Republicans had had their way two years ago, G.M. and Chrysler would be gone and so would a million jobs in communities all across this country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama said the economy was ''taking a while to mend'' on a visit to a Chrysler plant in Toledo, Ohio, on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (89%) OHIO, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011



142 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Nicholas D. Kristof)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Reader Comments on Sunday's Column

BYLINE: NICHOLAS KRISTOF


HIGHLIGHT: Readers comment on my column about where Tea Party or Republican budget policies may take us.

 BODY:
My Sunday column perhaps contains a hint of bile: it reflects my distress at where the economic debate in this country is going, and at the rising levels of economic inequality. I'm afraid that efforts to address the budget mess -- a serious challenge, but a medium- to long-term one -- will aggravate the inequality and reduce opportunity in this country. In short, I worry that Republican or Tea Party budget policies will make America look more like...well, that's the point of the column.
One point that I tried to stress is the way government services are being hollowed out and being replaced by privatized elite services for the elite. Police suffer cutbacks, but gated communities with private guards are a workaround if you can afford them. State schools suffer budget cuts, but elites avoid pain through private schools. And so on: the pattern becomes that we degrade public functions but provide private alternatives for those with money. And that's what to me smacks of Congo or Pakistan.
The Pakistan analogy arises perhaps because I've spent a lot of time in that country. I've always felt that the feudal elite in Pakistan has suppressed education for the masses and tried to protect themselves not by raising the entire country but by building high walls with broken glass on top. In contrast, the emerging middle class in Pakistan actually truly is engaged in fighting poverty and supporting education, in a way that the feudals never did. The middle class in Pakistan sees development as a shared journey, and that's a step forward -- but it seems to me that some Americans are emulating those Pakistani feudal rulers.
Too harsh? Unfair? Your thoughts?

        
Notes From a Young American in Congo: Orphans on the Edge
        
Readers Comment on my Holbrooke Column
        
Notes From a Young American in Congo: A Good Man...
        
Notes from a Young American in Congo: Treating Rape Victims
        
Reader Comments on Microfinance in Pakistan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); MICROFINANCE (50%) Congo; Pakistan; Republicans; Tea Party

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



143 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Rail)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: A Farm Sale of Integrity

BYLINE: CAROLE-TERESE NASER


HIGHLIGHT: Historic Runnymede Farm, the home of the Kentucky Derby winner Dancer's Image, has passed hands and is undergoing an era of restoration under new ownership.

 BODY:
Carole-Terese Naser is the new General Manager of Runnymede Farm in North Hampton, N.H. She fell in love with horse racing when Dancer's Image won the Kentucky Derby in 1968. 
Historic Runnymede Farm, the home of the Kentucky Derby winner Dancer's Image, has passed hands and is undergoing an era of restoration under new ownership. Located on a busy beach access road, the oceanside Runnymede has over the years provided a moment of pastoral loveliness for beach-going families who stop along the way to gaze at sleek Thoroughbred mares and foals grazing in green pastures. In taking over the reins, the new owners Al and Donna Perkins now protect not only the farm and its horses, but a legacy of love for all that Runnymede is and has been for the farm founder Peter Fuller, the New Hampshire seacoast, the world of horse racing and most certainly for the former owners Lori and Bret Devenport. 
Until recently, Runnymede was owned and managed by the Devenports. Lori and Bret purchased the farm from Peter Fuller in 1998 with his blessing and their promise to keep the farm intact. Lori had worked at Runnymede since high school. Having never known another job, horses were her entire existence. By the time the hardworking Lori took over the farm in the mid-1990s, she was farm manager. 
After they purchased Runnymede, the Devenports continued to board Thoroughbreds, raise foals and rehabilitate the injured and tired. With her husband, Bret, and later on, her daughter Kinsey and son Taylor, Lori took care of hundreds of horses pasturing at the farm during her tenure. Many fine equine athletes were rehabilitated and refreshed under her watchful eye. 
Aside from the great and star-crossed Dancer's Image, the most famous horse to grace the farm pastures in recent years was the retired Hall of Famer Mom's Command. A Fuller homebred, she won the Filly Triple Crown with Fuller's daughter Abby aboard. When Mom was gently laid to final rest at the farm a few years back, she was buried at a separate grave site, in homage to her greatness. At this sad passing, as with all horses lost, Lori Devenport and her family grieved in no small way. For this family, the horses have been essential members of the household. 
Another notable Runnymede retiree has been multiple stakes winner and $2 million earner Gander of the N.H.-based Gatsas Thoroughbreds. The grey Gander famously ran the 2002 Breeder's Cup Handicap riderless when jockey Mike Smith was unseated early on. Unperturbed by lack of a pilot, the savvy Gander positioned himself mid-pack and off the lead, pulled away in a professional stretch drive and hit the wire first by three lengths, after which he attempted to make his way to the winner's circle.
Despite the devastating effect of hard times on the horse racing industry, the tenacious Devenports persevered. They managed somehow to navigate the boarding business through the economic recession until the recent sale. Not an easy thing to do. With the racing industry in crisis, racehorses had stopped lining up for Runnymede stalls a while ago. Rockingham Park in nearby Salem, N.H., closed a few years back. Boston-based Suffolk Downs, which provided much of the Runnymede layup business, shortened their season. With tracks struggling to remain afloat, racing-dependent farms like Runnymede fell fast and hard, swallowed up in the farmland redevelopment urbanization across the nation. 
Despite it all, like a horse hitting yet another gear in the homestretch, the Devenports dug in one more time. In an effort to keep the stalls filled, the business slashed expenses, let the entire staff go, and branched out to board pleasure horses for a variety of owners. New clients included the Town of Hampton Mounted Police Squad's two Tennessee Walkers. When the call came in to tack up the police horses, daughter Kinsey would snap into action as groom. The Walkers would be groomed and tacked up, saddles in place, ready and waiting when the officers pulled in to gather their mounts for the summertime beach beat.
Endurance and guts go a long way, but sometimes not even these are enough. Last fall, Lori and Bret ultimately made the dreaded decision: A sale was necessary to keep the farm alive. However, they were not done yet. In their love of the horses and the storied history of the place, the Devenports assiduously selected a buyer who promised -- as had they to Peter Fuller -- to keep the farm intact. They bypassed the enticing notion of sale for redevelopment purposes, in which they would have profited far more bankroll -- but the farm would have been razed, the horses sent away. They opted for a sale with integrity. 
Enter Al and Donna Perkins, with a promise to honor the farm legacy. The Perkins have picked up the torch, and like those before them, remain dedicated to preserving the place. They have hired new management to help rejuvenate the barn and pastures and will continue boarding services. Most importantly, the elegant vision of horses grazing in New Hampshire seaside meadows will continue.
In a top shelf handoff, Lori and Bret Devenport rose above. The continued existence of Runnymede, where Lori Devenport has spent most of her adult life and leaves as much of her Secretariat-sized heart, is assured. 
The sacrifice of Lori and Bret Devenport reflects a higher standard. To them, the sale has been about protection, honor and a love for magical, fleet horses. In passing the farm along to the next chapter of horse caretakers, the Devenports too become part of the history, their lives now intertwined with the stories, the place and the remembrances of a farm that achieved greatness. 
You can still drive by Runnymede, stop and let your children watch the horses grazing in the fields. They won the Kentucky Derby, you can tell the kids. There has been a Triple Crown for fillies, you might add, and they won that, too. You'll see the police horses dozing under shady trees, resting until their next assignment. The wise Gander of classic races, earth-bound jockeys and one standing ovation will be found grazing contentedly alongside fillies and rescue horses. Dancer's Image and Mom's Command are there, too, standing like sentinels as giant images on a famous roadside billboard set front and center in the main pasture. The huge sign bespeaks Peter Fuller's pride in the outstanding accomplishments of his best colt and his best filly -- the only New England horses ever to win their respective 'Derbies.' (And know that here in New Hampshire, Dancer won that race.) What history. What intrigue. What stories. As you look out across the idyllic landscape, do not forget a nod of gratitude to the Devenports, who sold a large piece of their hearts out of love to save the farm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (92%); HORSES (90%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); FAMILY (75%); BEACHES (71%) Runnymede Farm; Horse Racing; New Hampshire

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



144 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Sustainability

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Look north, and marvel. 

 BODY:
Just a further data note. Canada has a system called Medicare; it's actually quite a lot like US Medicare, but less open-ended and more serious about cost control. Here's Canadian spending on health versus US spending, both as percentages of GDP:
Hmm. Canadian Medicare looks pretty sustainable, especially as compared with the US system, which has much more private insurance.
Now, Canadian health care isn't perfect -- but it's not bad, and Canadians are happier with their system than we are with ours.
So anyone who tells you that Medicare as we know it -- a single-payer system that covers everyone over a certain age -- is unsustainable is ignoring the clear evidence that other countries somehow manage to make similar systems quite sustainable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



145 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2177 words

HEADLINE: The Curious Case of Nelson Obus

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Nelson Obus's case has become one of the longest-running civil actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission in recent memory, but he refuses to settle. 

 BODY:
Nelson Obus is on no one's list of Wall Street titans. He is just another guy who chased that golden dream: catch the morning train into Manhattan, run a small but prosperous hedge fund, catch the evening train out, back to a leafy island of suburban wealth.
But on the morning of July 11, 2002, a FedEx package from Washington arrived at his Midtown office, and his world collapsed beneath him.
Mr. Obus is the target of an insider trading investigation.
He insisted from the start that he had done nothing wrong. But, almost a decade later, he is still fighting to clear his name. His case has become one of the longest-running civil actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission in recent memory -- a sort of "Les Miserables" of Wall Street.
"This has turned into a nightmare," Mr. Obus, 64, says. He has run up $6 million in legal bills.
It might be difficult to rouse much sympathy for the likes of Nelson Obus. Federal authorities, after all, say insider trading is rampant on Wall Street, particularly among hedge funds like his. Hardly a week passes without the revelation of some financial skullduggery. Many ordinary Americans wonder why more Wall Street highfliers are not in trouble -- or behind bars -- after all those taxpayer bailouts and mortgage shenanigans.
Few people, aside from the accused, argue that the authorities should go easy on financial black hats who swindled investors. To the contrary: many say the S.E.C. and others have not been tough enough. Next to the fiascos of the financial collapse, insider trading almost seems old-fashioned. Some legal experts suspect the S.E.C. is pursuing insider trading cases to, in effect, make up for past failures, like sleeping through the huge Ponzi scheme that Bernard L. Madoff ran for so long.
"Regulators didn't do well with the Ponzi schemes, with the Madoffs of the world," says Robert A. Prentice, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin. "Insider trading cases are something they know how to do."
All of which makes the case of Nelson Obus all the more curious.
Whether Mr. Obus is guilty of trading stocks on an insider's tip a decade ago depends on whom you ask. The S.E.C. insists he is, and filed a case against him in 2006. But a federal judge late last year sided with Mr. Obus, ruling that the commission had failed to provide sufficient evidence and throwing out the case. Unbowed, the S.E.C. has appealed that decision. A commission spokesman declined to comment on the case.
Not since the days of Ivan F. Boesky in the 1980s has insider trading been discussed so much on or off Wall Street. The two-month trial of Raj Rajaratnam, the billionaire money manager who was convicted of securities fraud and conspiracy in May, seemed only to confirm many people's worst fears about this business: the game is rigged. Mr. Rajaratnam is appealing his conviction. Last month, an employee at the Nasdaq Stock Market pleaded guilty to trading on information he had gleaned from his perch in the exchange.
And so the Obus case, which began years before the housing market sputtered, Lehman Brothers collapsed and Mr. Rajaratnam was indicted, rolls on. It has pitted Mr. Obus, a man of considerable financial resources and, apparently, a will to fight, against an S.E.C. that is eager to show that it is back on the beat.
What is insider trading, anyway? Most people probably view the actions embraced by that term much the way Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart summed up pornography: they know it when they see it. Someone gets a tip and trades on it. Case closed.
Legally, it is not so simple. In the United States, insider trading was not even addressed in the law until the 1930s, and it was not until the 1960s that the authorities began to crack down on the crime. Here is how the S.E.C. defines insider trading on its Web site: "Illegal insider trading refers generally to buying or selling a security, in breach of a fiduciary duty or other relationship of trust and confidence, while in possession of material, nonpublic information about the security."
Federal prosecutors won a conviction of Mr. Rajaratnam with an approach more often associated with organized crime figures than stock traders: wiretaps. They produced hours of recorded telephone conversations that, to the jury, showed that Mr. Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group hedge fund, had used a vast network of executives and experts to glean information.
Few insider trading cases are so clear-cut. A vast majority more closely resemble the case against Mr. Obus. It centers on a corporate acquisition in 2001 that will be remembered as a footnote in the annals of finance, if it is remembered at all. The S.E.C. says his hedge fund made $1.3 million trading on an inside tip about the deal.
Most people who are accused of insider trading make a deal with the authorities rather than face a jury, as Mr. Rajaratnam did. A settlement often involves forfeiting ill-gotten gains, paying a fine and being prohibited from serving as a director of a public company.
There is, of course, an unwritten penalty: the one exacted by the marketplace. Even a whisper of insider trading allegations can effectively end careers and kill hedge funds. After getting caught up in the widening insider trading investigation, Level Global Investors, a $3 billion hedge fund in New York, liquidated its entire portfolio and closed in February.
Mr. Obus could have settled with the S.E.C. He still could. But he insists he will not, despite the urgings of friends and family members. In most cases, people settle without admitting or denying wrongdoing.
"That is the same as guilty to me," Mr. Obus says.
Nelson Obus does not look like Gordon Gekko. He does not sound like Gordon Gekko. In fact, Mr. Obus comes across as a sort of an anti-Gekko. 
He rarely tucks in his shirt and often has dirt under his fingernails. His reading glasses, which have rhinestones at the temples, came from the women's display at Duane Reade. He grew up in Wynnefield, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia, in a downwardly mobile family that had made, then lost a fortune in the wool business. 
After earning a master's in political science from Brandeis University, Mr. Obus turned down a job on Wall Street and taught natural history for organizations like the Massachusetts Audubon Society. Then, in 1981, a friend from Philadelphia offered him a job at the investment bank Lazard, and Mr. Obus decided it was time to "come in from the woods."
Eleven years later, in 1992, he struck out on his own, founding a hedge fund, Wynnefield Partners, named after his old neighborhood. Today the firm manages $280 million in assets.
SunSource of Philadelphia was never a sexy company. It mostly sold industrial products like nuts and bolts. But Mr. Obus knew the company because it was based where he grew up, and he had bought nearly 6 percent of it.
Then, in May 2001, the Allied Capital Corporation, an old-line investment firm, began circling SunSource, and Mr. Obus, according to the S.E.C.'s complaint, made a fateful decision.
The General Electric Company, which has a big finance arm, was looking to bankroll an Allied-SunSource deal. Brad Strickland, an associate at G.E., noticed Wynnefield owned a lot of SunSource stock and spoke to a friend there, Peter F. Black. Both insist they did not talk about the pending merger.
 "It was pretty vague," Mr. Black later told investigators of the conversation. He said he was simply doing broad due diligence on SunSource. Mr. Black told Mr. Obus that he had had a call from someone at G.E. who had questions about SunSource's management. Mr. Obus picked up the phone and called the chief executive of SunSource. According to the S.E.C., Mr. Obus told him that "a little birdie" had told him SunSource might be in play.
Mr. Obus has a different recollection. He says he told the executive that he had heard SunSource was thinking of a financing arrangement, which he felt might hurt existing shareholders.
Whatever the case, Wynnefield bought more SunSource stock two weeks later, at $4.75 a share. A few weeks after that, Allied Capital announced its buyout of SunSource, and the stock almost doubled.
Just how the S.E.C. caught wind of Mr. Obus's trade is unclear. Mr. Obus says he did not think about the deal again until the FedEx package arrived from Washington, 13 months later.
In its complaint against Mr. Obus, Mr. Black and Mr. Strickland, the S.E.C. claimed the men had "knowingly or recklessly violated" securities laws. Mr. Obus's lawyer, Joel M. Cohen, countered that Mr. Strickland had not violated any duty to G.E. There is no evidence, Mr. Cohen said, that he said anything that would violate his duty to G.E., and G.E. had not entered into a confidentiality agreement with SunSource.
The lawyer also says that Mr. Obus had never deceitfully traded on the information, a crucial component of the legal definition of insider trading. In fact, Mr. Obus went as far as to call the C.E.O. of the target company and tell him what he knew.
"Mad Dog." That is what people inside the S.E.C., and out on Wall Street, call Leo Wang. Mr. Wang was an enforcer at the S.E.C., and his doggedness has won him some prominent victories. He was a player in bringing down Dennis Levine, a powerful investment banker and prominent figure in the insider trading scandals of Boesky era.
Mr. Wang says he "vaguely remembers" the Obus case. In documents filed in connection with the case, the S.E.C. painted a picture of an insider trading conspiracy. They claimed that Mr. Strickland and Mr. Black met over drinks at the Bryant Park Grill in Midtown to coordinate responses to the S.E.C. Both men say they met but did not coordinate. Lawyers for the men declined to comment.
Mr. Obus's lawyer, Mr. Cohen, said he told Mr. Wang early on that the S.E.C. had a weak case. Why would Mr. Obus call the chief executive of SunSource and say he had been tipped?
"There is no understanding the reasoning of a criminal mind," Mr. Wang replied, according to Mr. Cohen. Mr. Wang says that is not something he would say. For a time, the matter seemed to die. Then in April 2006, a month before the statute of limitations was to expire, the S.E.C. filed insider trading charges against the three men, all of whom have not settled.
"We are simply astounded that this lawsuit was filed at all," Mr. Obus wrote in a letter to his fund investors on April 26, 2006.
One of the last things anyone wants to hear about people who manage their money is that they have been accused of wrongdoing. Some Wynnefield investors headed for the exits, withdrawing about $20 million from the fund.
"We deeply regret to have to inform you of our intent to withdraw 100 percent of our interest," a big investor wrote in an e-mail to Wynnefield that April. "Our investment guidelines prevent us from investing with managers that are the subject of regulatory actions like the suit filed by the S.E.C."
Later, as the financial crisis struck, JPMorgan Chase severed ties with Wynnefield, Mr. Obus says. So did Republic National Bank. Mr. Obus, an activist investor who sometimes seeks board seats, also was rebuffed by corner offices. For instance, Crown Crafts, which makes baby products, told shareholders to reject Mr. Obus as a board member because of the S.E.C. action.
 In April 2006, Linda C. Thomsen, the director of enforcement at the S.E.C., testified on Capitol Hill about insider trading. In her written testimony, which appeared on the S.E.C.'s Web site, she said Mr. Obus had settled with the commission.
He hadn't.
"I was speechless when I saw this," Mr. Obus recalled. The S.E.C. later amended the testimony on its site.
Dejected, Mr. Obus went to visit a business acquaintance, Kenneth Langone, the founder of Home Depot. Mr. Langone had had his own scrapes with the authorities.
Mr. Langone showed Mr. Obus a transcript of a deposition with Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general at the time, who in 2004 had accused Mr. Langone of misleading fellow directors of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Langone had settled claims brought against him in the '80s, which were dredged up in the Spitzer deposition. Mr. Langone told Mr. Obus he has always regretted settling those charges in the '80s, both men say.
Nelson Obus finally got his day in court in September. In a 33-page decision, Judge George B. Daniels of Federal District Court wrote that the S.E.C. had failed to demonstrate that Mr. Strickland, the supposed tipper, had breached a duty to either SunSource or G.E. "The S.E.C. acknowledges that its case is based, in large part, upon circumstantial evidence that a duty existed," the judge said. Additionally, the S.E.C. failed to prove that Mr. Obus had tried to deceive anyone.
 The S.E.C. has appealed Judge Daniel's decision. A final decision could come this year.
Mr. Obus says he will not give up now. He says he still remembers the advice that Mr. Langone gave him in 2007, "You will find that defending your character is a good use of financial resources."

        
Former SAC Capital Trader Aided Insider Inquiry
        
A Trader, an F.B.I. Witness, and Then a Suicide

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PONZI SCHEMES (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); EVIDENCE (64%); BUSINESS TORTS (60%); JUDGES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Insider Trading; Nelson Obus; Securities Exchange Commission; Suits and Litigation; Securities and Exchange Commission; Obus, Nelson; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; Top Headline 2

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



146 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, June 5

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: With May's disappointing job numbers out, the talk shows are focusing on the economy.

 BODY:
Following the revelation of May's disappointing job numbers, the Sunday shows are almost single-mindedly focused on the economy this week. The White House is sending Austan Goolsbee, chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, to be its representative in the discussion on ABC's "This Week" and CNN's "State of the Union."
Martin Regalia, chief economist at the United States Chamber of Commerce, will also give his take on the economy on ABC, while former Congressional Budget Office director Douglas Holtz-Eakin and former Office of Management and Budget director Alice M. Rivlin will join the conversation on CNN.
With the unemployment rate at 9.1 percent and the 2012 presidential election gearing up, the sluggish economy is likely to be a major campaign issue. Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas, will be on CNN to talk about the federal budget and his own bid for the presidency, and ABC will feature Herman Cain, the Republican presidential candidate and former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza.
Also on ABC: Marwan Muasher, former foreign minister of Jordan and vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, on the crisis in Syria.
Fresh from her "One Nation" bus tour, former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska will give an exclusive interview on "Fox News Sunday." On the agenda: the economy, plus the East Coast sweep that has left many wondering if she'll dip her toes in the 2012 presidential pool after all.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi will weigh in on the debt limit on CBS's "Face the Nation," while Gov. Haley Barbour, Republican of Mississippi, who opted out of the 2012 presidential race, will talk about Republican prospects for the election.
Representative Sander M. Levin, the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, will appear on C-Span's "Newsmakers" to address tackling the debt and the cost of Medicare.
TV One's "Washington Watch" will have its eye on rising unemployment, examining how global markets can create American jobs and lending to small businesses can stimulate the economy, as well as the political tensions between Mr. Obama and Congress. Democratic National Committee Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, United States Trade Representative Ron Kirk and Frank Keating, president and chief executive of the American Bankers Association, will be on the show.
Meanwhile, Univision's "Al Punto" will feature former President Antonio Saca of El Salvador, who will share his observations on Sunday's Peruvian presidential election, and Cesar Gaviria, former president of Colombia and member of the Global Commission on Drug Policy, who will discuss the commission's recommendation that certain drugs be legalized to fight drug cartels.
Univision will also recognize the 30th anniversary of the acknowledgement of the AIDS epidemic with guests Guillermo Chacon of the Latino Commission on AIDS and Daniel Leyva, who has lived with the disease for 16 years.
NBC's "Meet the Press" will not air this week due to coverage of the French Open.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); POLITICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); DRUG POLICY (83%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); MEDICARE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); AIDS & HIV (62%); CARTELS (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (60%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (60%); EPIDEMICS (50%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%) The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (73%); RON PAUL (57%); HALEY BARBOUR (57%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (57%); SANDER M LEVIN (57%); SARAH PALIN (57%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); RON KIRK (57%); HERMAN CAIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PERU (79%); SYRIA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); JORDAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



147 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Rebuked

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
Today's Times In a move that carries little practical weight but heavy political undertones, the House rebuked President Obama for continuing to maintain an American role in NATO operations in Libya without the express consent of Congress, The Times's Jennifer Steinhauer reports. Lawmakers passed a resolution, offered by Speaker John A. Boehner, demanding that the Obama administration provide, within 14 days, detailed information about the nature, cost and objectives of the American contribution to the NATO operation, as well as an explanation for why the White House did not come to Congress for permission. As a legislative matter, the resolution has no practical effect, allowing opponents to make a fist without striking a blow. President Obama visited a Chrysler plant in Toledo, Ohio, on Friday, delivering a speech that mixed celebration for the auto industry's revival with sober acknowledgment of lingering pain in the general economy. The Times's Jackie Calmes explains how the day's events -- including a disturbing report on joblessness -- capture the complicated campaign Mr. Obama is likely to face. He can claim credit for helping to bring the country back from the brink of financial collapse and out of the deepest recession since the Great Depression, but a full economic recovery has not arrived. Friday's disappointing employment numbers strengthened Congressional Republicans' resolve in their standoff with the White House over which group has the best solution for the government to encourage growth. While both sides laid blame, nearly 25 million Americans could not find full-time work during May. Their plight, however, has yet to reach Washington. Neither party has suggested that the issue deserves the kind of urgent response that might require ideological compromises, Binyamin Appelbaum and Carl Hulse report. John Edwards, a former Democratic senator from North Carolina, told reporters that he had behaved badly but insisted he had not committed a crime, The Times's Katharine Q. Seelye writes. Alabama has passed a sweeping bill to crack down on illegal immigrants that both supporters and opponents call the toughest of its kind in the country, going well beyond a law Arizona passed last year that caused a furor there, The Times's Julia Preston reports. "This is a jobs-creation bill for Americans," said Representative Micky Hammon, a Republican who was a chief sponsor of the measure. The American Civil Liberties Union has vowed to challenge the measure in court if Gov. Robert Bentley signs it into law, which he is expected to do.Weekly Address The Big Three automakers - Chrysler, GM and Ford - are turning a profit for the first time since 2004, reviving an industry on the brink of death and warranting a visit from President Obama. He delivered the weekly address from a Chrysler plant in Toledo, Ohio, where he praised the company's prompt repayment of taxpayer dollars and the new deal to sell the federal government's remaining stake in the business. Because his presidency helped turn the industry around, he said he was confident that he could turn around other sectors of the economy as well. "But we decided to do more than rescue this industry from a crisis. We decided to help it retool for a new age, and that's what we're doing all across the country - we're making sure American can outbuild, outinnovate and outcompete the rest of the world," he said. "Now, we've got a ways to go. Even though our economy has created more than two million private-sector jobs over the past 15 months and continues to grow, we're facing some tough headwinds. Lately, it's high gas prices, the earthquake in Japan, and unease about the European fiscal situation. That will happen from time to time. There will be bumps on the road to recovery."Around the Web Turf Wars: Former Gov. Tim Pawlenty hopes to deliver the first slam-dunk of his presidential campaign with a major policy speech in President Obama's home court -- Chicago. He will outline his plan for economic growth and spending cuts, Politico reports. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is being pressured by Saudi Arabian women's rights activists to endorse their right to drive, The Huffington Post reports.Happenings around Washington There will be no fairy godmothers, but Sunday afternoon will be just as enchanted for students attending "A Cinderella Ball." The House Student Leadership Center will host the sixth annual ball for students with a life-threatening illness or disability. The adults will have their fun later in the evening at the Ford's Theater Annual Gala. Celebrities like Julie Andrews, Richard Dreyfuss and Anika Noni Rose are expected to attend, and the president and first lady will host a reception for the event.

        
The Early Word: Warning
        
The Early Word: Unemployment
        
The Early Word: Rejected
        
The Early Word: Commemorations
        
The Weekend Word: Brash

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); ROBERT BENTLEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (71%) OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



148 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Off the Map

BYLINE: By SARA WHEELER. 
Sara Wheeler's latest book, ''The Magnetic North: Notes From the Arctic Circle,'' was published in March.

 BODY:
IRRESISTIBLE NORTH
From Venice to Greenland on the Trail of the Zen Brothers
By Andrea di Robilant
Illustrated. 228 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.95
This slim work of historical investigation covers three subjects: a 14th-century voyage across the North Atlantic; a 16th-century publishing event; and a 21st-century quest. Andrea di Robilant is a distinguished scholar of Venetian history, and in ''Irresistible North,'' his third book, he strives to bind his tripartite material into a persuasive narrative unity. 
The modern story follows the author's investigations after stumbling upon an old book in the Biblioteca Marciana in Venice while looking for something else. An American-/educated Italian whose previous titles include the well-received ''Venetian Affair,'' di Robilant admits to an ''obsession'' with the shadowy figures who emerged from his initial inquiries. The old book turned out to be a travel narrative and map published in Venice in 1558 and written by one Nicolo Zen. Piecing together archival scraps, di Robilant discovers that Zen was a nobleman (the young Tintoretto painted the family palazzo), a hydraulic engineer and a minor historian. Zen's hometown, Venice, previously a sea power, was shifting to a land-based economy at the time of his birth in 1515, and had taken control of most of northern Italy. A new doge, Andrea Gritti, was presiding over a period of renewal that stimulated the appetite for knowledge of a world emerging from medieval darkness. Di Robilant is excellent on the contextual background and its relevance to the text under scrutiny.
Zen's book told the story of a voyage undertaken by his great-great-great-grandfather Antonio Zen and Antonio's brother Messer Nicolo, Venetian aristocrats who may (or may not) have sailed around the North Atlantic in the 1380s and 1390s. Travel narratives were popular in the Age of Discovery, and the book about this ancestral journey sold well. (Zen wrote it, unusually, in Italian rather than Latin.) It concerned, after all, a region that had yet to be properly explored and mapped, a zone that could prove to be the gateway of a northwest passage to Cathay -- ''that holy grail of Renaissance navigation.'' Richard Hakluyt published an English translation in London, and a copy of the map in Zen's book turned up in the workshop of Gerard Mercator in the Rhineland town of Duisburg. That master cartographer promptly ''inserted all the major pieces of the Zen puzzle in his map.'' Di Robilant shows how the map even influenced Elizabethan courtiers to dispatch the swashbuckling mariner Martin Frobisher to claim a slice of North America.
What of the 14th-century voyage itself? Messer Nicolo, once minister of the marine for the Levant, was by 1383 a restless merchant on the lookout for new opportunities. He was probably in his mid-50s when he left for the Sea of Flanders, and although he financed the voyage himself, for a period he traveled in the service of the enigmatic Prince Zichmni and his private army. When Messer Nicolo vanishes from the story, his more elusive sibling Antonio takes up the baton, succeeding his brother as commander of Zichmni's fleet in Frislanda, which di Robilant reckons to be the Faroes. The sailors weighed anchor for Engroneland (Greenland) and other destinations on the Viking trade route.
The climax of the narrative involves Antonio's description of a fisherman who ''made his way back to Frislanda after spending many years in rich and fertile lands across the ocean'' -- in North America, in other words. The suggestion of a pre-Columbian colony on the eastern seaboard has subsequently generated so much controversy that di Robilant presents the story in full in his own translation. As for Zichmni, di Robilant sets out the theory -- not a new one -- that he may have been Henry Sinclair, Earl of Orkney and Lord of Rosslyn. (Sinclair's grandson built the Rosslyn Chapel in Midlothian in Scotland, a key location in Dan Brown's novel ''The Da Vinci Code.'')
The problem at the heart of this book is evidential unreliability -- not an insignificant snag in a work of history. Zen the Younger had only five letters and a chart to go on for his account, and even they were badly damaged. Did he extrapolate beyond the point of all credibility? His book has stoked controversy for several centuries, but when a 19th-century Danish geographer branded Zen the Younger an out-and-out liar, his reputation tumbled into long decline. Di Robilant strives to salvage his man. He acknowledges that Zen's narrative ''was filled with mistakes and incongruities'' and that its author ''was certainly not shy about embellishing, adjusting, rewriting and even plagiarizing other texts in order to make the fisherman's tale more credible.'' But di Robilant's cumulative arguments imply that despite it all, the Zen narrative might be true. This reviewer remains /unconvinced.
Di Robilant writes of Zen ''padding generously'' to fill out the five letters, and then proceeds to adopt the same strategy himself. He interleaves his history with accounts of his own travels on the trail of the Zens: to the Faroes, the Orkney and Shetland Islands, Iceland and Greenland. Once there, he rents cars, tramps about and talks to the locals. These are the weakest parts of the book. Di Robilant also seeks out contemporary Zen aficionados and academic partisans. Did the Zens really make the journey as described? Did a group establish a colony in New England or Nova Scotia a century before Columbus -- Antonio Zen himself among them, as some claim? Was Zen the Younger, as one archivist insisted, the ''most blatant hoaxer in the history of the art''? Finally, was Zichmni indeed the Earl of Orkney? The most entertaining episode in ''Irresistible North'' unfolds in the glass-and-steel archival institute of the Shetland Islands, where the aforementioned archivist ushers the author to the reading room with the menacing words, ''I look forward to reviewing your book.''
Di Robilant's attempts to flesh out the story with accurate historical background are more successful than the accounts of his modern-day travels. The book includes stimulating digressions on the atmosphere and publishing scene in 16th-century Venice. ''There were no less than 150 printers operating in Venice at that time,'' di Robilant writes, ''many of them doubling as publishers.'' To a certain extent the Venice of the 1520s was the intellectual center of Europe, with more books printed there than in any other city. As di Robilant says, ''If Venice no longer had the ambition and the resources to finance expensive expeditions to distant lands, it was nevertheless the major clearinghouse for the valuable information flowing back to Europe.'' Di Robilant has an acute sense of the ways in which views of the world were changing, largely as a result of geographical discoveries.
Although di Robilant is a fine, solid researcher and a thoughtful, conscientious interpreter, he is no stylist, and any chance of this flimsy tale adding up to a truly worthwhile book dies on a tide of anachronism and cliche. One reads of a ''buzzword'' in Renaissance Venice, and of one Zen ''jump-starting his career.'' Characters turn up ''in the nick of time'' and the publication of a history book becomes ''a complete fiasco,'' an event presumably worse than a fiasco of the incomplete variety. A book needs a more substantial and substantiated theme than this. Which is a shame. Di Robilant has much to offer as a historian, but ''Irresistible North'' fails to live up to the promise of his earlier works.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: The map by Nicolo Zen the Younger, published by Francesco Marcolini in 1558. (DRAWING BY ''IRRESISTIBLE NORTH'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (77%); HISTORY (77%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (74%); GEOGRAPHY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%) GREENLAND (90%); ITALY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Irresistible North: From Venice to Greenland on the Trail of the Zen Brothers (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



149 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Fresh Tomatoes for Inner Cities

BYLINE: By NANCY F. KOEHN

 BODY:
WE live in the midst of broken systems, or so it seems. From our education system to our financial and health care systems, we are confronted with all manner of interconnected problems. As if that isn't enough, the system we rely on for our very sustenance -- the one that delivers our food -- is also in a state of disrepair.
In recent years, a spate of books and films has documented some of our largest food failures. Onto this crowded field marches ''Fair Food: Growing a Healthy, Sustainable Food System for All'' (PublicAffairs, $24.99), a lively book by Oran B. Hesterman, founder and head of the nonprofit Fair Food Network and a former agronomy professor at Michigan State University. 
Mr. Hesterman says he wants to go beyond encouraging local and organic food and eliminating certain foods from our diets. He acknowledges that these are important strategies, but he has a bigger net to cast.
''My concern isn't only about bringing back heirloom tomatoes to farmers' markets,'' he says. ''My concern is making sure that those living in inner-city neighborhoods have access to tomatoes in a form other than a ketchup packet at a fast-food joint.''
He points out that many of the same forces that powered the Industrial Revolution in the 1800s and early 1900s -- like the mechanized reaper and commercial fertilizers and pesticides -- helped lay the foundation of our current system. So, too, did the federal government, which enacted measures like subsidies to advance agriculture and assist farmers.
By the mid-20th century, government action and new technology led to the first industrial farms. As the average farm expanded in size, farmers began to specialize. In 1900, the average farm grew or raised five commodities; a century later, this number was down to about one.
The number of individual farms, as well as farmers' share of the population, has shrunk drastically, too. In 1900, more than 40 percent of the nation's population earned its livelihood off the land; today, that share is less than 2 percent.
Agricultural mass production, of course, led to enormous increases in efficiency and productivity. It helped to create an abundant food supply at low cost to consumers. But the same forces that envisioned the farm as a ''big factory floor'' have also produced unintended but dangerous consequences. These include problems with food quality and safety, animal welfare, soil erosion and depletion, higher energy consumption and greenhouse gas production, and diet-related illnesses like diabetes and obesity, Mr. Hesterman writes.
The book's use of statistics to document these problems is spotty. But those it offers can pack a wallop. For example, citing a University of Michigan fact sheet, it says, ''our food system consumes 10.3 calories of fossil fuel energy to produce 1.4 calories of food energy.'' The author says this is a sign of a broken system, ''not because the policies that created it were necessarily bad policies for the time in which they were created, but because the context has changed.''
Mr. Hesterman lays out four principles of a redesigned food system more suited to the present than the past: equity, diversity, ecological integrity and economic viability. He devotes a chapter to each, presenting examples of individuals and groups that have begun to integrate the ideas. In the chapter on equity, for example, he hammers home an important theme: that our food system is failing the poor -- particularly the inner-city poor, who often lack access to fresh, healthy foods.
He points out that in Detroit, major supermarket chains have moved out as the local economy has deteriorated. This means that many residents must rely instead on gas stations, liquor stores and convenience stores for their food. It follows, then, that diet-related health concerns like diabetes and obesity are worse in areas where access to nutritious food is limited.
The solution involves more than enticing supermarkets into poor neighborhoods. It also means encouraging convenience stores to carry more fresh foods, Mr. Hesterman writes. It means bringing farmer's markets to inner cities. And it means exposing children to nutritious alternatives to fast food.
As an example of how to execute this tall order, Mr. Hesterman points to the nonprofit Food Trust in Philadelphia. Since its founding in 1992, this group has done all of the above and more, including lobbying for state funds to develop healthy food outlets in underserved neighborhoods. This last initiative has also helped preserve or create 5,000 local jobs.
The final part of the book offers suggestions on how individuals can work to change the food system. Mr. Hesterman suggests setting up buying clubs to acquire food directly from farmers; becoming active in school lunch and other institutional reform efforts; and forming food policy councils to help governments think about food more comprehensively.
For each potential action, Mr. Hesterman serves up tangible success stories -- from the Healthy Schools Campaign in Chicago to the New York City Green Carts project to help entrepreneurs sell fresh produce in underserved areas. And he devotes the last chapter to a list of organizations that are helping to redesign the food system.
The author displays a wide-ranging knowledge of production, consumption, natural resources and public policy. He also writes about reform efforts with contagious energy and palpable authority. (I spent part of Memorial Day setting in motion a small buying club to purchase humanely raised and slaughtered chickens directly from farmers west of Boston.)
But the book leaves some supply issues largely unaddressed. Can America and other nations possibly produce enough food from smaller, environmentally sustainable sources to feed the world's growing population? How can we reduce environmental degradation and the cruelty imposed on billions of cattle, pigs, chickens and sheep every year? For all of Mr. Hesterman's knowledge and enthusiasm, we cannot hope to create a fairer food system without some kind of rough blueprint that takes on these and other related questions.
These weaknesses notwithstanding, this is an important, accessible book on a crucial subject. Food for thought and action.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (76%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (75%); AGRONOMY (75%); AGRICULTURE (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); OBESITY (73%); CONSUMPTION (72%); FOOD SAFETY (71%); CITIES (71%); ANIMAL WELFARE (70%); PESTICIDES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); FERTILIZERS (69%); NUTRITION (68%); FACTORY FARMS (68%); GARDENING (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (62%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (62%); EROSION (60%); POPULATION SIZE (51%); DIABETES (50%); GREENHOUSE GASES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Fair Food: Growing a Healthy, Sustainable Food System for All (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



150 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CAREER COUCH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Between College And That First Job

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
Q. You've just graduated from college but couldn't find a job or internship in advance -- so you are moving back in with your parents. Can you take some time off before restarting your job search?
A. No, because taking time off will be hard to explain in an interview and can make you less employable. Kathy Kane, senior vice president for talent management of Adecco Group North America in Melville, N.Y., says that because of the state of the economy, new grads think they have a free pass to take it easy for a while, but they don't. ''When I look to fill a position, I'm not looking for someone who's been sitting around with idle hands.'' 
It's easy for unemployed college graduates to feel sorry for themselves and mope, but they shouldn't fall prey to that, says Dan Black, Americas director of campus recruiting for the professional services firm Ernst & Young in New York. As a recruiter, Mr. Black says he looks for those who have been ''keeping themselves meaningfully busy.''
Q.What's the best way to use the time between graduation and employment?
A. Your focus should be on developing skills you need for employment and learning about your industry, says Katharine Brooks, director of liberal arts career services at the University of Texas, Austin, and author of ''You Majored in What?'' This is also a good time to build your network. Use your college's alumni office to seek out professionals in your industry, she says.
Do some virtual networking through a social media campaign. ''Create a LinkedIn profile, because recruiters use that as a primary way of sourcing candidates,'' she says. Twitter and Facebook enable you to have conversations with people in your field. ''Use Twitter to begin to establish yourself as someone who is knowledgeable about your industry,'' Ms. Brooks says. ''Start tweeting about articles of interest in your field and the latest research findings.''
Being comfortable with social media, however, doesn't mean you are familiar with the technology used in a corporate environment, says Jeffrey Livingston, senior vice president for college and career readiness at McGraw-Hill Education in Columbus, Ohio. ''Use this time to learn the software companies want, like Excel and PowerPoint, and read up on search engine optimization,'' he says.
Q.Is there a way to develop skills you need for your chosen field, without yet having a job in that field?
A. Talk to people in the industry and read job ads to learn what employers are looking for, Ms. Brooks says, then determine what you can do to get the necessary skills and experience. If you know you need more customer-service experience, for example, you might volunteer to answer phones at a charitable organization or try to get a job at a call center, she says.
If you register at temporary agencies, Ms. Kane says, ''don't focus on the job title -- focus on skills development.''
''No matter what job you're doing,'' she adds, ''you will learn how a company operates and develop business communication skills.''
Volunteer work is another option, but choose work that enhances your resume, Mr. Black says. ''Find ways of using your degree to help the organization -- it might be marketing, finance or event planning,'' he says. Don't just look at established charities; find some small local businesses and offer to volunteer, while learning at the same time.
Q.What if the only job you can find involves waiting tables or working as a clerk in a retail store? Could that reflect negatively on you when you interview for jobs in your industry?
A. In this economy, any job is more valuable than no job, Ms. Kane says, especially if you approach it with the attitude: What can I learn? A job in retail or in a restaurant will teach about sales, time management and working as part of a team. ''If you take the initiative and excel at the job,'' she says, ''you might become crew chief or shift supervisor -- that's managerial experience.''
Many companies use behavioral interviews in making hiring decisions, Ms. Kane says, asking for examples of how you developed or used a skill in real life. ''If you were working at the Gap this summer, you can talk about how you sold to customers based on how they interacted with the merchandise,'' she says. ''Those are sales and marketing skills.''
Q.Since you can't find a job in your field, should you try starting your own business?
A. Starting a business is one of the most ''profound resume-building experiences you can have,'' says Leonard Schlesinger, president of Babson College in Wellesley, Mass., a business college that specializes in entrepreneurship. The most important thing is to find something you are interested in pursuing, he says, then invite input from people who might buy what you want to sell.
Keep in mind that a low-tech business may showcase your talents as much as a high-tech one. ''A dog-walking business, lawn care, even a lemonade stand -- are all fine,'' he says. ''Just get started, and you'll have a set of experiences to reflect upon and talk about.''
E-mail: ccouch@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (86%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (73%); ALUMNI (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: ADECCO GROUP NORTH AMERICA (72%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (72%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (72%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (77%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



151 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN OZONE PARK, QUEENS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Colonials, Tudors and, Soon, a Casino

BYLINE: By JOSEPH PLAMBECK

 BODY:
A LOT has changed in Ozone Park, a neighborhood in southern Queens, since George Russo grew up there in the 1960s.
Back then, he said, the neighborhood teemed with German, Irish and Italian immigrants. Italian bakeries and butcher shops were commonplace.
Now those groups have smaller numbers, and many of their shops have been replaced by stores catering to the tastes of recent arrivals from Guyana, Colombia and Mexico, among other countries.
''This has always been a place for relatively new immigrant families trying to get a foothold and assimilate,'' said Mr. Russo, 57, who has lived in Ozone Park for most of his life and runs a catering hall called Villa Russo just outside of the neighborhood. ''What's happened recently is no different.''
But an even greater change is coming this year -- one visible even from a distance, because of the cranes doing heavy construction: New York City's first casino. 
It is being built at the Aqueduct race track, the 192-acre expanse straddling Ozone Park and South Ozone Park. Called Resorts World New York and developed by Genting New York, the casino will have 4,525 video slot machines.
It is not clear what its presence will mean for the neighborhood. Many residents are hopeful that it will bring jobs and money.
Last month, the casino announced it would hire 1,150 permanent workers, 350 more than it had originally estimated. Hiring has started, the casino said, adding that local workers would be taken on before others.
''It should be an economic engine for our community,'' said Mr. Russo, who since 1986 has lived in a colonial that cost around $190,000. He estimated that it was now worth about $450,000.
For decades the neighborhood has been largely working-class, a slightly downscale area compared with its southern neighbor, Howard Beach. The pizazz anticipated from the new casino is not a quality already much in evidence. Off the main thoroughfares, like Rockaway Boulevard and Cross Bay Boulevard, the streets are mostly serene. Noise, what there is of it, comes from the planes taking off and landing nearby at Kennedy International Airport.
The casino could therefore have all the more impact, especially if it brought a significant increase of traffic to the side streets.
''If the traffic cuts through the center of the neighborhood, that'll hurt,'' said Jerry Fink, the owner of Jerry Fink Real Estate, who has sold property in the neighborhood for 14 years.
There is also concern that the crowds of gamblers could bring crime.
Like the city as a whole, Ozone Park has had a sharp decrease in major crimes in the last 20 years. In the 106th Precinct, which covers much of the neighborhood, including the area around Aqueduct, crime has fallen 77 percent over that period.
Eric A. Ulrich, who grew up in the neighborhood and now represents it on the City Council, says he expects 30,000 visitors a day to Aqueduct once the casino opens. Well aware of the residents' concerns, he has been in talks with the precinct to prepare for the visitors.
Not long ago, he said, ''there was a general feeling that the neighborhood was in decline. But now I really see things changing for the better.''
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
There is general agreement that neighborhood is circumscribed by Atlantic Avenue to the north and North Conduit Avenue to the south. The eastern boundary is usually recognized as 108th Street -- give or take a few blocks in either direction -- and the western section of Aqueduct. The Brooklyn border makes the line to the west.
Roughly 50,000 people live in an area a little over a square mile in size. Whites remain prevalent, according to recent census figures; there are also large numbers of Hispanics and Asians from countries including Colombia, Bangladesh and the Philippines.
The neighborhood, its stability enhanced by being largely owner-occupied, has a family-friendly air, with play sets and toys in yards. The real estate is mostly single- and two-family detached colonials on lots large enough for a backyard and parking.
An architectural exception is the area known as Tudor Village, in the southwestern section. As the name implies, it is filled with brick Tudor-style houses, many of them attached. Another enclave, Centerville, lies in the southeast corner, near Aqueduct, and is filled with slightly larger homes. The prices in both Tudor Village and Centerville tend to be higher than in the rest of the neighborhood.
Between Tudor Village and Centerville is another anomaly for the neighborhood, Magnolia Court, a gated community built in the last decade. Prices of the 48 condominiums in the complex -- duplexes and simplexes outfitted with granite countertops and other upscale touches -- ranged from about $375,000 to $550,000. Magnolia Court was developed by the Ervolino Group, whose chief executive, Ronald Ervolino, grew up in Ozone Park and neighboring Howard Beach and still has family in the area.
''The neighborhood didn't have that kind of community,'' Mr. Ervolino said. ''But it's always been a very vibrant place,'' filled with people trying to work their way up the ladder.
''The neighborhood has changed a lot,'' he added, ''but its concept is the same.''
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
House prices have fallen as much as 25 percent, brokers say, since the height of the market several years ago.
Many listings are short sales -- a factor that is keeping prices down, said John Rodriguez, the broker-owner of Exit Realty Central, an agency in the neighborhood. ''It's definitely a buyer's market,'' was his assessment.
Typical one-family houses, Mr. Rodriguez said, range from $375,000 to about $450,000. Two-families range from $475,000 to $600,000. A recent search of properties for sale found nearly 90 single-family houses and more than 100 multifamilies.
Homes in the southern part of the neighborhood, including Tudor Village and Centerville, near Aqueduct, have a slightly higher price tag -- about $400,000 to $600,000.
But even with the slowness in sales, said Mr. Fink of Jerry Fink Realty, the rental market is active, and he is among those expecting things to pick up after the casino opens. Two-bedroom rentals are priced around $1,400 a month, he said, and three-bedrooms run $1,500 or more.
WHAT TO DO
The neighborhood is generously endowed with parks and playgrounds, including the London Planetree Playground, which has almost two acres, and the 24-acre Tudor Park. Rockaway Beach, a popular summer destination for residents, is a short bus ride away.
Liberty Avenue and Cross Bay Boulevard are lined with retail stores, both small shops and chains like Modell's and Marshalls. Residents congregate at the restaurants here,among them Esquire Diner and Aldo's II Pizzeria.
THE SCHOOLS
Among local schools is Public School 64, which has about 650 enrolled in kindergarten through fifth grade. Last year, 50 percent of fourth graders met standards in reading and 64 percent in math.
At Public School 65, which serves the same age groups, 46 percent of fourth graders met standards in reading and 54 percent in math.
Junior High School 210 has nearly 2,100 students. Last year, 45 percent of its eighth graders met standards in reading and 45 percent in math.
John Adams High School sits on the eastern side of the neighborhood, near Aqueduct. Graduation rates there have increased recently, to 61 percent, just below the 63 percent citywide average. SAT averages last year were 424 in math, 399 in reading and 404 in writing, versus 462, 439 and 434 citywide.
The neighborhood also has several private and parochial schools, including Saint Mary Gate of Heaven School and Divine Mercy Catholic Academy.
THE COMMUTE
The A train makes several stops in the neighborhood. The commute to Midtown Manhattan takes about 45 minutes.
There are many buses to choose from; a handful, including the Q21 and Q41, which run along Cross Bay Boulevard, have stops near the Rockaway Boulevard A train station.
To the north, the Q8 runs along 101st Avenue and the Q24 along Atlantic Avenue. The Q7 serves the southwest, the Q11 the southeast.
Still, many residents eschew public transportation in favor of their cars, a choice made easier by plentiful on-street parking. The Belt Parkway, along the neighborhood's southern border, provides easy access to many areas around the city.
THE HISTORY
In the late 1940s, Jack Kerouac wrote his first novel and plotted his travels for ''On the Road'' in his family's walk-up apartment on Cross Bay Boulevard.
Pat Fenton, a writer who has tried to secure landmark status for the building, said Kerouac also spent time working in the drugstore on the building's ground floor and frequented a bar across the street that is now called Glen Patrick's Pub.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: YOO-HOO: This block of 86th Street, near 133rd Avenue, is in Tudor Village, an enclave where prices range from about $400,000 to $600,000, generally more than for a similar-size house elsewhere in Ozone Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (87%); CRIME RATES (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); MEAT STORES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); JOB CREATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



152 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: When the Seller Is the Lender

BYLINE: By MARYANN HAGGERTY

 BODY:
MORTGAGE underwriting is tight, and home sellers are anxious to unload properties into a stagnant market -- it sounds as if it could be time to consider seller financing.
But such transactions remain rare, according to market participants, largely because of eroding home equity.
In seller financing, the owner of a property holds the mortgage for the buyer, usually for about five years, with a balloon payment after that. For individuals who don't need all the cash from a sale up front, the arrangement provides interest income, can delay or reduce capital-gains taxes, and gets a property off their hands. 
For the buyer without a bank loan, it makes a purchase possible. Such deals were popular in the 1980s when mortgage rates topped 17 percent. (In New York, there have been recent instances of developers' offering financing, especially in newer condominiums, but that's a different market dynamic.)
Because a seller who acts as a bank has to be able to clear his own mortgage without the buyer's cash, he needs equity -- that is, he needs to own most or all of the property. Falling home prices in recent years have cut equity dramatically, said Mike Litzner, the owner/broker of Century 21 American Homes, which has 12 offices on Long Island. In this market, ''the average seller lost 25 percent of equity from the peak of the market to today,'' he said. ''That loss of equity makes it harder for the average person to even consider financing.''
Century 21 recently released a survey of its franchisees and salespeople nationally; it found that 89 percent reported some customers' having difficulty obtaining loans in the last six months.
Seller-financed deals do sometimes pop up, said Neil B. Garfinkel, a Manhattan real estate lawyer. His firm is handling a co-op purchase for a buyer whose mortgage from an institutional lender fell through. There was a quirk in the building's finances that meant it didn't meet underwriting standards. The seller stepped in, and it appears the deal will close.
That situation, he said, underlines a question that both buyers and sellers should ask as they consider owner financing: Why won't the bank put up the money?
For the buyer, that may mean weighing whether the discovery of an environmental problem cools ardor for a house, or whether a low appraisal signals that an offer merits renegotiation.
For a seller who is in a position to provide financing, the biggest concern is whether the buyer is truly creditworthy. ''Presumably the seller does not want to end up with the property back,'' Mr. Garfinkel said.
Keep in mind that although such a transaction might seem less formal than bank financing, it shouldn't be treated that way, said Ilona Bray, a lawyer and the co-author of ''Selling Your House in a Tough Market,'' published by Nolo.com.
''Get ready to really delve in and investigate'' the buyer's finances, she advises would-be sellers. Self-employed people are having a tough time getting mortgages now, even though they might otherwise be good risks. The seller should ask for several years of financial records, plus explanations for any less-than-perfect credit report.
Make sure deeds and other legal papers are filed according to local laws, Ms. Bray said, and ensure that documents lay out exactly how and when payments are due and what the penalties will be for late payments. ''This is the kind of relationship where people could feel it's casual,'' she said. It's not, and everyone involved must understand that defaults can lead to foreclosure.
From the buyer's perspective, she said, if you're considering such a deal, it's probably because you realize you might have trouble securing a conventional loan. If that's so, get your financial documents in order, and be prepared to ask sellers if they have flexibility. ''Everything's open to negotiation in the real estate world,'' she added.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (79%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (79%); CONDOMINIUMS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); SALES FORCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%)

COMPANY: ASK ASA (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



153 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
THEIR TREES AT RISK,
NANJING RESIDENTS ACT
Tall as a 15-story building, with a mighty trunk, crooked branches and kingly canopy of leaves, the London plane tree is touted as a ''supertree,'' immune to urban grime and smog. But until this spring, it was a frequent victim of Nanjing's development campaign. Residents reversed that, forcing local officials to make concessions and preserve the towering hallmark of their city. PAGE 6
VILLAGE COUNCILS SCRUTINIZED
For generations in India, unelected councils of male elders have dominated villages, exerting control through edicts, but now they are coming under national scrutiny. PAGE 5 
PROTESTING GRAFT WITH YOGA
Thousands of protesters staged a huge anticorruption protest in the heart of India's capital, gathering beneath a vast outdoor tent for a yoga session, followed by a hunger strike orchestrated as part of a growing movement against corruption and the government. PAGE 8
HELICOPTERS STRIKE LIBYA
In a move to intensify pressure on Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's forces, NATO introduced attack helicopters into its air campaign against Libyan forces for the first time, military officials said. PAGE 14
GATES AFFIRMS COMMITMENT
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates made an unannounced trip to Afghanistan, using his arrival to argue that the mission to beat back a tenacious insurgency should not be put at risk by budget concerns in Washington. PAGE 12
EGYPT-GAZA CROSSING CLOSED
A week after Egypt opened its border crossing with Gaza in a move hailed by Palestinians as an end of the Israeli-led blockade of the coastal enclave, the crossing was temporarily closed, leading frustrated travelers to try to force their way through. PAGE 10
National
A G.O.P. HOPEFUL
IS GATHERING MOMENTUM
Those not frequenting Tea Party rallies might dismiss Herman Cain, a talk radio host and former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza, as a frivolous candidate. But there are signs of momentum. A newly released Gallup poll showed Mr. Cain with the highest voter intensity score of any Republican presidential contender, far higher than Sarah Palin or Mitt Romney. PAGE 18
RIVER REVIVAL IN RICHMOND
Ten years ago, bathers in the James River, which wends through Richmond, Va., wore ear and nose plugs to stave off infections from sewage runoff. Now, after huge cleanup efforts, the river is stalked by blue herons and shad -- symbols as potent as the belching riverbank ironworks and factories of the unfiltered, blue-collar past. PAGE 19
New York
BRINGING AN ASIAN CUSTOM
FOR NEW MOTHERS TO QUEENS
In some traditional Asian cultures, women spend the month after a baby's birth in pampered seclusion. Typically, a woman's relatives would care for her, but more recently, the practice has been outsourced to postpartum doulas and confinement centers. Business is steady enough in New York City to support at least four postpartum centers, tucked away in the heavily Asian-immigrant neighborhoods of Flushing and Bayside, Queens. PAGE 26
UNDERGROUND CHRONICLER
Tod Seelie could be called the house photographer for the Brooklyn art-vandal underground. He captures unusual underground happenings as varied as a female mud-wrestling match, an illegal party in an abandoned warehouse, a guerilla theater event in the snow or a group sailing trip through New York Harbor (and beyond) on rafts made of junk. PAGE 27
Sports
LOCKED-OUT PLAYERS
TAKE ON NEW TRADES
For some N.F.L. players who spent the spring waiting for a resolution to the labor dispute, the extra free time meant an opportunity to try out bull riding, selling cars or substitute teaching. For the Jets' Matt Kroul, it meant tilling and planting on his family's farm. PAGE 1
TRIP HOME AND A ROAD BACK
Considered by some to be the best player on one of Texas' greatest high school basketball teams, Chris Bosh led his squad to the 4A state championship. Now he returns to his hometown to play Dallas in the N.B.A. finals. PAGE 1
REGRET OVER TRESSEL
Ever since Jim Tressel resigned as Ohio State's football coach, the fallout has been ''like a tsunami,'' said the university's president, E. Gordon Gee. While Gee acknowledged that he and the athletic director Gene Smith had erred along the way, he said that at no time did the university violate or attempt to skirt N.C.A.A. rules in the investigation. PAGE 6
RAYS' TEST OF RICHES
Last season, The Tampa Bay Rays decided to field a team with several potential free agents and try to win a championship. They won the American League East and let every free agent go. Now the Rays are ready for their reward: 10 extra picks in baseball's draft. Extra Bases, Tyler Kepner. PAGE 2
CONFOUNDING JETER
Of the 1,162 pitchers Derek Jeter has faced in his 17 seasons with the Yankees, a varied collection of seven stand out for having given him trouble. PAGE 3
ROBUSTELLI'S LEGACY
Andy Robustelli, who died last week, helped change the way the Giants played defense and the way the word is pronounced by millions of sports fans. Sports of the Times, Dave Anderson. PAGE 10
Sunday Business
ONE MAN'S LONG BATTLE
TO RESTORE HIS GOOD NAME
Nelson Obus is the target of an insider trading investigation. He insisted from the start that he had done nothing wrong. But, almost a decade later, he is still fighting to clear his name. His case has become one of the longest-running civil actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission in recent memory. PAGE 1
MOLDING METAL LIKE PLASTIC
Plastic's main advantage is its versatility: melt and inject it into molds, and out comes an endless variety of parts. Metals can't always compete, but in a laboratory at the California Institute of Technology, researchers have found an ingenious way to coax metal alloys to solidify into a range of shapes as though they were plastics being molded. PAGE 4
DINING WITH STRANGERS
A group of people sat around a table, swapping war stories over Thai food and cold beer. But none of them had met before that night. The dinner was organized by Grubwithus, a Chicago-based online service with the seemingly modest aim of bringing strangers together to have a meal. PAGE 4
THE PUZZLE OF ANNUITIES
The market still hasn't figured out a good way to dispel myths and sell the advantages of annuities for retirement investing. PAGE 5
Automobiles
A FAMILY'S FELLOW TRAVELER,
FROM TROPICS TO TUNDRA
Blaine Benson shifted through a folder full of documents, papers, receipts and other ephemera. It tells the story of a journey, Arts & Leisure
FOR KURDS IN TURKEY
AUTONOMY LIES IN MUSIC
It was not so long ago that playing Kurdish music into the streets of Turkey would ignite the wrath of the police. Kurds account for 20 percent of Turkey's population, and they have been looking forward to coming elections to press for greater autonomy. One expression of that autonomy lies in music. Page 1
Book Review
DREAMING AN ALIEN WORLD
AND HUMANS LIVING IN IT
''Embassy Town,'' the new novel from genre-mashing novelist China Mieville about a human diplomatic enclave on an alien world, has the feel of a word-puzzle, writes Carlo Rotella. Much of the pleasure of figuring out the logic of the world and the story comes from grasping the full resonance of the invented and imported words. Page 43
Style
MIDDLE EASTERN ARTISTS
SHOW AT VENICE BIENNALE
For the first time since 1976, Iraq is participating in the Venice Biennale. With Egypt, Syria, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia showing there, Middle Eastern art was Topic A at the pre-even parties. Page 1
Magazine
WATCHING A MOB KILL
AN INNOCENT MAN
In a South African shantytown, an angry mob committed a horrifying crime that was caught on video: the murder of an innocent man, a man believed to be a criminal. Page 32
UNDER KANYE'S WING
Justin Vernon, of the indie-rock band Bon Iver, has tasted megastardom. While it must have been nice, he'd still rather be in Wisconsin. Page 28
Editorial
THE UNFOLDING CASE
OF JOHN EDWARDS
The self-destruction of former Senator John Edwards is yet another cautionary tale of hubris when honesty is the only acceptable option. Week in Review, Page 7
STICKER SHOCK
Lots of happy talk accompanied the Obama administration's unveiling of new fuel economy stickers for cars and light trucks. Labels can help consumers make better choices. But Detroit and other manufacturers make big changes only when regulators force them to. Week in Review, Page 7
OVERLOOKING OVERSIGHT
Congress's renewal of expansive Patriot Act investigatory powers omitted needed safeguards, ignoring the whole point of requiring that the provisions be periodically reviewed. Week in Review, Page 7
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Here's a place with low taxes, little regulation and traditional family values. Body armor suggested. Week in Review, Page 9
MAUREEN DOWD
An Irish Lone Ranger gallops past a recalcitrant Rome to rescue Catholic sexual-abuse victims. Week in Review, Page 9
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
What would a Chinese government official write home about the Arab Spring? Week in Review, Page 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (83%); CORRUPTION (78%); RIVERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); OUTSOURCING (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); BUDGETS (74%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); YOGA (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); HELICOPTERS (68%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); MIDWIVES (62%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (69%); SARAH PALIN (56%); MITT ROMNEY (56%); HERMAN CAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); INDIA (92%); EGYPT (92%); CHINA (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



154 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Cynthia Singerman, Brian Andrews

 BODY:
Cynthia Lynn Singerman and Brian George Andrews were married Saturday evening at the Dawn Ranch Lodge, a resort in Guerneville, Calif. Benjamin D. Singerman, the brother of the bride, who was temporarily named a deputy marriage commissioner by San Francisco County, officiated. 
Mrs. Andrews, 29, is a staff lawyer, working primarily on homeowner foreclosure prevention,at Housing and Economic Rights Advocates, a nonprofit legal services and advocacy organization in Oakland, Calif. She graduated summa cum laude from the University of Florida, from which she also received a law degree.
She is the daughter of Marcia E. Singerman and Philip M. Singerman of Longwood, Fla. The bride's father is an author of three books, including ''An American Hero: The Red Adair Story'' (Little Brown, 1990). Her mother retired as a Spanish teacher from Seminole High School in Sanford, Fla.
Mr. Andrews, 33, is the assistant treasurer and director of capital markets at the Cooper Companies, a contact lens and medical device manufacturer, in Pleasanton, Calif. He graduated from Columbia.
He is the son of Diane G. Andrews and Dr. George A. Andrews of Knoxville, Tenn. The bridegroom's father, a cardiologist, is the chief of quality at a unit of Humana, the health insurance and hospital company in Louisville, Ky. He works in its health care guidance department, where he is involved in strategies for assuring and improving patient care.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB WITZEL PHOTOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); WRITERS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HOSPITALS (67%); MEDICAL DEVICES (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); CARDIOLOGY (66%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (52%)

COMPANY: COOPER COS INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (57%)

TICKER: COO (NYSE) (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



155 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Editors' Choice Recent books of particular interest

 BODY:
THE GREATER JOURNEY: Americans in Paris, by David McCullough (Simon & Schuster, $37.50.) An exploration of the intellectual legacy that France settled on such 19th-century visitors as Mark Twain, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Samuel Morse and many others. 
SACRED TRASH: The Lost and Found World of the Cairo Geniza, by Adina Hoffman and Peter Cole (Nextbook/Schocken, $26.95.) How a storeroom in an Egyptian synagogue preserved centuries of history.
THE FORGOTTEN FOUNDING FATHER: Noah Webster's Obsession and the Creation of an American Culture, by Joshua Kendall (Putnam, $26.95.) Kendall has written a lively, insightful biography.
RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: How Outsized Ambition, Greed, and Corruption Led to Economic Armageddon, by Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner (Times Books/Holt, $30.) This account of 2008's crisis highlights responsible individuals.
A BITTERSWEET SEASON: Caring for Our Aging Parents -- and Ourselves, by Jane Gross (Knopf, $26.95.) Gross tells of her struggle to help her infirm mother, and offers practical advice on eldercare.
SONGS OF KABIR, translated by Arvind Krishna Mehrotra(New York Review, paper, $14.) Mehrotra captures the ferocity and improvisational energy of the shadowy 15th-century Indian poet and holy man.
THE LONDON TRAIN, by Tessa Hadley (Harper Perennial, paper, $14.99.) Hadley's socially realistic novel is split between two characters who, we gradually learn, react in opposite ways to their old affair.
BULLFIGHTING, by Roddy Doyle (Viking, $25.95.) Doyle's stories are full of stragglers and loners, men who don't know how to get back into the pack.
TOWARD YOU, by Jim Krusoe (Tin House, paper, $14.95.) The narrator of Krusoe's unsettling novel seeks a way for the living to get through to the dead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (55%); AGING (53%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); CAIRO, EGYPT (72%) FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EGYPT (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



156 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR HOME ECONOMICS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: A Real Economic Meltdown

BYLINE: By ROBIN ROMM. 
Robin Romm is the author of ''The Mercy Papers: A Memoir of Three Weeks.''

 BODY:
Portland, Ore.
JOSH OLLER sits me down in the conference room of Silver Lining, a pawn shop in northeastern Portland. It's a Monday and only 10 a.m., but already three lines are forming at the loan windows. At the front, a woman in a colorful windbreaker and hot pink pants leans on her elbows on the counter. A man in a long black trench coat waits patiently behind her with a guitar.
Mr. Oller runs Silver Lining with his father, Earl. While we talk, a painting of Earl, made to look like Elvis, watches us from its black velvet canvas. The son has a sedate manner, his calm blue eyes set off by a faded navy polo shirt. 
He didn't think he'd go into pawning. He aspired to a career in federal law enforcement. But after he graduated from college, a longing to remain in Oregon, near family and forests, made him reconsider. ''It's a good business,'' he says. ''Every day is different. You never know what's going to come through the door.''
The economic downturn has, according to Mr. Oller, brought more middle-class customers to the loan windows. But the real change in pawning has to do with the skyrocketing price of gold. With gold at $1,500 an ounce, pawnshops are making easy profits by buying gold jewelry and selling it to refineries. For sellers, those gold cufflinks languishing in a jewelry box might now cover several weeks' worth of groceries.
Even gold dust has become worth pursuing. Inspired by stories he'd heard of people boiling the carpets in old jewelry manufacturing buildings to recover remnants of precious metals, Mr. Oller installed a special sewage filtration system in his shop. Now, after employees work with jewelry, they can wash their hands -- those tricky crevasses in the knuckles and under their nails -- without throwing money, literally, down the drain. Silver Lining's sewage sludge is collected, dried, baked and burned. ''It's gross,'' he admits. But from hand-washing water, he said, the shop collected about $1,000 last year.
Mr. Oller takes me on a tour of the store, including its maze of storage rooms filled with the traditional pawn loot: electronics and guns. But I have a passion for old junk and we both perk up in a low-ceilinged room holding objects that defy categorization.
''What's that?'' I ask, pointing to a small turquoise trunk. It holds a ventriloquist's dummy. I desperately want to look at it, but Mr. Oller has moved on to a 100-year-old bottle of Kentucky whiskey. ''How much did you loan for that?'' I ask.
''Probably 50 bucks,'' he says. And then there are the items for which it's nearly impossible to name a price, like the miniature but functional cannon made out of brass.
When we finish the tour, I find myself drawn to the jewelry cases. It's hard not to imagine the sad stories behind the diamond rings sitting there -- love soured, jobs lost. But I steel myself to see if there's any gold vintage jewelry, the kind I wear and love. The absence of this -- of any gold jewelry -- is notable.
Most days I wear a gold Victorian lion pendant that my boyfriend got for me when I sold my first book. I'd long admired it in the window of an estate jewelry store in Berkeley, Calif., where I was living at the time. The impeccably made lion holds a little diamond shard in his fierce mouth. His eyes shine with ruby beads. His whiskers grow from tiny specks beneath his perfectly carved nostrils. I love to think about where he came from, and whom he will belong to after I'm gone. I hate to think -- in fact, can't bring myself to think -- of his horrible end if I pawned him. Straight to the scrapper, he'd go.
When I say the fate of all the gold jewelry seems sad, Mr. Oller shrugs. ''Gold's just a commodity, like grain,'' he says.
From a pawnbroker's perspective, this outlook makes sense. Regular customers can no longer afford gold jewelry, and so pawnbrokers stand to make more selling it all to refineries. But I think of my grandmother's filigreed earrings and my lion pendant, both antique pieces made with great care, now part of my own history. I imagine these objects melted into bars and sold on the open market -- to China, to Russia. It's unsettling.
For a while I wonder whether I can set up a little booth in front of the pawnshop and convince people to sell their antique jewelry to me instead, to save it from its fiery end. But this would probably be illegal, financially suspect ... maybe even insane. I settle on hoping that some people, despite this extended recession, can afford to keep their heirloom earrings and cufflinks, medallions and lockets -- those little pieces of our human history, sentimental and unrefined.
The Labor Department announced on Friday that hiring had slowed in May, and that the unemployment rate rose slightly, to 9.1 percent. Four writers from around the country have been providing quarterly snapshots of their local economies for the past year. Here are their final dispatches.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL ROGERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FINE JEWELRY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



157 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: All Filled Upstairs, But Empty Below

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
RIVER LOFTS, a condominium at Laight and West Streets in TriBeCa, has attracted buyers like Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin, who live in a spectacular all-white apartment. At the same time, the building's exterior has required such extensive repairs that, for much of the four years since it opened, it has looked more like a construction site than a posh residence.
But through all its travails, one thing hasn't changed about the building: Its vast ground-floor retail space, advertised as having 125 feet of Hudson River frontage, has never been occupied. The commercial broker, Sinvin Real Estate, has been offering potential tenants 18 months' free rent, but hasn't leased the space.
A blank storefront on a prominent site may not be easy on the eyes or good for the building's image. But is it a bad thing for the residents and the condo's finances in general? The answer is, probably not. 
After all, a 99-cent store or a noisy bar could have a negative effect on condominium prices, which is why real estate experts say that the wrong business can be worse for a building than no business at all. Developers are loath to bring in delis, dry cleaners and discount stores; everyone would like a Marc Jacobs boutique or, at the very least, a bank. Many developers have therefore been biding their time, rather than do anything to hurt the value of the residential units over the stores.
Some landlords or developers have the resources to wait out a recession or a downturn. And others have sold the retail spaces as condos to investors, who through carefully structured deals pay relatively low carrying charges.
At River Lofts, as retail space in the building has sat empty, condos upstairs have continued to sell for millions of dollars. The same is true at many other new or recent condo buildings, including high-profile ones like Richard Meier's 165 Charles Street and Jean Nouvel's ''vision machine'' at 100 11th Avenue.
''If the developer has done well upstairs, he can afford to wait as long as he wants downstairs,'' said Faith Hope Consolo, who heads the retail leasing and sales division of Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''Sometimes we bring them offers,'' she said of condo developers, ''and we don't even hear back.''
Ms. Consolo says the retail market, which has been weak for several years, appears to be recovering. There was ''as much activity in the first quarter of 2011 as in the second half of 2010,'' she said, referring to retail and restaurant leases in Manhattan. But, she said, the effects might not reach the out-of-the-way locations of most of the long-vacant retail spaces -- which she described as ''orphans.''
Richard Pandiscio, whose company has created the marketing campaigns for a number of expensive condo buildings, said that ''from a marketing perspective, a retail tenant that adds an element of convenience or prestige is a positive.'' But, he added, ''right now, with so many retail spaces empty, I doubt too many residents are bothered by an empty space on their ground floor.''
Mr. Pandiscio himself lives at 100 11th Avenue, the Jean Nouvel building, where early marketing materials showed a glamorous restaurant, on the ground floor. In fact, the space has never been rented.
Another building that has never had a retail tenant -- but where condo prices don't appear to have suffered -- is 165 Charles Street, where an apartment sold in February for $7.35 million. In that building, most of the retail frontage is around the corner from the residential entrance, meaning residents don't have to look at a dusty storefront as they come and go.
But some buildings, like the glass tower at the corner of 110th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard in Harlem, seem seriously diminished by the absence of retail tenants. There, the entire retail frontage facing Central Park is vacant and, with unpainted wallboards behind double-height glass, has a forlorn appearance. (A small deli and a Subway restaurant occupy two much smaller spaces on the east side of the building.) But repeated e-mails and calls to unit owners at the building, known as 111 Central Park North, failed to turn up a single complaint about the vacancies. True, owners are unlikely to speak candidly about buildings in which they have spent as much as $6 million for apartments.
But it is also true that, once they have bought, residents generally have little or no financial stake in whether the retail spaces are ever occupied.
That's because condo developers tend to retain the retail spaces for themselves, or sell them to investors. Last year, the retail spaces at 40 Mercer Street, a Jean Nouvel-designed building in SoHo, sold for an astounding $41.9 million. At 111 Central Park North, Tom Shapiro, an investor in Manhattan, recently paid $7 million for the retail spaces.
Mr. Shapiro said by e-mail that the businesses he had rented to -- the Subway and the deli, as well as a dry cleaner and a medical office that also have street-level access -- were doing well, and that other businesses were on their way. He said it was important to find tenants who would enhance the building. ''We are big believers in the future of Harlem and acquired the space to hold for the long term,'' he wrote.
The situation at River Lofts is similar. According to Christopher Owles, a principal of Sinvin, the retail space in that building is controlled by an investor, not the residents, ''so the loss in income isn't felt by anyone other than the owning party.''
The same is true at One Jackson Square, off 8th Avenue just south of 14th Street. Since the sponsor owns the units, said David Penick, a vice president for development at Hines, one of the developers, the vacancies ''have no effect on the finances of the condo.''
As for developers who retain the retail spaces in their buildings, most of them can afford to wait out a slow economy, said Louis V. Greco Jr., a prominent Brooklyn developer. That, Mr. Greco said, is because when the condo deals are structured, ''most of the operating costs of the building are attributable to the residential component.'' The retail spaces, by contrast, are assigned relatively low carrying charges.
One of Mr. Greco's projects, the 25-story tower called be@schermerhorn, on Schermerhorn Street in Downtown Brooklyn, has three large retail spaces, just one of which is rented. Mr. Greco said that, because his carrying costs are low and he believes the market ''is on an upswing,'' he had been sticking close to the asking price of $50 a square foot per year, rather than give the spaces away.
''The vacant retail space has not hurt the residential sales in that we only have one unit of the 246 left to sell,'' he said. And while condo owners may not have stores in their building, the first-rate gourmet shop Brooklyn Fare (with its Michelin-starred restaurant) is diagonally across the street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOR RENT: At 111 Central Park North, left, the retail frontage facing the park is vacant. The empty retail frontage at Richard Meier's 165 Charles Street, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESTAURANTS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (74%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (51%)

PERSON: GWYNETH PALTROW (73%); CHRIS MARTIN (73%); MARC JACOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



158 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Development Guidelines Prompt Clash

BYLINE: By JOHN UPTON. 
jupton@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Plans to build 12,000 homes in Redwood City are at the heart of an escalating spat between developers and environmentalists about proposed shoreline building guidelines to prepare the region for climate change. 
The San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission, a state agency, is drafting guidelines that would limit construction along undeveloped waterfronts and promote shoreline habitat restoration projects. Last month, after more than two years of public hearings, the business community sharply criticized the guidelines as anti-development.
Those complaints prompted minor revisions that would explicitly promote infill development, but business representatives said Thursday at a commission hearing in San Francisco that the changes did not go far enough.
Environmentalists, meanwhile, fervently support the guidelines, saying they are needed to protect residences and help nature adapt as the climate changes.
DMB Associates, the firm behind the ambitious Redwood City Saltworks development, spent more than $350,000 on lobbyists over the past year to influence and monitor the proposal and other state regulations and legislation, records show.
The developer has criticized the vague nature of the draft guidelines, saying they create uncertainty for the 1,437-acre project that has been the subject of five years of planning efforts. The company is looking at other Bay Area development opportunities that could also be affected.
''It talks generally about protection of areas,'' said David Smith, a DMB Associates vice president. ''We think it needs specificity on what's going to be protected and how.''
The Redwood City Saltworks development would create a dense residential community with homes, schools and retail outlets amid a chain of shoreline habitat restoration projects on the Cargill salt ponds on the edge of San Francisco Bay.
The draft guidelines allow for construction in some shoreline areas that are already developed because levees or other flood-control measures will most likely be put in place as seas rise. But the guidelines would require the protection of undeveloped areas if they could flood or provide refuge for wildlife.
According to Will Travis, executive director of the development commission, the guidelines are not hard-and-fast rules.
''We don't think the policies that we adopt should either pre-approve or pre-deny a permit anywhere,'' Mr. Travis said. ''If you're dealing with areas that have high potential for restoration, we would discourage development there. If you're trying to do a project that concentrates housing near transportation and jobs, that ought to be given high priority.''
Development plans for former Navy bases at Hunters Point and Treasure Island would not be affected, since these projects already meet or exceed many of the proposed guidelines, said Tiffany Bohee, a San Francisco economic development official.
The guidelines could be completed and adopted this fall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); LAND RECLAMATION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); FLOOD CONTROL (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); LOBBYING (77%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (77%); EXECUTIVES (65%); RETAILERS (64%); NAVIES (62%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

COMPANY: BAY AREA DEVELOPMENT CO (55%); CARGILL SALT (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (55%); NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (53%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



159 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: I Met My Future at the Mall

BYLINE: By ANN HOOD. 
Ann Hood is the author, most recently, of ''The Red Thread.''

 BODY:
Providence, R.I.
I GREW up at the Warwick Mall. When it opened in 1970, I was a skinny 13-year-old in bell-bottoms, scheming to meet my heartthrob, the singer Bobby Sherman. Although I lived less than a mile away, the mall, with its bubbling fountain and fancy department stores, felt a world apart, as if I could step out of my economically depressed mill town straight into some bright unknown future.
Every Saturday, I walked over the bridge that spanned the frothy brown Pawtuxet River, past the Dunkin' Donuts and into the mall, where my friends and I spent all day going in and out of stores, buying cheeseburgers and 45s and spritzing ourselves with perfume. 
There was a Filene's on one end and a Jordan Marsh on the other. And in between, the Outlet, Peerless, the York Steak House -- it offered exotic dishes like steak teriyaki and had a salad bar (the first I'd ever seen) -- a Woolworth's that sold everything from sewing kits to parakeets and, best of all, a bookstore.
I'd been reading since I was 4, but had never stepped into an actual bookstore before Waldenbooks. It was there I bought my first book, ''Love Story.'' Before I gave it to my cousin for her birthday, I read the entire thing, holding it half open so as not to crack the binding.
Eventually I got older, moved away and, like most of the magical things of youth, the mall lost its pull on me. While I was gone, recessions and unemployment took their toll on my home state. I got used to shopping in big cities and the mall seemed sadder and shabbier every time I came back to Rhode Island to visit.
But then, in the early '90s, I moved home. The mall had just been renovated. It still wasn't anything fancy, but it became a convenient place to take my young children to meet my parents for lunch. There was a carousel now in the food court, and for a few dollars we could put Sam and Grace on it again and again while we sat grinning at them amid the smells of Chinese food, pretzels and cinnamon. In this way, I reclaimed the mall, making it my own again.
Last March, I was out of town when the Pawtuxet River overflowed and flooded the neighborhoods along its banks. As I watched the news, images of the Warwick Mall appeared. Cars in the parking lot were submerged. Water racing around the corner of Macy's moved so quickly it had white caps.
Already hurting from the effects of the economic collapse, my hometown was now being destroyed by the worst flood in 100 years. It seemed to me then that all of the dreams and hopes of my youth were being washed away, as if nature was speaking directly to me, reminding me of all I had lost in the four decades since the Warwick Mall first opened its doors to me.
But Rhode Island's state motto, after all, is ''Hope.'' Later that day, Aram Garabedian, one of the managing partners of the mall, surveyed the damage with garbage bags on his feet. ''I was born and brought up in Rhode Island,'' he told me later on the telephone. ''I know what the mall means to Rhode Islanders.'' He had hung banners around the mall, above the waterline, that read, ''Count on us.''
Eighty stores closed, 1,000 jobs were lost and the damage was estimated at around $80 million. But the Warwick Mall rebuilt itself again. By August, 25 stores had reopened, including Target and Old Navy. Slowly, others followed. This spring, Macy's finally reopened its doors. Although some vacancies remain, Mr. Garabedian told me he has no doubt that they too will be filled. ''W.M. III will exceed II and I,'' he said.
The other day I went to the mall for the first time since before the flood. The floors in the concourse were shiny and the stores looked as bright and new as they did when I was 13. Slowly, I walked the same path I walked every Saturday of my teenage years. I could almost see my friend Jane working checkout at Woolworth's and Debbie scooping ice cream at Newport Creamery. I could see Beth beside me at Jordan Marsh, our long hair hanging straight and loose down our backs, our skin smelling of Love's Baby Soft perfume.
Standing in my own footprints, I could almost see the future still: even now, after everything, bright.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BY PAUL ROGERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); FLOODS & FLOODING (63%); CHILDREN (63%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (71%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (89%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



160 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2175 words

HEADLINE: The Curious Case of Nelson Obus

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
NELSON OBUS is on no one's list of Wall Street titans. He is just another guy who chased that golden dream: catch the morning train into Manhattan, run a small but prosperous hedge fund, catch the evening train out, back to a leafy island of suburban wealth.
But on the morning of July 11, 2002, a FedEx package from Washington arrived at his Midtown office, and his world collapsed beneath him.
Mr. Obus is the target of an insider trading investigation. 
He insisted from the start that he had done nothing wrong. But, almost a decade later, he is still fighting to clear his name. His case has become one of the longest-running civil actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission in recent memory - a sort of ''Les Miserables'' of Wall Street.
''This has turned into a nightmare,'' Mr. Obus, 64, says. He has run up $6 million in legal bills.
It might be difficult to rouse much sympathy for the likes of Nelson Obus. Federal authorities, after all, say insider trading is rampant on Wall Street, particularly among hedge funds like his. Hardly a week passes without the revelation of some financial skullduggery. Many ordinary Americans wonder why more Wall Street highfliers are not in trouble - or behind bars - after all those taxpayer bailouts and mortgage shenanigans.
Few people, aside from the accused, argue that the authorities should go easy on financial black hats who swindled investors. To the contrary: many say the S.E.C. and others have not been tough enough. Next to the fiascos of the financial collapse, insider trading almost seems old-fashioned. Some legal experts suspect the S.E.C. is pursuing insider trading cases to, in effect, make up for past failures, like sleeping through the Ponzi scheme that Bernard L. Madoff ran for so long.
''Regulators didn't do well with the Ponzi schemes, with the Madoffs of the world,'' says Robert A. Prentice, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin. ''Insider trading cases are something they know how to do.''
All of which makes the case of Nelson Obus all the more curious.
Whether Mr. Obus is guilty of trading stocks on an insider's tip a decade ago depends on whom you ask. The S.E.C. insists he is, and filed a case against him in 2006. But a federal judge late last year sided with Mr. Obus, ruling that the commission had failed to provide sufficient evidence and throwing out the case. Unbowed, the S.E.C. has appealed that decision. A commission spokesman declined to comment on the case.
Not since the days of Ivan F. Boesky in the 1980s has insider trading been discussed so much on or off Wall Street. The two-month trial of Raj Rajaratnam, the billionaire money manager who was convicted of securities fraud and conspiracy in May, seemed only to confirm many people's worst fears about this business: the game is rigged. (Mr. Rajaratnam is appealing.) Last month, an employee at the Nasdaq Stock Market pleaded guilty to trading on information he had gleaned from his perch in the exchange.
And so the Obus case - which began years before the housing market sputtered, Lehman Brothers collapsed and Mr. Rajaratnam was indicted - rolls on. It has pitted Mr. Obus, a man of considerable financial resources and, apparently, a will to fight, against an S.E.C. that is eager to show that it is back on the beat.
WHAT is insider trading, anyway? Most people probably view the actions embraced by that term much the way Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart summed up pornography: they know it when they see it. Someone gets a tip and trades on it. Case closed.
Legally, it is not so simple. In the United States, insider trading was not even addressed in the law until the 1930s, and it was not until the 1960s that the authorities began to crack down on the crime. Here is how the S.E.C. defines insider trading on its Web site today: ''Illegal insider trading refers generally to buying or selling a security, in breach of a fiduciary duty or other relationship of trust and confidence, while in possession of material, nonpublic information about the security.''
Federal prosecutors won a conviction of Mr. Rajaratnam with an approach more often associated with organized crime figures than stock traders: wiretaps. They produced hours of recorded telephone conversations that, to the jury, showed that Mr. Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group hedge fund, had used a vast network of executives and experts to glean information.
Few insider-trading cases are so clear-cut. A vast majority more closely resemble the case against Mr. Obus. It centers on a corporate acquisition in 2001 that will be remembered as a footnote in the annals of finance, if it is remembered at all. The S.E.C. says his hedge fund made $1.3 million trading on an inside tip about the deal.
Most people who are accused of insider trading make a deal with the authorities rather than face a jury, as Mr. Rajaratnam did. A settlement often involves forfeiting ill-gotten gains, paying a fine and being prohibited from serving as a director of a public company.
There is, of course, an unwritten penalty - the one exacted by the marketplace. Even a whisper of insider-trading allegations can effectively end careers and kill hedge funds. After getting caught up in the widening insider trading investigation, Level Global Investors, a $3 billion hedge fund in New York, liquidated its entire portfolio and closed in February.
Mr. Obus could have settled with the S.E.C. He still could. But he insists he will not, despite the urgings of friends and family members. In most cases, people settle without admitting or denying wrongdoing.
''That is the same as guilty to me,'' Mr. Obus says.
NELSON OBUS does not look like Gordon Gekko. He does not sound like Gordon Gekko. In fact, Mr. Obus comes across as a sort of an anti-Gekko. He rarely tucks in his shirt and often has dirt under his fingernails. His reading glasses, which have rhinestones at the temples, came from the women's display at Duane Reade. He grew up in Wynnefield, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia, in a downwardly mobile family that had made, then lost a fortune in the wool business. After earning a master's in political science from Brandeis University, Mr. Obus turned down a job on Wall Street and taught natural history for organizations like the Massachusetts Audubon Society. Then, in 1981, a friend from Philadelphia offered him a job at the investment bank Lazard, and Mr. Obus decided it was time to ''come in from the woods.''
Eleven years later, in 1992, he struck out on his own, founding a hedge fund, Wynnefield Partners, named after his old neighborhood. Today the firm manages $280 million in assets.
SunSource of Philadelphia was never a sexy company. It mostly sold industrial products like nuts and bolts. But Mr. Obus knew the company because it was based where he grew up, and he had bought nearly 6 percent of it.
Then, in May 2001, the Allied Capital Corporation, an old-line investment firm, began circling SunSource, and Mr. Obus, according to the S.E.C.'s complaint, made a fateful decision.
The General Electric Company, which has a big finance arm, was looking to bankroll an Allied-SunSource deal. Brad Strickland, an associate at G.E., noticed Wynnefield owned a lot of SunSource stock and spoke to a friend there, Peter F. Black. Both insist they didn't talk about the pending merger.
''It was pretty vague,'' Mr. Black later told investigators of the conversation. He said he was simply doing broad due diligence on SunSource. Mr. Black told Mr. Obus that he had had a call from someone at G.E. who had questions about SunSource's management. Mr. Obus picked up the phone and called the chief executive of SunSource. According to the S.E.C., Mr. Obus told him that ''a little birdie'' had told him SunSource might be in play.
Mr. Obus has a different recollection. He says he told the executive that he had heard SunSource was thinking of a financing arrangement, which he felt might hurt existing shareholders.
Whatever the case, Wynnefield bought more SunSource stock two weeks later, at $4.75 a share. A few weeks after that, Allied Capital announced its buyout of SunSource, and the stock almost doubled.
Just how the S.E.C. caught wind of Mr. Obus's trade is unclear. Mr. Obus says he did not think about the deal again until the FedEx package arrived from Washington, 13 months later.
In its complaint against Mr. Obus, Mr. Black and Mr. Strickland, the S.E.C. claimed the men had ''knowingly or recklessly violated'' securities laws. Mr. Obus's lawyer, Joel M. Cohen, countered that Mr. Strickland had not violated any duty to G.E. There is no evidence, Mr. Cohen said, that he said anything that would violate his duty to G.E., and G.E. had not entered into a confidentiality agreement with SunSource.
The lawyer also says that Mr. Obus had never deceitfully traded on the information - a crucial component of the legal definition of insider trading. In fact, Mr. Obus went as far as to call the C.E.O. of the target company and tell him what he knew.
''MAD DOG.'' That is what people inside the S.E.C., and out on Wall Street, call Leo Wang. Mr. Wang was an enforcer at the S.E.C., and his doggedness has won him some high-profile victories. He was a player in bringing down Dennis Levine, a powerful investment banker and prominent figure in the insider trading scandals of Boesky era.
Mr. Wang says he ''vaguely remembers'' the Obus case. In documents filed in connection with the case, the S.E.C. painted a picture of an insider-trading conspiracy. They claimed that Mr. Strickland and Mr. Black met over drinks at the Bryant Park Grill in Midtown to coordinate responses to the S.E.C. Both men say they met but did not coordinate. Lawyers for the men declined to comment.
Mr. Obus's lawyer, Mr. Cohen, said he told Mr. Wang early on that the S.E.C. had a weak case. Why would Mr. Obus call the C.E.O. of SunSource and say he had been tipped?
''There is no understanding the reasoning of a criminal mind,'' Mr. Wang replied, according to Mr. Cohen. Mr. Wang says that is not something he would say. For a time, the matter seemed to die. Then in April 2006, a month before the statute of limitations was to expire, the S.E.C. filed insider trading charges against the three men, all of whom have not settled.
''We are simply astounded that this lawsuit was filed at all,'' Mr. Obus wrote in a letter to his fund investors on April 26, 2006.
One of the last things anyone wants to hear about people who manage their money is that they have been accused of wrongdoing. Some Wynnefield investors headed for the exits, withdrawing about $20 million from the fund.
''We deeply regret to have to inform you of our intent to withdraw 100 percent of our interest,'' a big investor wrote in an e-mail to Wynnefield that April. ''Our investment guidelines prevent us from investing with managers that are the subject of regulatory actions like the suit filed by the S.E.C.''
Later, as the financial crisis struck, JPMorgan Chase severed ties with Wynnefield, Mr. Obus says. So did Republic National Bank. Mr. Obus, an activist investor who sometimes seeks board seats, also was rebuffed by corner offices. For instance, Crown Crafts, which makes baby products, told shareholders to reject Mr. Obus as a board member because of the S.E.C. action.
In April 2006, Linda C. Thomsen, the director of enforcement at the S.E.C., testified on Capitol Hill about insider trading. In her written testimony, which appeared on the S.E.C.'s Web site, she said Mr. Obus had settled with the commission.
He hadn't.
''I was speechless when I saw this,'' Mr. Obus recalled. The S.E.C. later amended the testimony on its site.
Dejected, Mr. Obus went to visit a business acquaintance, Kenneth Langone, the founder of Home Depot. Mr. Langone had had his own scrapes with the authorities.
Mr. Langone showed Mr. Obus a transcript of a deposition with Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general at the time, who in 2004 had accused Mr. Langone of misleading fellow directors of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Langone had settled claims brought against him in the '80s, which were dredged up in the Spitzer deposition. Mr. Langone told Mr. Obus he has always regretted settling those charges in the '80s, both men say.
NELSON OBUS finally got his day in court last September. In a 33-page decision, federal Judge George B. Daniels wrote that the S.E.C. had failed to demonstrate that Mr. Strickland, the supposed tipper, had breached a duty to either SunSource or G.E. ''The S.E.C. acknowledges that its case is based, in large part, upon circumstantial evidence that a duty existed,'' the judge said. Additionally, the S.E.C. failed to prove that Mr. Obus had tried to deceive anyone.
The S.E.C. has appealed Judge Daniel's decision. A final decision could come this year.
Mr. Obus says he will not give up now. He says he still remembers the advice that Mr. Langone gave him in 2007, ''You will find that defending your character is a good use of financial resources.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Accused of insider trading in 2002, Nelson Obus refuses to settle: ''That is the same as guilty to me.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
 Nelson Obus, who studied politics and taught natural history before going to Wall Street, has played touch football with a league in New Jersey. (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); PONZI SCHEMES (86%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); EVIDENCE (64%); JUDGES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



161 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: 'City Family' Has a Nice Ring, but It Looks a Lot Like a Machine

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LESLY STEVENS. 
estevens@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Elizabeth Lesly Stevens writes a column for The Bay Citizen.
Mobsters have the Cosa Nostra. Oil producers have OPEC. And San Francisco has its City Family.
The term is much in use lately. Mayor Edwin Lee invoked it in unveiling a pension-reform plan produced after months of working with the city's unions, elected officials, City Hall executives and the financier Warren Hellman (who is chairman of The Bay Citizen).
Declaring it the plan of ''the official City Family,'' Mr. Lee pronounced himself well satisfied with a proposal that falls far short of the savings he declared critical just three months ago. 
Other ideas, notably a measure advanced by Jeff Adachi, the city's public defender, are, to Mr. Lee, unworthy of discussion.
In this one-party town, members of the family may be progressive Democrats or moderate Democrats, gay or straight, teetotalers or potheads. At the end of the day, however, they can be counted on to act with remarkable public cohesiveness.
Of course, the term has a different meaning in times of civic tragedy. A city firefighter was killed Thursday, and another critically injured. No one questions Mr. Lee or city officials' sincere offerings of sympathy.
Yet the charm of the City Family gathering to sing ''Kumbaya'' in celebration of political compromise can be a glib bit of theater, masking the fact that the needs of a complex, changing community are not being addressed.
The City Family is ''a powerful metaphor for conformity,'' said Matt Gonzalez, an ally of Mr. Adachi and a former president of the Board of Supervisors. ''It's a rhetorical tool, and it's very powerful.''
As a phrase and as a political force, the City Family is enjoying a renaissance, said Eric Jaye, a veteran political consultant. He traces the term's origin to the powerful troika of Willie Brown, Representative Phillip Burton and his brother, John Burton, now head of the California Democratic Party, who ruled the city (and played an oversize role in California politics) for decades. The phrase's return to vogue marks ''the return of this organization to political ascendancy,'' Mr. Jaye said.
In many cities, this would be called a political machine. In San Francisco, gentler language is preferred.
Gabriel Metcalf, who heads the San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association, or SPUR, a good-government group, was among the City Family folks who appeared at Mr. Lee's announcement of the pension deal (though SPUR has not yet decided which pension measure to endorse). Mr. Metcalf has broken ranks with the City Family on a couple of issues in recent years, and he knows the cost.
''In San Francisco, there seems to be a belief in thought crimes,'' he said, ''meaning that people who speak out, say things they are not supposed to say, will be shunned.''
No one has been shunned more in the last year than Mr. Adachi. Since he first introduced a pension-reform measure last year, he has been a pariah to the City Family. When Mayor Lee first met with department heads after taking office in January, he warned Mr. Adachi against renewing his divisive efforts. Union leaders refused to take part in any meetings that included Mr. Adachi.
Even San Francisco's watchdog -- the city's Ethics Commission -- is a member of the family. Last month, when Dennis Herrera, the city attorney and a mayoral candidate, found himself facing a lobbying scandal involving his campaign manager, he made a public to-do of referring the matter to an outside agency, Oakland's city attorney. Alex Katz, communications director for that office, initially told The Bay Citizen that he was not aware of the case. Upon checking, he said that the investigation has since been handed over to -- the San Francisco Ethics Commission.
Who appointed one of the five commissioners? Mr. Herrera. Who appointed the other four? The mayor, the district attorney, the assessor and the Board of Supervisors -- all elected officials whose ethics the commission is supposed to police.
Chris Daly, the outre supervisor who termed out of office in January, has almost nothing in common with Mr. Adachi. But Mr. Daly, too, is an untouchable as far as the City Family is concerned -- perhaps one reason his post-elective life features a broom and a bar towel.
''Social institutions need to recreate and reinforce'' San Francisco's economic and political status quo, Mr. Daly said from the bar he now operates blocks from City Hall. ''The City Family, they are the caretakers of that order. As long as you stay in line, it's all good.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POLITICS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (77%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



162 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: The 30-Minute Interview/T. J. Gottesdiener

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Gottesdiener, 56, is a managing partner in the New York office of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, one of the world's largest architectural firms, best known for its skyscrapers.
During his three decades at SOM, Mr. Gottesdiener has been involved in several major projects, including One World Trade Center, 7 World Trade Center, the Time Warner Center and the Lever House renovation.
Q You've been called the most famous architect few have heard of. Any comment? 
A My comment is thank you -- that's a compliment. That's a real testament to the way Skidmore works, which is about all of us working together and not one person being the most important part of the project. It's all about the buildings.
Look, throughout the course of history at this firm there have been famous names -- you might go to Gordon Bunshaft or Bruce Graham, and people know the name David Childs. Frankly, a lot of the name recognition you see has been created, whether by clients or by marketing.
Q Having said that, do you have a favorite architect?
A I would probably say Le Corbusier. There was something about his innovation and his plasticity about design. Although a lot of his urban projects that many people know about -- Towers in the Park -- are probably real disasters, there were other projects that were quite fascinating.
Q Let's move on to one of SOM's biggest projects, One World Trade Center. What's your role there?
A SOM is the architect for Tower One, and we're leading all of that design and effort. My role is managing that process.
Q So where do we stand in the process?
A We're about 65 floors. They're setting steel at the rate of a floor per week. We're about the height of 7 World Trade Center, which is over 700 feet, and things are really falling into place.
Q Were you concerned by the numerous delays?
A People have commented that it's taken a long time, and my comment is, I don't think so. Look where we are now. We've had so many obstacles because of the conditions of the site: A lot of it was below the grade; it's over active PATH tracks; we're holding back the Hudson River, basically on reclaimed land. This is probably the most complicated building I've ever done.
Q And there have been more complications. Last month, the Port Authority vetoed the idea of having 2,000 glass panels installed at the base, in part because of technical problems.
A As it was manufactured, the glass at the base of One World Trade Center simply did not perform as we were promised, so we are in the process of redesigning it. Things like this happen occasionally, and that is why we have developed such a thorough process.
Q How did all the safety issues affect the building's design?
A Well, I hope for you and everybody else who's at the building, there's no effect. But for us as designers there was a big impact.
When the towers came down after 9/11, we had to rethink the building codes, and 7 World Trade Center was the first one that implemented a lot of the ideas before the code had even been enacted. A lot of nuances and major things have changed in designing high-rise buildings.
Q Some of the new codes came at the suggestion of SOM, right?
A Many of our people were involved with the city in rewriting the codes. We have, for example, all kinds of redundancies in building systems. Fire protection has cross-connections, so if there's one sprinkler that is out of service, the other one will cover it. We've increased stair widths to allow firefighters to climb upstairs while people exit. There are little things, like phosphorescent tape in the egress stairs.
It was done at 7 World Trade Center. They were almost experiments, because the code had not yet been enacted.
Q Is the rebuilding at ground zero a career-definer?
A I definitely would think that this is one of the greatest achievements that I've been able to work on. But I said that about the Time Warner Center and I said that about Tokyo Midtown.
Q Let's talk about some other projects in New York.
A The John Jay College of Criminal Justice expansion project is close to being finished. We are doing a rather low building that will essentially become their campus. And we're starting the first phase of the Moynihan Station redevelopment.
Q Is the firm doing anything to celebrate its 75th year this year?
A No. We thought about it, and talked about it. But the one thing we thought most about was what are we going to do for the next 75 years, to move forward.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%)

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



163 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 2871 words

HEADLINE: Bulb In Bulb Out

BYLINE: By ANDREW RICE

 BODY:
Over the past few years, in conditions of strict secrecy, a multinational team of scientists has been making a mighty effort to change the light bulb. The prototype they've developed is four inches tall, with a familiar tapered shape, and unlighted, it resembles a neon yellow mushroom. Screw it in and switch it on, though, and it blazes with a voluptuous radiance. It represents what people within the lighting industry often call their holy grail, an invention that reproduces the soft luminance of the incandescent bulb -- Thomas Edison's century-old technology -- but conforms to much higher standards of energy efficiency and durability. The prototype is supposed to last for more than 22 years, maybe as long as you own your house, so you won't need to stock up at the supermarket. And that's fortunate, because one day very soon, traditional incandescent bulbs won't be available in stores anymore. They're about to be effectively outlawed. 
As a consumer product, light bulbs belong to what one industry executive calls a ''low-thought category,'' and yet, of late, they've become a surprising flash point. Conservatives like Rush Limbaugh have denounced the ''light-bulb ban'' -- actually, a new set of federal efficiency regulations that the traditional incandescent can't meet -- as a symbolic case of environmentalist overreaching, and Michele Bachmann invoked it in the Tea Party's response to the State of the Union. Wherever your political sympathies lie, you may have found yourselves nodding along with Representative Joe Barton, a Texas Republican who has lambasted the harsh glare given off by those ''little, squiggly, pigtailed'' compact fluorescents. When it comes to making light, a fundamental necessity of human civilization, libertarians and aesthetes are joined in an unlikely alliance. Environmental groups say the complainers are a cranky minority -- that consumers will eventually get used to new light -- but those in the illumination business can't afford to be so sanguine. And that is why, inside a drab Silicon Valley office building belonging to a company called Lumileds, some of the industry's most brilliant minds are plumbing the mysteries of light on an atomic level, working to devise the bulb of the future.
Lumileds, a subsidiary of the Dutch conglomerate Royal Philips Electronics, specializes in the manufacture of light-emitting diodes (L.E.D.'s), tiny semiconductor chips similar to the ones you'd find within your computer, except that they turn electricity into photons instead of information. Behind the walls of the company's hermetically clean manufacturing facility, technicians wearing white jumpsuits, puffy caps and rubber gloves work at enormous humming reactors, combining various gases at 1,000 degrees centigrade to ''grow'' the crystalline substance that forms the critical element of L.E.D.'s.
Philips created its L.E.D. bulb to compete for the L Prize, a government-sponsored award meant to encourage the development of a replacement for the 60-watt incandescent before the new standards begin to go into effect in January. Traditional incandescents are extremely inefficient, giving off 90 percent of their energy as heat, not light, and over the years, the government and the lighting industry tried to move consumers on to products like halogens and compact fluorescents. But no amount of subsidy or ''green'' branding has managed to woo consumers away from Edison's bulb. ''Not only is it in alignment with the type of light that consumers like,'' says David DiLaura, author of ''A History of Light and Lighting.'' ''It's commoditized and it's cheap.''
So some years ago, Philips formed a coalition with environmental groups including the Natural Resources Defense Council to push for higher standards. ''We felt that we needed to make a call, and show that the best-known lighting technology, the incandescent light bulb, is at the end of its lifetime,'' says Harry Verhaar, the company's head of strategic sustainability initiatives. Philips told its environmental allies it was well positioned to capitalize on the transition to new technologies and wanted to get ahead of an efficiency movement that was gaining momentum abroad and in states like California. Other manufacturers were more wary, but they also understood the downside to selling a ubiquitous commodity: the profit margin on a bulb that sells for a quarter is negligible. After much negotiation, the industry and environmental groups agreed to endorse tightening efficiency by 25 to 30 percent.
A bipartisan bill passed Congress with little notice in 2007, but protests have mounted as the phaseout nears, and lighting companies need to prove to the public that efficient products can also be easy on the eye. ''The morality of the global threat'' is one way to push people toward more-efficient lighting, Verhaar says. ''But I think that a larger number of people are going to be mobilized based on the lighting benefits.''
''Roughly three-quarters of the four billion light sockets in the United States still have this inefficient, 130-year-old product,'' says Noah Horowitz, senior scientist at the N.R.D.C. Filling those billions of sockets represents not just a technological challenge but also an opportunity the industry hasn't encountered since Edison first flipped a switch.
The notion oflight as a thoughtless commodity would have seemed fanciful to our distant ancestors. Before electricity, light was expensive, a product of exhaustible sources like whale oil. It was Edison who finally took it to the masses in limitless quantities. On Dec. 31, 1879, the inventor invited a crowd of thousands to his laboratory in Menlo Park, N.J., to witness a demonstration of his fantastic innovation, described in a patent as an ''electric lamp for giving light by incandescence.'' Building on the experimentation of others, Edison had devised a practical method for generating illumination by running a current through a rudimentary filament -- a carbonized strip of cardboard -- encased inside a vacuum-sealed glass bulb. When the inventor lighted the lamp, it glowed orange, ''like the mellow sunset of an Italian autumn,'' a contemporary newspaper said.
Almost immediately, though, there were complaints. Some detractors saw electric light as unnatural and reddish, lacking the comforting attributes of a gas flame. But with further refinements -- the cardboard filament was replaced by bamboo, and later tungsten -- quality improved. At first, bulbs were fairly expensive: in 1891, one went for 44 cents, more than $10 when adjusted for inflation. But Edison accurately predicted that costs would plummet as electricity vanquished all competing technologies.
After that, advancement in home lighting more or less came to a halt. A century ago, incandescent lamps with tungsten filaments lasted about 1,000 hours (same as today's), were only slightly dimmer and sold in the familiar varieties of 40, 60 and 100 watts. Edison didn't worry about how many watts they consumed; after all, he also owned an electric company. Efficiency wasn't an issue until the energy crisis of the 1970s, which inspired compact fluorescents, but they went over poorly and never made much of a dent in the incandescent's market domination.
The compact fluorescent's failings were a matter of price -- the first ones sold for $25 to $35 a bulb -- and taste. American consumers seem to prefer incandescence, for reasons connected to the science of light. ''What we term 'light' does not exist without the human eye -- it's just radiation,'' says Nadarajah Narendran, a professor at the Lighting Research Center at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. ''Your eye is a detector that senses this energy coming to it at different wavelengths.'' Those wavelengths are perceived as colors. Natural light combines all the colors of the visual spectrum. When people complain that fluorescent light is cold, what they're really describing is an overload of radiation at the bluish wavelengths.
''I don't think it's cultural; I think it's much deeper than that, that our reaction to long-wavelength light is warm and short-wavelength light is cold,'' David DiLaura says. Humans don't see all wavelengths equally well; DiLaura says the eye's ''sensitivity curve'' is adapted to the spectral composition of light on the African savanna. The light that surrounds us can have psychological and physical effects. Research has suggested that altering wavelengths can affect students' attention and that patients on the south side of a hospital, which gets more light, recover more quickly than those on the north. So it's hardly surprising that the incandescent phaseout has prompted a visceral reaction.
Boosters say L.E.D.'s can be calibrated to create light that's just as good as -- maybe better than -- natural. They have long been used for low-intensity applications, like the digits on your microwave, but it was only about a decade ago that a cadre of physicists began to awaken the industry to their wider potential. Roland Haitz, a scientist associated with Lumileds, argued that just as computer chips were becoming exponentially more powerful, L.E.D.'s were getting brighter and cheaper at a predictable rate, a proposition now known as Haitz's Law. Transitioning to L.E.D.'s, Haitz forecast, would cut the amount of electricity used for lighting by more than 50 percent worldwide, eliminating some 200 million tons of carbon emissions a year.
Individual L.E.D.'s come in precise wavelengths -- gradations of red, green, blue and so on -- and can be combined to appeal to the way the eye assimilates light. Inside Philips's L Prize bulb, 24 red and blue L.E.D.'s are divided into four quadrants and covered by a curved yellow shell. When they are turned on, they send a stream of red and blue photons through the casing, which contains a phosphor that converts some particles to yellow, and they mix to create white light that looks nearly identical to incandescent. The bulb runs on less than 10 watts of electricity.
Much of the crucial basic research behind the bulb was done by a specialized group of about 40 Lumileds scientists. They continually work to improve the L.E.D. performance by experimenting with the closely guarded ''recipe'' used to cook up the diodes by combining molecules of indium, gallium and nitrogen. ''The material system is not very well understood,'' says Ted Mihopoulos, who heads the department. Minuscule changes in temperature inside a reactor can yield significant variations in color and brightness. People sometimes say that L.E.D.'s are like diamonds; no two are exactly alike. When the time came to build an L Prize prototype, Mihopoulos said he culled the 24 brightest diodes from his lab's private stash.
''The L Prize is the Rolls-Royce,'' Christoph Hoelen, one of the bulb's lead developers, says. ''Then the question beyond that is, how do you make a good car that is affordable?'' Philips recently brought out the AmbientLED, a clunkier version of its competition design, which Hoelen called his Honda. It incorporates fewer L.E.D.'s and is a bit dimmer and less efficient, but it's still as bright as a 60-watt incandescent, and it is advertised to last 17 years. The bulb's affordability is relative, though. At the Home Depot closest to Lumileds, I saw the AmbientLED marked at $39.97.
If Haitz's Law holds true, that price will come down, but persuading consumers to pay even a fraction of it for a light bulb is going to require a serious marketing effort. ''It's a different sale than we're used to,'' said Ed Crawford, a top executive in Philips's lighting division. Over lunch at its corporate offices in Somerset, N.J., near Edison's old lab, Crawford told me he started out with the Philips subsidiary Norelco, retailing electric razors. ''The sale is really the same,'' he said. ''You can buy a razor for a dollar that you can use to shave your face -- or you can buy an appliance.'' An AmbientLED will last as long as an electric razor, and while that means Philips will be giving up many disposable-bulb sales, the comparatively high prices (and 20 to 30 percent margins) currently prevailing in the L.E.D. marketplace will make the tradeoff extremely profitable, at least in the short term.
The key for the industry will be getting the price below $10, generally considered the magic number for consumers, without compromising quality. Many leading L.E.D. manufacturers doubt that is feasible in the near term and have decided to focus on developing light sources for commercial settings like stores and hotels. With the phaseout, homeowners should initially move to hybrid halogen bulbs, a transitional product that only barely meets the new regulations, and compact fluorescents. But the industry is well aware that the alternatives are polarizing -- Crawford said his own wife won't allow fluorescents into their home -- and that's why so much R. and D. is going into L.E.D.'s and programs like the government's L Prize.
The prize is $10 million, but the real reward will come in the form of bragging rights and federal procurement contracts. For now, only one other company, the Florida-based Lighting Science Group, has produced a prototype that claims to meet the contest's stringent performance criteria, and testing is ongoing. ''The idea here was, Let's set a very high standard,'' says Senator Jeff Bingaman, a Democrat who was responsible for putting the L Prize program into the 2007 lighting-efficiency legislation.
Switching to new technologies, advocates claim, will save as much electricity each year as is consumed by all the homes in Texas. Opponents of the new regulations, however, question the projected environmental benefits, pointing out that lighting accounts for less than 10 percent of total U.S. energy consumption. In March, Bingaman convened a Senate committee hearing on the new standards. Two Republicans, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Jim Risch of Idaho, used the occasion to denounce free-market infringement. Paul pressed Kathleen Hogan, a D.O.E. official, to say whether she was pro-choice before going off into a long disquisition on liberty. ''I find it really appalling and hypocritical . . . that you favor a woman's right to an abortion but you don't favor a woman or a man's right to choose what kind of light bulb,'' Paul said. ''I really find it troubling, this busybody nature.''
Later, the committee heard from a panel of experts, including Howard Brandston, a former professor at R.P.I.'s Lighting Research Center. Brandston's resume includes everything from theater work to illuminating the Statue of Liberty, but lately he has become the Paul Revere of the movement to save the light bulb, giving speeches to industry conferences and a Tea Party rally in front of the White House. In his testimony, he warned of potential problems with compact fluorescents, which contain trace amounts of mercury. ''Some of the most knowledgeable people I know,'' Brandston said, ''have begun to stockpile a lifetime supply of incandescent lamps.''
A few weeks later, Brandston showed me his own hoard, in the basement of his handsomely lighted farmhouse in upstate New York. ''This is the world's greatest marketing scheme,'' he said. ''You get the government to ban the competition.'' A slight man with an air of gray-bearded grandiloquence, Brandston contends that his root objection to the law, which he calls ''immoral,'' is connected to his professional appreciation of incandescence, which mimics the natural spectrum. ''It's what we grew up with -- it's sunlight,'' Brandston told me earlier on the phone.
Joined by Kevin Simonson, a former student, we went out to Brandston's garage workshop, where he had set up a spectrometer above a table with three light sockets. Brandston turned on one socket, which contained an incandescent, and a readout appeared on the laptop that was hooked to the spectrometer: a smooth bell curve across the visual spectrum, running from blue on the left to red on the right. Then he switched to a compact fluorescent, and an ugly pattern of spikes appeared. ''If you can live with that, O.K.,'' Brandston said with a huff. ''But what you've done is you've taken away my choice.''
From my bag I retrieved a Philips L Prize entry, which had been burning agreeably in my office for weeks. Brandston looked at the yellow thing skeptically -- he'd told me he considers L.E.D.'s ''a fad'' -- and screwed it into a socket. The bulb gave off a lustrous white light, but the computer readout showed a spectral composition very different from the incandescent's: a little bit of blue, more green and yellow and a tall peak of red -- a combination engineered, according to Lumileds scientists, to the eye's sensitivities.
''That's not bad,'' Simonson said. But Brandston remained stubbornly unimpressed. ''It lacks the vibrancy,'' he said, and he began to seek out faults, finding that the bulb took on a sickly green hue when it was dimmed. Anyway, the whole project seemed absurd to him: why create a technological marvel just to reproduce the light we already have? When Brandston turned on the incandescent, he beamed with satisfaction at Edison's warm and wasteful glow. ''Look at that,'' he said. ''It's a perfect thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENJI AOKI) (MM44
 MM45) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (63%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (60%)

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (51%)

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (51%); PHIA (AMS) (51%); PHG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JOE BARTON (50%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%); MICHELE BACHMANN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



164 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: The Glory of Their Times

BYLINE: By BILL SCHEFT. 
Bill Scheft is a writer for ''Late Show With David Letterman.'' His third novel, ''Everything Hurts,'' is now available in paperback.

 BODY:
JOE DiMAGGIO
The Long Vigil
By Jerome Charyn
170 pp. Yale University Press. $24.
HANK GREENBERG
The Hero Who Didn't Want to Be One
By Mark Kurlansky
164 pp. Yale University Press. $25.
Yale University Press, the pre-eminent academic publishing house, founded in 1908 by George Parmly Day, decided to roll out two books on baseball in the same month of 2011. Who wants to tell the Mayans their calendar is a year off?
What seems as promising as spring training for a Mariners fan ends up in a doubleheader split. Both books are remarkably economical biographies, but Mark Kurlansky's scholarly slice of Hank Greenberg is always winning, while the novelist Jerome Charyn's earnest attempt to restore Joe DiMaggio to his former untouchable perch falls in the final innings. 
''Joe DiMaggio: The Long Vigil'' is Charyn's affectionate defense of his idol and an answer to what he clearly feels is the bullying DiMaggio has taken in print since his death in 1999. The effort is noble, the writing at times soaring (''a man who had no language outside the lyricism of his own body''), but the execution is pure term paper. Footnoted to within an inch of its life (210 notes in 146 pages of text), the book contains one interview by the author. One. It's Mr. Coffee to go.
Part I, ''The Player,'' gallops through DiMaggio's Yankee career, which began in adulation in 1936, when he was carried in on the shoulders of Italian-Americans (who then made up 17 percent of New York City's population), and breezed on despite a wounded heel and Yankee Stadium's unforgiving dimensions for right-handed hitters. That is, until 1951, when DiMaggio was bedeviled by the first of two M.M.'s, a fleet rookie outfielder from Oklahoma.
That DiMaggio once boycotted his Batcave at Toots Shor's after he saw a photo/graph of the owner with his arm around Mickey Mantle is preface and portent for Part II, ''The Demon Lover,'' which centers on DiMaggio's 274-day marriage to Marilyn Monroe and the ensuing wreckage. In his 1966 Esquire magazine Tour de Joe D., ''The Silent Season of a Hero,'' Gay Talese refers to Oscar Levant, who said their union ''proved that no man could be a success in two national pastimes.'' But that line has no ibid. in this thesis, as Charyn coughs up conjecture that had Marilyn not had the bad taste to die, Joe not only might have made their re/marriage work, she might have helped him reconcile with his son, Joe Jr.
Charyn interjects himself just enough to be distracting. About DiMaggio's courtship of Monroe, he says, ''Soon they were seen everywhere, but it still makes me suspicious.'' And he repeats David Halberstam's persuasive theory that DiMaggio's fame lasted so long because he was the last great hero of the radio era and was not physically reduced by TV, before adding, ''But I'm not convinced.'' You're not convinced? What about the rest of us?
The publisher positions the work as a sympathetic rebuttal to Richard Ben Cramer's withering 2000 biography, ''Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life,'' but with more than 30 footnotes citing that book, this one is more of an ad for it. You want to revise the record and change some minds?Take a lesson from ''Ghosts of Manila,'' Mark Kram's bold recasting of Ali and Frazier: interview a second guy. However impressively annotated the book is, behind the stacks of index cards is a fan seeking DiMaggio's approval. If David Fincher were filming it, the final scene would have Charyn sending a friend request.
Other than the Yale imprints -- Charyn's biography is part of the ''Icons of America'' series, and Kurlansky's belongs to the ''Jewish Lives'' series -- the only true /nexus between these books arrives on Page 112 of ''Hank Greenberg: The Hero Who Didn't Want to Be One.'' Kurlansky notes that Greenberg's first wife, Caral (of the Gimbel fortune), ''could not understand why Marilyn Monroe had married a man as dull as Joe DiMaggio.''
Many fewer people know the story of Greenberg, which is just one of three advantages afforded Kurlansky. The second is original research, which Kurlansky (the author of ''Salt,'' ''Cod'' and the low-sodium ''Food of a Younger Land'') is no stranger to. Twenty-four interviews.
The third is the humility of his subject. ''Humility is part of the central mystery of Hank Greenberg,'' Kurlansky concludes. ''At every juncture of his life, while his qualities and accomplishments were being celebrated, Greenberg could always be counted on to punch holes in his image, calling all the praise an exaggeration.''
In 1934, his second year in the big leagues, a mythical Hank Greenberg was created. After hitting two home runs to help the Tigers defeat the Red Sox on Rosh Hashana, he sat out a game on Yom Kippur and would be eternally feted. The following year, he broke his wrist during Game 2 of the World Series and sat out the last four games, including Game 6, which also fell on Yom Kippur. Thanks to the vagaries of the Jewish calendar, Greenberg never had to make the choice again. But the perpetual press release was written: ''He never played on Yom Kippur.''
That decision rejiggered the former Hyman Greenberg into ''a muscular 6-foot-4-inch bulwark against anti-Semitism,'' and the wrist injury ''made it possible for the legend of the religious Greenberg to flourish.'' Kurlansky adroitly weaves the reluctance with which Greenberg wore this symbolic tallit throughout his life. The Tigers hardly hungered for a star Jewish player as the Yankees did for an Italian. Louis Brandeis regarded Detroit, home to Henry Ford and Father Coughlin, as the most anti-Semitic city in the country. Nine years before Greenberg played his first game for the Tigers, Ford had run a Page 1 headline in his Dearborn Independent: ''The Peril of Baseball -- 'Too Much Jew.' ''
Against this ugly backdrop, Kurlansky is refreshingly outward-looking. Everything is put in context, especially the relationship of Jews to sports and sports to Jews as a path to assimilation. Indeed, Greenberg's first triumph was overcoming the stereotype among Jews that making a living in baseball was ''disgraceful employment.''
Kurlansky offers a wonderful section on baseball during World War II -- Greenberg was the first active major leaguer to enlist after Pearl Harbor -- when rosters were decimated. The games resembled a scrimmage at fantasy camp.
The most encyclopedic baseball historian will have to clear archive space for new information. Before his last season, with the Pirates in 1947, Greenberg negotiated a one-year non/renewable deal, circumventing baseball's slave-based reserve clause and making him essentially the game's first free agent. Later, he became a co-owner of the Indians and a major force in integrating baseball once Jackie Robinson broke the color line. In the early '50s, Greenberg signed more black players than anyone else. Twenty years later, he was one of a half-handful of baseball people to testify on behalf of Curt Flood in his suit against the reserve clause.
The best definition of humility I know is ''the ability to be inconvenienced.'' Di/Maggio spent his life burnishing his icon. Greenberg never endorsed his image and corrected it when he could; he disputed the fable that pitchers refused to throw him strikes when he was chasing Babe Ruth's single-season home run record in 1938 (he finished with 58). That was his conflict. There was no such conflict with DiMaggio, who once considered suing Paul Simon for using his name in ''Mrs. Robinson.'' Whoa, whoa, whoa. . . .

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hank Greenberg and Joe DiMaggio at Yankee Stadium, September 1939. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM BETTMANN/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); ATHLETES (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); POPULATION SIZE (68%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (64%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (93%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Joe DiMaggio: The Long Vigil (Book); Hank Greenberg: The Hero Who Didnt Want to Be One (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



165 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; SUMMER READING; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2479 words

HEADLINE: Travel

BYLINE: By JOSHUA HAMMER


HIGHLIGHT: Joshua Hammer, a former Newsweek bureau chief, is a freelance foreign correspondent. He is writing a book about German colonialism in southern Africa.

 BODY:
Failed relationships, broken marriages and dead-end careers are among the catalysts that lead this season's travel writers to hit the road. The escapees range from a middle-aged journalist seeking high-altitude transcendence in the Himalayas to a frustrated poetry scholar in search of beauty among the holy spots of Iran. And then there's the global nomad torn between a longing for domestic tranquility and a masochistic impulse to throw himself into the world's ''messy heart.'' This summer's selection also includes authors driven by simple journalistic curiosity and academic inquiry, but it's the more tortured souls whose journeys resonate the most.
Restless professionally and disappointed romantically, Lisa Napoli, a journalist in her mid-40s, takes a temporary leave from her job as a public radio reporter in Los Angeles and relocates to Bhutan, a secluded and peaceful Himalayan kingdom that is just opening its doors to the outside world. ''I was tired of sleep-deprived, stressed-out, too-busy people who shirked downtime in the service of making money,'' she writes in RADIO SHANGRI-LA: What I Learned in the Happiest Kingdom on Earth (Crown, $25), her affectionate portrait of life in a slower-paced, high-altitude society. 
Napoli settles into an apartment in Thimphu, the sleepy capital, where she has signed on as an unpaid consultant to Kazoo FM, an English-language radio station established by the Bhutanese monarch as part of a drive to modernize his kingdom. There she encounters a tiny band of West-infatuated D.J.'s who organize Larry King-style call-in shows and Valentine's Day singing contests. She copes with the less-than-welcome attentions of a spoiled and materialistic Buddhist monk, has a near romance with a charismatic expat and tries, without success, to develop a liking for emadatse, the ''yak-cheesy, fiery-hot chili stew'' that locals consume three times a day.
Napoli inevitably falls under the spell of a country ''guided by intense spirituality'' yet seduced by the /accouterments of the modern world: A.T.M.'s, fast-food restaurants, nightclubs, the Internet. ''The most exciting experiences I had were with start-up ventures, companies where we made it all up as we went along,'' she observes in this absorbing, often touching memoir that unfolds on the eve of Bhutan's first democratic elections. ''In many ways, Bhutan was a start-up too -- an ancient, once-/secluded kingdom transitioning now at warp speed.''
In SAVED BY BEAUTY: Adventures of an American Romantic in Iran (Broadway, $24), Roger Housden, entering his 60s alone after a broken second marriage, decides to head for Tehran, eager to explore a country that has fascinated him since his days as a Persian poetry aficionado in 1970s London. A few months before pro-/democracy protests erupt against the Islamic regime, Housden visits some of the glory spots of Persian history and has a series of risky encounters with Iranian artists, filmmakers and writers who are ''living and working in an environment watered by the roots of a mythic past.''
Housden mostly skirts the country's repressive politics in favor of eloquent ruminations on its humanistic spirit and artistic excellence: the architectural splendor of the Royal Mosque in Isfahan; the rituals and gently tolerant outlook of the Sufis; the ruined Silk Road city of Nishapur, birthplace of the poet and scientist Omar Khayyam. In Tehran, Housden finds an artistic community energized both by opposition to the regime and by distance from materialistic distractions. ''He'd never felt at home in a consumer-capitalist culture,'' Housden observes of Behzad, founder of a popular art-and-culture Web site. ''What he had always felt the lack of in America, and what he so appreciated here, was the extended sense of community, the way individual identity was always wrapped into the broader culture.''
Ultimately, however, Housden can't avoid a collision with Iran's implacably anti-Western government: his book begins and ends with descriptions of his interrogation by thuggish security men who accuse him of working secretly for the Americans and threaten to toss him into the notorious Evin Prison. ''The darkness was a fact in my life now,'' the British expat writes of the terror he experiences before being permitted to a board a plane to freedom and his home in California. ''Now I knew for a certainty that I had no special pass -- that everything could be taken away from me at any moment.''
In THE SINNER'S GRAND TOUR: A Journey Through the Historical Underbelly of Europe (Broadway, paper, $15), the veteran travel writer Tony Perrottet sets off on a romp across England, France and Italy, searching for remnants of their bawdy past. ''Today, the entire continent is still littered with secret boudoirs, perverse relics and ancient dungeons, many of which, I was convinced, could be found,'' Perrottet explains before embarking on his summer-long research trip, accompanied by his wife and their two young sons. Perrottet drags his family to questionable holiday spots like West Wycombe, in Buckinghamshire, former site of what came to be known as the Hellfire Club, a converted medieval abbey that earned infamy in the 18th century as a ''private rumpus room for theatrical and carnal misbehavior.''
This X-rated version of ''National Lampoon's European Vacation'' soon segues into an amusing -- and surprisingly absorbing -- series of quests. In Paris, Perrottet searches for the long-lost fauteuil d'amour (the sex chair) of King Edward VII, used by the morbidly obese British monarch to facilitate his trysts with the city's prostitutes. In the Provencal village of Lacoste, Perrottet spends a week trying to arrange a meeting with Pierre Cardin and is rewarded with a peek inside the octogenarian fashion designer's villa, a medieval fortress once owned by the Marquis de Sade. In Rome, reports of a papal bathroom covered in pornographic frescoes by Raphael inspire various schemes to get inside the Holy See's W.C. Perrottet can be a bit too lighthearted about the misogynistic behavior of some of his subjects -- like an act of sexual extortion organized by the 18th-century Italian playboy Giacomo Casanova -- but as he tears away Europe's decorous historical facade he pays spirited homage to the rakes and reprobates who subscribed to Casanova's motto: ''I have devoted my life to the pursuit of pleasure.''
In THE DEAD YARD: A Story of Modern Jamaica /(Nation Books, paper, $16.99), Ian Thomson journeys from the shantytowns of Kingston to the resorts of Montego Bay as he tries to touch the soul of this lush Caribbean island. But almost five decades after Jamaica's independence from Great Britain, Thomson finds this troubled country still scarred by its leading role in the slave trade, mired in poverty and crime, and deeply divided between a tiny white elite and a large black /underclass.
Thomson hangs out with reggae musicians and meets the dying director of the classic Jimmy Cliff cinematic anthem ''The Harder They Come.'' He smokes weed with ganja-addled ''Reborn Christians'' and has a tense encounter with the Bobo Ashanti, a Rastafarian group that rejects reconciliation with whites and whose heroes include the murderous Ugandan dictator Idi Amin. Thomson finds himself recoiling from the Rastafarians' ''nasty streak of misogyny'' and ''the absolutism of its blood-and-brimstone visions.'' Among his less testy encounters is one with an expatriate vestige of Jamaica's colonial past, Blanche Blackwell, who befriended Ian Fleming and was supposedly a model for the ''Sapphic aeroplane pilot and martial arts expert, Pussy Galore'' in ''Goldfinger.''
Thomson's meandering narrative, with its seemingly unedited dialogue and sometimes awkward phrasing, can be difficult to wade through. Still, he paints a nuanced portrait of a country brimming with both creative and murderous impulses. ''A nation built on violence and morose vendettas today stands on shaky political and economic foundations,'' he writes. ''The Jamaican people . . . are stuck in a postcolonial malaise.''
In THE LUNATIC EXPRESS: Discovering the World . . . Via Its Most Dangerous Buses, Boats, Trains, and Planes (Broadway, $24.99), Carl Hoffman leaves his comfortable Beltway life and sets out on a round-the-world odyssey ''from the exits of the New Jersey Turnpike to the peaks of the Andes and the plateaus of Asia.'' It's a journey that countless travel writers have taken before him, but Hoffman adds a twist: he does the entire trip in steerage class. ''I wanted to travel around the world as most of the people in the world did,'' he explains, ''putting their lives at risk every time they took off on overcrowded and poorly maintained conveyances because that was all they could afford or there were no other options.''
The first leg of the journey sets the tone: a flight from Toronto to Havana aboard Cubana Airlines, a company with a ''fatal event rate'' almost 20 times higher than Southwest Airlines. Later, Hoffman embarks on marathon bus trips through the mountains of South America, the plains of India and the Taliban-infested back roads of Afghanistan. He books passage on squalid ferries through the Indonesian archipelago and rides packed trains in Mumbai.
Always on the move, Hoffman manages only to skim the surfaces of these complex societies. Yet he gathers insights into the fortitude of third-world travelers, his own competing yearnings for domestic stability and adventure, and the brutal economics of mass transportation in impoverished parts of the globe. ''The third world is all about tiny margins of profit,'' he writes after careering around in Kenya with the drivers of matatus -- private minibuses with appalling accident rates. ''Speed and maximum capacity are of the essence. Regulation, safety, comfort -- they cost money, and there is no money here.''
In ODESSA: Genius and Death in a City of Dreams (Norton, $27.95), Charles King charts the tumultuous history of the Black Sea port best known as the inspiration for Pushkin and the setting for Sergei Eisenstein's revolutionary masterpiece ''Battleship Potemkin.'' King, a professor of international affairs and government at Georgetown University, describes how the city came into being as the main port of Catherine the Great's province of New Russia and a bulwark against the Ottoman Empire, then grew to glory under the administrative genius of a Spanish nobleman, Jose Pascual Domingo de Ribas y Boyons, and a Russian aristocrat, Mikhail Semyonovich Vorontsov. By the 1840s, King writes, Odessa appeared to travelers as ''a dreamlike city rising out of nothing, a surprising blip on the blank horizon formed by steppe, sea and sky.'' But its commercial bustle, intellectual ferment and atmosphere of tolerance (it harbored one of Russia's largest Jewish populations) were accompanied by darker impulses. ''When things worked, Odessa nurtured intellectuals and artists whose talents lit up the world,'' King writes. ''When they didn't, the city's name became a byword for fanaticism, anti-Semitism and deadly /nationalism.''
King describes the 1905 pogroms in the Pale of Settlement that spilled over into Odessa, leaving nearly 300 of its Jewish citizens dead. The horror of that experience helped shape the ideology of the Zionist leader Vladimir Jabotinsky, an Odessa native who led the Haganah, a clandestine Jewish military organization in Palestine after World War I. Jabotinsky's ''right-wing, antisocialist, militaristic and uncompromising commitment to a Jewish homeland on both banks of the Jordan River'' prefigured the settler movement in modern-day Israel.
King's sprawling narrative loses focus at times, but it regains momentum with the occupation of Odessa by Nazi-allied Romanian forces during World War II -- and the destruction of the city's ancient Jewish community. (Forty-eight Jews were left in Odessa by the time the Red Army liberated the city in November 1944.) Today, King observes, much of that population has been reconstituted in Brooklyn's Little Odessa, while the original city has become ''a twilight town, sitting uneasy inside a new country and more comfortable marketing its distant past than presenting itself as a city of the future.''
When the British journalist Rachel Polonsky moves into an elegant apartment building on Romanov Lane in central Moscow, she discovers the still-intact library of a notorious former tenant, the murderous Bolshevik leader and onetime Soviet foreign minister Vyacheslav Molotov. ''I was raised to value books, but these decaying volumes were residues of a malign force, not yet expired,'' she observes at the beginning of MOLOTOV'S MAGIC LANTERN: Travels in Russian History (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $28). ''For decades, their owner had been the second-most-powerful man in Stalin's empire, . . . a man who collaborated diligently in the tyrant's crimes, condemning millions to cruel deaths.'' The discovery inspires Polonsky to make a journey across the former Soviet empire, tracing the lives of the novelists, scientists and doomed Communist apparatchiks whose works line /Molotov's shelves.
In the dacha colony of Mozzhinka, Polonsky ponders the disparate careers of the brothers Sergei and Nikolai Vavilov, estimable scientists who followed diametrically opposite paths, one to glory under the Soviet dictatorship, the other to death from starvation in Stalin's gulag. In Rostov-on-Don, she recounts the bizarre life of the Cossack leader turned Bolshevik insider Semyon Budyonny, whose brutality was chronicled by Isaac Babel in his classic 1923 collection of stories, ''Cavalry Army.''
Turning to her own apartment block -- ''the most prestigious residence for the Party elite outside the Kremlin'' -- she tells of Leon Trotsky's 1927 arrest in Apartment 62 by Stalin's secret police and a failed 1918 plot by Sidney Reilly, an Odessa-born Jew, and his mistress, the tenant in Apartment 85, to overthrow Lenin. (The plot was foiled, and Reilly, whose real name was Sigmund Rosenblum, was dispatched with a bullet to the head.)
Polonsky's writing can be overwrought, and her narrative sometimes loses its way in a thicket of detail, but the book comes to chilling life with her portrait of Molotov, once described by Winston Churchill as a man of ''outstanding ability and cold-blooded ruthlessness.'' An emotionless apparatchik, bibliophile and fanatical loyalist to Stalin who kept detailed lists of his victims, he personally signed the execution orders for 43,569 people between the summer of 1937 and the winter of 1938, at the height of the Great Terror. Molotov -- who, unlike many of Stalin's associates, lived to a ripe old age -- typically professed ignorance about the fates of the people whose deaths he ordained. ''Stalin's men,'' Polonsky explains, ''cultivated this kind of rejection of memory, of the concrete reality of the past.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: King Edward VII's fauteuil d'amour, from ''The Sinner's Grand Tour.'' (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF LOUIS SOUBRIER) (BR21) DRAWING (DRAWING BY FRANK VIVA) (BR20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); STARTUPS (86%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (76%); RELIGION (76%); POETRY (73%); BRITISH MONARCHS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); PUBLIC RADIO (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); FAST FOOD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HIMALAYAS (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) BHUTAN (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (85%); AFRICA (85%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



166 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE STREET CORNERS; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Plans for a Hospital Site Spark Tax Breaks Debate

BYLINE: By BRIDGET O'SHEA. 
boshea@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Situated in the heart of busy, prosperous Lincoln Park, the three-way intersection of Halsted Street and Lincoln and Fullerton Avenues seems engineered for a traffic jam.
Now the pending redevelopment of the landmark Children's Memorial Hospital site, likely to include a mixed-use development, has created a pile-up of opinion, with the viewpoints of neighbors, business owners and bystanders colliding with one another.
At one point, Children's Memorial Hospital was studying a special taxing district for the six-acre site it plans to vacate later this year, but now it is backing off that idea. 
Children's expects to name a developer by the end of July, and at that point the developer could still apply for a special tax increment financing district -- the sort originally created to help blighted communities get back on their feet.
The area hardly seems like the sort of down-on-its-luck neighborhood that needs a tax break to get development going. On a recent weekday afternoon, drivers jockeyed for position in lines of cars honking their way through fast-changing traffic lights. A homeless man limped from car to car asking drivers for spare change. DePaul University students sauntered through the crosswalks, and a few shoppers browsed at display windows.
Real estate prices have remained healthy. According to Zillow, a national source of housing data, the average value of a Lincoln Park home on May 1 was $337,800, compared with $174,500 for homes in the city over all. There are very few vacant storefronts.
''The TIF thing will be controversial,'' said Tony Milito, owner of Sunset Travel & Cruise, a travel agency directly across the street from Children's Memorial. Asked if redevelopment in one of the city's most desirable residential and commercial areas should qualify for tax breaks, Mr. Milito was matter-of-fact.
''I don't know if they have it coming,'' he said.
Some Lincoln Park residents have already lined up to oppose redevelopment plans for another former hospital site -- Lincoln Park Hospital -- a few blocks down the street from Children's Memorial. The project, which has been approved by the City Council, calls for a grocery store, medical and professional office space, and 152 residential units at Lincoln and Webster Avenues.
A TIF allows any increased tax revenue from redevelopment to finance neighborhood improvements instead of going to schools and other city services.
Mayor Richard M. Daley used the districts as a major economic development tool, and by 2009 there were 158 of them spread throughout Chicago, according to the Cook County Clerk's Web site. Mayor Rahm Emanuel has appointed a committee to recommend ways to improve the program, including criteria for measuring the success of TIF districts.
The Lincoln Park Chamber of Commerce and other TIF proponents say the additional tax revenue from a Children's Memorial district could be used to finance improvements to Lincoln Elementary School, open or green space and rehabilitation of buildings, among other projects.
Former Alderman Vi Daley (43rd Ward) supported the Lincoln Park Hospital plan, but Alderman Michele Smith, who was newly elected in an April runoff, said she opposed it because it would increase traffic congestion. Ms. Smith has proposed an ordinance to reinstate the zoning that has governed the site for 50 years.
Another former Lincoln Park alderman, Martin J. Oberman, has filed a suit to halt the development.
Regardless of the eventual tax status of the Children's Memorial site, the pending departure of the hospital is bound to change the complexion of the area. The hospital has been a key to the vibrancy of the six-corner intersection.
Mason Green, owner of the nearby Bourgeois Pig coffee shop, said many of his customers are hospital employees.
''I'm a little nervous about that,'' Mr. Green said.
But Mr. Green is apparently not frozen with fear. Anticipating, perhaps, the improvements that could come with redevelopment of the site, he is moving ahead with an expansion of his shop.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CHILDREN (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); CITIES (86%); MAYORS (84%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); APPROVALS (72%); HOME PRICES (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); RETAILERS (65%); HOMELESSNESS (51%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



167 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; SUMMER READING; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2643 words

HEADLINE: Gardening

BYLINE: By DOMINIQUE BROWNING. 
Dominique Browning, author of the memoir ''Slow Love,'' writes a column for the Environmental Defense Fund's Web site and blogs at SlowLoveLife.com.

 BODY:
The garden book jury has returned a verdict. You are either growing vegetables or you have become one. Attitude looms as large as artichokes. Unfortunately, the important book on how exactly to overhaul farms too big to fail has yet to be written -- mainly because the standard wisdom is that they are, by definition, beyond hope of sustainability. But with over 300 million people in the United States, and with the global population approaching seven billion, most people will continue to depend for their meals on staggeringly large-scale agriculture. What's to be done? 
A bumper crop of books about vegetable gardening claims that the answer is in our own backyards. Not one convinces me, but they all make a good case for the simple joy of growing things. The best is the breezy, cantankerous and funny GROW THE GOOD LIFE: Why a Vegetable Garden Will Make You Happy, Healthy, Wealthy, and Wise (Rodale, $24.99), by Michele Owens, a co-founder of the fabulous Garden Rant blog. Owens's warm, enthusiastic, bossy-boots tone will make you want to swipe your credit card in soil. First, though, let me get my own garden rant out of the way. Why must cheerleaders for backyard veggies repeat the canard that Michelle Obama's White House garden cost only $180? Just price the lumber, wire mesh, soil, mulch, amendments, pipes, spigots and seeds -- never mind the labor -- for a 1,100-square-foot plot. Was it the taxes that came to $180?
You won't necessarily get a fast return on your investment, but Owens's own home economics are sensible. Vegetable gardens, she reminds us, ''require less and less time, labor and money every year as the soil gets richer.'' She genially refuses to engage in the usual patter about how to water what plant, knowing most of us just point and shoot. And she makes short work of how-tos: ''First, take care of the . . . soil. Second, diversify to avoid disaster. Third, pay attention to timing. And fourth, be a little Zen.'' The only way to learn to garden is to do it.
Owens boldly stakes a claim for the moral superiority of the home grower. Why delicious food doesn't suffice as its own best argument, I don't know. ''Thanks to my garden,'' Owens declares, ''I can take a small stand against everything I find witless, lazy and ugly in our civilization.'' Which is a lot. The vegetable garden, it turns out, is a ripening political force: the best response to the energy crisis, the climate crisis, the obesity crisis, the family crisis and the financial crisis.
Most of the country's population lives in cities and suburbs, even if, as Owens says, suburbia is ''so 20th century. And it's over.'' Realistically, though, if home growing is to gain serious traction, it will happen in the suburbs. It's unlikely that any city will grow enough to feed its population, even though fantastic urban green roofs are defying tail-pipe emissions, rats and flaking lead. It will be no small irony if suburbia becomes the locavore's home of choice. And growing backyard veggies could be the answer to the crisis of disaffected suburban youth.
At the least, vegetable gardening is a healthy trend. But Owens has a vision of saving the world with ''a billion sustainable backyard gardens and small farms.'' As with knitting a sweater, one row is meaningless; 90 don't add up to much; but eventually you get something useful. Hers is a slow revolution, but one about which it could cheerfully be said that the end justifies the means. On a macro level, I'm not persuaded that small farms can feed everyone, but I'll take homegrown micro greens any day.
Sarah Hayden Reichard has written a modest and unassuming but powerful book, THE CONSCIENTIOUS GARDENER: Cultivating a Garden Ethic (University of California Press, $27.50), arguing that gardeners should be on the front line when it comes to recognizing the interconnection of mankind and nature. ''Practices and products,'' she writes, have crept into the craft of gardening ''that decrease its long-term sustainability.'' I, for one, will never again resort to pesticides or peat moss after reading her book. Reichard's chapter on soil, ''the skin of the earth,'' is an excellent refresher for any gardener. There are 20,000 identified types of soil in the United States alone. Dirt may even be the new Prozac. Both Reichard and Owens mention that working the soil might alleviate depression: a specific soil bacterium has been found to activate serotonin-releasing neurons. Which would, at the very least, explain why more gardeners don't throw down their shovels and quit.
The chicest -- and I use the term advisedly -- book of the season is the lavish BEEKEEPER'S BIBLE: Bees, Honey, Recipes and Other Home Uses (Stewart, Tabori & Chang, $35). Beekeeping has new cachet as a status indicator among the moneyed classes. Luckily, it's an exemplary activity for anyone to do -- or read about.
Thick as a family Bible, this team effort by Richard A. Jones and Sharon Sweeney-Lynch reads like a textbook, lacking the buzz of authorial personality. Still, it's hard to go wrong with such a remarkable subject. The Bushmen of southern Africa believed the first human was born when a bee planted a seed in a mantis's body. In Roman times, secret love letters were carved into wax tablets, from which the incriminating evidence could be easily removed. Jones and Sweeney-Lynch explain the science and society of bees in clear, accessible language. And the recipes are admirably useful: honey scones, honey soap, honey hangover cures. ''Oh, stuff and fluff,'' as Pooh might say. Dip a paw into this richly satisfying volume and you won't have to do stoutness exercises.
If your backyard dream of delicious eggplants becomes a nightmare of bolting lettuce, take shelter in the woods with a copy of an extraordinarily handsome volume, THE BOOK OF FUNGI: A Life-Size Guide to Six Hundred Species From Around the World (University of Chicago Press, $55), by Peter Roberts and Shelley Evans. Most fungi are saprotrophs, eaters of dead matter, and ''without decay,'' Roberts and Evans remind us, ''our whole terrestrial ecosystem would swiftly grind to a halt.'' Talk about a claim on moral superiority. And if you need one more thing to worry about, consider our dangerous destruction of fungi habitats.
Being nearsighted and absent-minded, I have no intention of gnawing on mysterious growths I find in the ground, particularly now that I've read about the rapid liver failure brought on by the fatal dapperling (officially known as Lepiota subincarnata). But I lost myself for hours wandering through pages of stunning illustrations of puffballs and earthstars, bird's nests and stinkhorns, cramp balls and willow gloves. I defy you to resist the flaming parasol, whose cap and stem turn bright scarlet when bruised in a greedy clutch. Before I knew it, I found myself planted in front of the mushroom stand at the farmers' market.
Many of us think the best thing to come out of the ground in a long time is biofuel. We like to drive around and admire the results of someone else's backbreaking labor. Having made the morally neutral decision to leave vegetable growing to the farmers, we can meet them halfway, at the market. The number of small farms (fewer than 50 acres) is growing, and they can use our support. Christine Chitnis has come to the rescue with a charming, useful, pocket-size guidebook, MARKETS OF NEW ENGLAND (The Little Bookroom, paper, $15.95). It should be a model for other regional guides since it covers food as well as its kissing cousin, crafts. Chitnis makes a heartfelt case for using ''our collective consumer power to support artisans -- beekeepers, cheesemongers, weavers and woodworkers.'' I couldn't agree more.
For centuries now, gardens have given people good excuses to leave home. The most esoteric of this season's books are the hefty, alluring volumes (eventually six in all) of a 17th-century naturalist's extraordinary masterwork, THE AMBONESE HERBAL (Yale University Press, $85 per volume). Georgius Everhardus Rumphius's life work -- he traveled and collected for five decades -- is a botanical treasure trove of Indonesian plants. Reading it, one enters a mysterious world all its own.
''The Ambonese Herbal'' was translated and interpreted by Prof. E. M. Beekman, an authority on colonial and Dutch language and literature who also drew on the help of colleagues for the Chinese, Hebrew and Latin passages. Both he and Rumphius seem to have been fascinating characters, their lives marked by tragedy. Neither Beekman nor Rumphius lived long enough to share their labors with the public. Rumphius described the cultivation of cloves and cinnamon in such detail that the Dutch East India Company, protecting its trade secrets, forbade publication of the ''Herbal.'' Beekman died in 2008, just after completing his translation of its final volume.
Granted, ''The Ambonese Herbal,'' with its lovely plates and dense descriptions, is for the serious collector's library. Nonetheless, it's full of fascinating social and medicinal lore, a legacy of a vanished time. The Kings of Macassar, it tells us in Volume II, ''often experimented on criminals'' to find antidotes to the poison of the dart tree. The dammar batu tree provided wood that ignited easily, but ''the burning drops that fall like stars from these torches'' caused severe ulcerations when they landed on someone's skin, ''which often happens to slaves who carry them.''
Today's liveliest garden travel book was originally published in three volumes in 1894. The journals of the coolly intrepid Marianne North, ''Recollections of a Happy Life,'' have now been excerpted for a new edition, ABUNDANT BEAUTY: The Adventurous Travels of Marianne North, Botanical Artist (Greystone, paper, $19.95), with an introduction by Laura Ponsonby. ''Abundant Beauty'' describes this British woman's painting expeditions to Brazil, California, Japan, India, Australia and South Africa. North was an unusually independent Victorian lady. As she herself declared, she was ''a very wild bird.'' Edward Lear, George Eliot and Charles Darwin were among her friends and admirers.
North's writing style is as vivid and dramatic as her paintings (none of which, sadly, are reproduced in this volume). She had a flair for rendering unforgettable detail in a few quick strokes -- the little girl in Brazil ''quite covered with crawling and scratching marmosets''; the snail ''as large as a French roll,'' moving in a ''very dignified'' fashion. In Darjeeling, India, North encountered some vapid compatriots: ''those unthinking, croqueting-badminton young ladies always aggravated me, and I could hardly be civil to them.'' The gallery of her work at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, should go to the top of every gardener's must-see list.
If a butterfly can change the course of history with a mere flap of its wings, surely a case for greatness can be made for the humble onion. In FIFTY PLANTS THAT CHANGED THE COURSE OF HISTORY (Firefly, $29.95), Bill Laws might be stretching things, but why quibble? Plants, no matter how seemingly mundane, are endlessly enthralling. Tea, for instance, was said to have originated when the founder of Zen Buddhism became so frustrated by his tendency to doze during meditation that he tore off his eyelids, ''casting the offending body parts onto the floor, where they were transformed into the eye-shaped leaves of the tea plant.'' But you knew that. And as for our theme for spring, moral superiority, chalk up another point for homegrown veggies. During World War II, Laws writes, the British Agricultural Ministry published a guidebook encouraging the use of glass bell jars to extend the growing season. It was called ''Cloches v. Hitler.''
Now back down to earth. Page Dickey is the author of six previous garden books, including one called ''Duck Hill Journal,'' written 20 years ago, about her three-acre garden in upstate New York. Change has come with the passage of time -- divorce, remarriage, grandchildren and aching bones. /EMBROIDERED GROUND: Revisiting the Garden (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26) is another tour of what sounds like a well-loved and highly demanding homestead.
Dickey never rants. She writes in genteel, refined tones -- in part because many writers make gardening seem so arduous ''that we can discourage people from doing it at all.'' But what she actually does is cast a spell. There's a soothing, fairy-tale quality to this place where an extraordinarily helpful and generous new husband called Bosco builds himself a little house of his own, nestled near that of his wife, because he finds the ceilings too low and the walls too crowded in her domain. Dogs snooze, chickens cluck. Dickey leaves posies by Bosco's favorite chair; he putters in his greenhouse.
The advantage of aging, Dickey says, is in paring down, simplifying with shrubs and evergreens; to this end, she offers many useful suggestions. But she isn't quite ready to give up on her perennial borders. When she mentioned in passing that she is 70 and Bosco is 76, I sank into the depths of my fainting couch. ''Embroidered Ground'' is a sweet, tender love story about how gardens and gardeners age and adapt, each to the other.
In TOMORROW'S GARDEN: Design and Inspiration for a New Age of Sustainable Gardening (Rodale, $24.99), Stephen Orr writes gracefully about the mellowing of his own design sensibilities. Orr, with whom I once worked at House & Garden magazine, has traveled the country in search of gardens that yoke environmental sensitivity to aesthetic pleasures. Gardeners, he argues, must start considering ''sustainability in water usage, plant choices, local ecology and preservation of resources.'' But, wisely, he resists a didactic tone, concentrating instead on describing small plots whose modest beauties speak volumes. There are intriguing designs here for any gardener.
Orr's excellent book is also a hymn to resourcefulness. A beekeeper in Chicago tends dozens of hives at an abandoned parking lot. A young woman plants sunflowers along the curbs in the neighborhood surrounding Brooklyn's Gowanus Canal, an E.P.A. Superfund cleanup site, and strangers leave her thank-you notes. Other green pioneers take over acres of lawn in Chicago's parkland to plant community vegetable gardens. And the best idea to come along in years is yard-sharing, which Orr describes in an enthusiastic visit to Portland, Ore.
The most soulful garden book -- also out of Oregon, a testament to more good things emerging from all that rain -- is Marjorie Sandor's memoir THE LATE /INTERIORS: A Life Under Construction (Arcade, $22.95). This book covers her passage into middle age, as she falls in love with a colleague, leaves her husband, shares custody of a daughter through adolescence, buys and renovates a house, fights off a ravaging real estate development and packs up the contents of her aging mother's beach house. In his mid-40s, her lover undergoes terrifying emergency double bypass surgery. Sandor sits in the hospital and listens to the suction machine, ''oddly comforting, a little like the small stone fountain at home.''
Through it all, she gardens -- and proffers nimble meditations on healing, friendship, literature, architecture and music. The faded green of old wallpaper brings to mind ''the sharp intense odor of the arroyos'' of her Los Angeles childhood, and with it, a smell ''that makes me almost dizzy with longing, . . . geosmin, literally earth smell.'' Her gardening mirrors her writing habits: ''I putter, make little gestures in a disorganized way, . . . and eventually . . . something appears.'' You won't find design advice or planting tips in ''The Late Interiors.'' What you will find is a simple answer to the question, Why bother? Over the centuries, around the world, we have always come home to one truth: Gardening sustains life, love and happiness.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Red kangaroo paws from ''Tomorrow's Garden.''
 From ''The Book of Fungi.'' (BR15) DRAWING (DRAWING BY FRANK VIVA) (BR14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (92%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); OBESITY (68%); SUBURBS (60%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



168 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION LONG ISLAND; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: A Welcome Mat for Builders

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

 BODY:
IN November 2007, a few months after Pat Meyersfield retired from the Great Neck school system, she and her husband, Sanford, drove through the North Fork visiting wineries, farm stands and model homes that in those days were popping up like clover in the midst of farm fields.
On their way home, they spent $535,000 on a model house at the Estates at Olde Vine, a golf club community in Riverhead. The one they chose, the Arrowhead, is a kind of postmodern ranch with three bedrooms and two baths. 
Devoid of plantings or trees, the setting looked raw. Designed with front and back porches, the ranch was set on the 11th hole of the 18-hole Olde Vine Golf Course. The community also included a vineyard, a heated pool, tennis courts and a clubhouse. Though they weren't then golfers, equity in the club was included in the sales price. The house, initially intended as a weekend getaway, was bought on ''just a whim,'' Ms. Meyersfield said.
But as with many empty nesters, their weekends turned into longer stays. This March, after they sold their five-bedroom Great Neck Tudor for $1.3 million, Olde Vine became their primary residence. ''We love the peacefulness,'' Ms. Meyersfield said. ''It was like finding heaven.''
Their neighbors, including downsizers and second-home owners from Nassau County, Manhattan and New Jersey, were friendly. The community was sociable, and the golf course views from the back porch were sublime. But thanks to the recession, the place has remained far from full in the three years since they bought in. The two lots next door have remained unsold. Ms. Meyersfield, calling them an ''eyesore,'' has asked her gardener to keep them mowed.
Three years being a long time for a 75-lot subdivision to languish with 22 vacant lots, the developers have lately concocted a piecemeal approach to solving the problem. Bill Nolan, the chief financial officer of the Medford-based NF Development and Heinlein Capital Ventures, described the idea as ''opening it up to other builders with some design control,'' so that an individual lot, including a club membership, could be bought for $180,000, and then built ''down the road.''
At this point, the tactic has drummed up interest, and backing: one house is under construction and two ''spec'' houses are being built. (Additionally, three model houses rented during the downturn are on the market.)
Nick Zoumas, an owner of Almas Construction in Wading River, bought in, with a five-lot purchase. ''We would love to build them out,'' he said. He is hoping for custom jobs but working with architects on designs for spec houses.
Meanwhile, Mr. Nolan said, the property is maintained, and ''the golf course takes away the stigma'' of being partially empty, with the undeveloped lots backing up to the grasses buffering the greenways. Sale prices range from $479,000, for a two-bedroom house, to $629,000 for three or four bedrooms.
Peter and Sheryl Schwartz, who sell homes for Prudential Douglas Elliman, live in a three-bedroom ranch at Olde Vine and share the listings for 11 lots. They complimented the developers for having ''staying power'' and not lowering the prices or ''giving the store away.''
Farther east, another almost-new subdivision where several developers have been looking for a ''shovel-ready opportunity'' -- this one with beach access -- is the 30-acre Fields at Mattituck, said Scott Stay, the asset manager for its developer, the Winhaven Group of Manhattan. ''The market was very different,'' and size and amenities were in ''high demand,'' between 2007 and 2009 when the three Hamptons shingle-style 5,200- to 7,000-square-foot model houses went up in the $1.5 million-to-$2 million range, he said.
For more than two years the subdivision remained dormant. Then, last fall, the developer cleared out the rest of the lots, delineated 23 one- to two-acre home sites and installed mailboxes. Among those lured out by these actions were several builders ''looking for a place to build homes.'' And one of the models was subsequently sold.
Pointing out that his property already had difficult-to-obtain zoning approval, he expressed the hope that a ''high-level national builder'' would buy the remaining lots and complete the luxury community.
''We don't want just tract homes,'' Mr. Stay said. ''At the end of the day, our name will be on it.''
George Heinlein, the president of Heinlein Capital Ventures, said that when he started building on the 120-acre Olde Vine site about eight years ago, he expected to be done in 2006.
''It's about carrying costs,'' he said. ''If builders have their own clientele and can bring that clientele to our project and we can achieve our price structure, it works out.''
Recently Mr. Heinlein introduced a smaller, two-bedroom model to attract retirees. He partnered with two other builders ''to bring houses on line'' while staying ''within the parameters of what has already been built.'' The price of the land ''guides you to the fact that you have to build a quality home.''
Cecile Wren, the president of the Olde Vine Civic Association, says that like the developer, the residents want the lots to be sold. But until that happens, ''we would like the empty lots to be sodded, because it would be more beautiful.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: UNDEVELOPED: A building lot -- note the sunken rectangle in the lawn -- abuts a sold house at the Estates at Olde Vine, a golf community in Riverhead where sales have been slow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); WINERIES (72%); TENNIS (69%); SPORTS (69%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); EMPTY NESTERS (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



169 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2909 words

HEADLINE: White Nights in St. Petersburg

BYLINE: By JOSHUA HAMMER. 
JOSHUA HAMMER, a freelance foreign correspondent based in Berlin, is a frequent contributor to the Travel section.

 BODY:
THE motorized launch cruised toward the Hermitage, the former Winter Palace of the czars, passing underneath a low arched bridge that I feared would graze my scalp as we glided beneath it. Just ahead, a boisterous wedding party on the deck of a wooden cruiser filled the air with vodka-fueled shouts of ''gorko!,'' meaning bitterness, a traditional Russian encouragement to the bride and groom to kiss and thus provide the guests with the opposite of what was being proclaimed.
Then the canal spilled into the vast Neva River, and all of St. Petersburg spread before us. Pink, peach and violet clouds streaked the horizon. Across the river, on Zayachy Island -- one of a multitude of small islands in the Neva that fall within St. Petersburg's metropolitan limits -- stood SS. Peter and Paul Cathedral, burial place of Peter the Great, the three Alexanders and, most recently, the executed Czar Nicholas, Czarina Alexandra and their children. The golden-spired cathedral glinted in the fading sun. I breathed in the maritime air -- a pungent mix of gasoline and ripe river smells -- and checked my watch. It was 11 p.m., and the sky was still as bright as that of an early summer evening in New York. 
In St. Petersburg, the grand city of the czars, they call them the ''White Nights'': those 80 or so evenings, running from May to the end of July, when the city emerges from long months of cold and darkness and celebrates the brief return of nearly round-the-clock daylight. Residents of Russia's cultural capital -- situated a few latitudinal lines south of the Arctic Circle, at the eastern end of the Gulf of Finland -- have been welcoming the summer with relief and celebration ever since Peter the Great founded the city in the early 18th century. (The czar named the new capital after his patron saint, St. Peter the apostle.)
For most of the 20th century, however, these celebrations were muted by wars, revolution and the grim imperatives of the Soviet state. The Russian Revolution broke out here in October 1917, when the city was called Petrograd. Only a few decades later, between 1941 and 1944, as many as 800,000 people died of hunger, disease and exposure during the nearly 900-day Nazi siege of the city that the Bolsheviks had renamed Leningrad. Under Joseph Stalin and his Communist successors, White Nights were disciplined affairs, limited to a smattering of classical music concerts. Even after the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union, St. Petersburg's summer remained subdued: the economy had deteriorated so sharply after decades of misrule that many people became dependent on food rationing. For a time, St. Petersburg, which regained its original name in 1991, was even forced to accept humanitarian food aid from foreign donors -- hardly the economic environment in which to stage all-night, citywide revelries.
During the last decade, however, Russia's booming economy has rejuvenated St. Petersburg, and the White Nights have become more and more lively. Russian entrepreneurs have poured money into new bars, restaurants and hotels. Growing numbers of visitors from abroad, along with well-heeled Russian tourists -- their wallets fat with petrodollars -- and members of the increasingly mobile Russian middle class head here for summer vacations. The city fathers have seized the initiative, pumping city and state financing into organized events.
Long summer days exist elsewhere in Russia of course, from Moscow to Yekaterinburg to Yakutsk, but the White Nights have become an intrinsic part of St. Petersburg's identity -- a celebration of the city's unique beauty and its role as the country's artistic epicenter.
No other city in Russia enjoys such a breathtaking location. St. Petersburg was constructed on what originally were more than 100 islands formed by a latticework of rivers, creeks, streams and natural canals that flow into the Baltic Sea at the mouth of the Neva River. The Neva, the main artery through the city, snakes an east-west path across St. Petersburg, basically dividing it in half. The southern half, the part most reminiscent of Venice or Amsterdam, is cut by a grid of canals and includes many of the city's most familiar landmarks. Among them: the Hermitage, Russia's greatest museum and the former Winter Palace of the czars, along with Palace Square and the Alexander Column; the Kazan Cathedral, modeled after St. Peter's at the Vatican; and the Church of the Savior on the Spilled Blood, a monument marking the spot of Czar Alexander II's assassination in 1881. Here, too, runs the Nevsky Prospekt, the city's main commercial street.
ACROSS the river, the northern part of St. Petersburg consists of a cluster of islands, including Vasilyevsky, Petrogradsky, Dekabristov and Krestovsky. Four drawbridges across the Neva connect the northern and southern parts of the city, while 342 smaller bridges, built over four centuries and made of materials ranging from wood to brick to iron, cross the city's canals and tributaries.
You'll find celebrations of St. Petersburg's White Nights in virtually every corner of this sprawling, watery metropolis. Dance clubs and ''beach clubs'' -- including the most exclusive, the Royal Beach Club on Krestovsky Island, a forested park that draws many of the city's affluent young people -- stay open until at least 6 a.m. on White Nights weekends. Throughout the night, the Nevsky Prospekt teems with revelers. There is a profusion of cultural events, from the daylong Dostoevsky festival on July 3 -- a round-the-clock celebration of the local author whom many consider to be Russia's greatest novelist -- to the White Nights Festival, a combination of classical music, opera and ballet performances held from May through the end of July. The ''Scarlet Sails,'' a city wide high-school graduation party dating back to the end of World War II, takes place at the end of June, and draws revelers of all ages. The celebration includes an hourlong fireworks display over the Neva and the passage down the river of a graceful three-masted schooner modeled after one used by the imperial family in the late 19th century. And that doesn't even include the variety of street theater, jam sessions and gatherings along the banks of the Neva just before 2 a.m. every day to watch the four main drawbridges, all illuminated, rise to a 90-degree angle to allow barges and other big vessels to pass. This happens throughout the year, of course, but the warm weather and the still-bright skies give the White Nights spectacle an especially celebratory feeling. ''When you've got only 80 days of sunlight, you've got to make the most of them,'' I was told by Sergei Bobovnikov, a dealer in Soviet-era antiques and propaganda art who was born in Kursk, a city near Moscow, but moved to St. Petersburg to attend college three decades ago.
Mr. Bobovnikov keeps two apartments in St. Petersburg: one on the island of Petrogradskaya Storona, the other across the Neva, one block off the Nevsky Prospekt. This means that, unlike many other revelers stranded on the wrong side of the river after the drawbridges rise, he is always guaranteed a place to sleep. (Mr. Bobovnikov rented me and my traveling companion his Petrogradskaya Storona apartment for the duration of our weekend stay.)
Daytime during the White Nights is usually devoted to sleeping late to recover from the long night before -- perhaps mixed in with some sightseeing -- or sipping cappuccinos at the cafes that line the Nevsky Prospekt and some of its side streets. My own exploration of St. Petersburg's White Nights began on a Saturday evening in early July last year, a couple of weeks past the summer equinox. I was joined by Anna Nemtsova, a Moscow-based Newsweek correspondent and White Nights devotee who had lived for many years in St. Petersburg. Over the last several years, the White Nights have become a hugely popular draw for Russian tourists from as far away as eastern Siberia, she told me. But the largest representation of visitors comes from Moscow. ''More and more Muscovites are making the weekend commute to St. Petersburg during the summer,'' said Anna, who had arrived to meet me via a new high-speed train, which covers the route in four hours and charges 3,000 rubles (about $110, at about 27.6 rubles to the dollar).
ANNA and I made our way by taxi to the city center for an early evening meal -- and free vodka shots -- at the Idiot, one of St. Petersburg's more popular bar-restaurants. This five-room basement establishment, located off St. Isaac Square and alongside the Moika Canal, one of the Neva's many tributaries, reflects a new, nostalgic fascination for Russia at the turn of the 20th century. The Idiot was designed to resemble a Dostoevsky-era apartment: old oak furniture, Singer iron-pedaled sewing machines, clunky typewriters, shelves of antique books and the occasional, anachronistic bust of Lenin. We were joined by Mireille Massip, a French author who was in town to attend, among other events, a big White Nights gathering of returned St. Petersburg nobility.
Hundreds of White Russians -- descendants of both the pre-revolutionary aristocrats and the anti-Bolshevik military officers who fled to Western Europe and the United States during the consolidation of Bolshevik power in 1919 and 1920 -- have returned to the city since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Some have taken up residence in the same apartments their families lived in in czarist Russia. Over a bowl of borscht and a glass of Chablis, Ms. Massip, who had recently finished a biography of a White Russian exile in America, told us that she returns to St. Petersburg ''every second year,'' always during the summer.
Tipsy after our round of vodka shots, Anna and I left the Idiot and commenced a White Nights ritual: the downtown walkabout through the area around the Moika. This original part of the city began to take shape in the early 18th century, when Peter, who was enamored of Dutch culture, laid out a grid of intersecting canals that flow into the Neva and hired Western Europe's most celebrated architects to line them with palaces and cathedrals. Peter died in 1725, and the capital that he founded rapidly expanded. In 1728, Peter II moved his seat back to Moscow. But four years later, the Empress Anna again made St. Petersburg the capital of the Russian Empire. It remained the seat of the Romanov Dynasty for nearly two centuries, until the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917.
We turned left along the Moika and crossed a short span nicknamed the Drunk Bridge, a rickety iron crossing from which assassins threw the still-living Rasputin -- the faith healer to Nicholas and Alexandra -- into the river in 1916. Along the nearby Nevsky Prospect, the new multi-ethnic Russia -- sushi bars, Middle Eastern shisha bars, Chinese tea rooms -- was drawing a crowd of customers from around the globe. We found our way to Rubinstein Street, a trendy boulevard that has exploded in recent years with curio shops, theaters and ethnic restaurants.
Here, at a newly opened Georgian restaurant, we discreetly fortified ourselves for the night ahead with a bottle of sweetish red Georgian wine, officially illicit, because Georgian wine imports had been banned by the Russian authorities since before the 2008 war in the south Caucasus, in which hundreds of soldiers and civilians died. It was still too early for most Russians to sit down to dinner, and we were the only guests in the spartan place. The owner and her daughter tended to us solicitously, as traditional Georgian folk music played in the background. They served up a nonstop procession of heavy, exotic dishes: lobio, a thick red bean soup; piles of meat-filled dumplings, known as khinkali; a cheese and herb bread called khachapuri tarkhunit; and spicy meatballs called abkhazura.
It was around 11 p.m. by the time we left the restaurant and headed back toward the Neva. The sky was streaked with fiery wisps of cloud. We walked through the eerily deserted Palace Square to a plaza beside the river, facing Vasilyevsky Island, site of the Italianate-style Kunst Chamber, an ethnography museum that includes Peter the Great's bizarre collection of deformed embryos preserved in formaldehyde. Hundreds of people had gathered in the plaza, one of the most popular vantage points to watch the raising and lowering of the four drawbridges. All eyes were focused on a juggling team that tossed flaming sticks in the air, their acrobatics accompanied by the rhythmic beating of tom-toms played by musicians clad in billowy Ali Baba pants. The look, Anna explained, was inspired by the traditions of the Indian state of Goa, an increasingly popular destination for young Russians on holiday.
THE Neva itself was abuzz with activity: People took in the view sitting on the stone steps that ran down to the river, splashed from time to time by wakes from a constant stream of sightseeing vessels. The pleasure-boat owners have been among the biggest beneficiaries of the White Nights' popularity. For 4,000 rubles, visitors can enjoy -- as I did the following evening -- an hourlong private cruise, sipping wine and gazing at sites like the landmark Mariinsky Theater on the Kryukov canal. ''The number of boats on the river has quadrupled in the last couple of years,'' Mr. Bobovnikov, the antiques dealer, told me. It's a short season, however: throughout St. Petersburg's seven-month winter, both the Neva and its tributaries are covered by a solid sheet of ice, and the waterways often don't thaw entirely until the beginning of April.
The energetic scene on the plaza -- illuminated bridges, teeming crowds, stands selling ice cream and American-style hot dogs, the pungent smell of diesel fuel, the hypnotic drumbeating, riverboats fighting for space on the wide Neva -- reminded me a bit of the scene alongside the Nile in Cairo, with a similar sense of energy and controlled chaos.
As 2 a.m. approached, Anna and I crossed the Palace Bridge and the Stroiteley Bridge to Petrogradskaya Storona, on the northeast side of the city, across the Neva River. We found a large riverboat restaurant called the Flying Dutchman, its wooden-plank deck providing a panoramic view of all four main spans. The sky was darkening, and a huge, butterscotch half-moon loomed just above the Hermitage.
Then, as we sat on a couch on the restaurant deck in the gathering dusk, sharing a shisha and drinking vodka tonics, the Troitsky Bridge beside the museum began its slow ascent. It rose to a 90-degree angle above the Neva, and then, one by one, at 15-minute intervals, each of the three other spans followed. The graceful upward movement of the bridges, each following another with what seemed like perfect synchronicity, the sense of anticipation that suffused the crowds, the interplay of lights and water, all conveyed a magical effect.
Traffic ground to a halt, people gaped from promenades along the river, and then the first of what would be many barges, coming from the Gulf of Finland, swept into view. In near darkness now, Anna and I sipped our drinks and savored the scene -- the moment when all of St. Petersburg seemed to stop and enjoy a brief respite from the endless whirl of its summer nights.
MIDNIGHT OIL NOT NECESSARY
WHAT TO DO
''The Stars of the White Nights 2011'' International Ballet and Opera Festival runs through July 24 and consists of a huge variety of musical events open to the public. Many events take place at the Mariinsky (Kirov) Ballet and Opera Theater, but there are operas, ballets and concerts at performance halls all over St. Petersburg. For the full schedule, check balletandopera.com.
WHERE TO STAY
The Grand Hotel Europe (Nevsky Prospekt, Mikhailovskaya Ulitsa 1/7; 7-812-329-6000; www.grandhoteleurope.com) is widely considered the best place to stay in St. Petersburg. The luxurious, 130-year-old establishment with an ornate facade and a prime location has played host to a procession of European monarchs as well as to many great men and women of culture, including Tchaikovsky and Pavarotti. Rates for a standard double start at 15,300 rubles, or about $557 at 27.6 rubles to the dollar.
The Hotel Astoria (39 Bolshaya Morskaya;7-812-494-5757; www.thehotelastoria.com) makes a fine second choice. Owned by Sir Rocco Forte, it has grand, old-Russian style interiors and another excellent location on St. Isaac's Square in the heart of the city, a few blocks from the Hermitage. The 210 rooms and 42 suites at Hotel Astoria start at 20,000 rubles.
WHERE TO EAT
The Idiot (82 Moika Canal; 7-812-315-1675), popular among both expats and St. Petersburg's artist crowd, consists of four rooms crammed with antique furniture, oil paintings, chess and backgammon sets, English-language books and assorted Russian bric-a-brac. The menu features excellent Russian and vegetarian cuisine.
Khutor Vodogray (Ul. Karavannaya 2; 7-812-570-5737) is a handsome restaurant with whitewashed walls and dark beams suggesting a Ukrainian cottage. Ukrainian delicacies include homemade sausages, and black bread with salo, a traditional dish made from salt-cured pig fat.
Probka/Il Grappolo (Ul. belinskogo 5; 7-812-273-4904; www.probka.org) is a modern wine bar and restaurant offering memorable views of the Church of St. Simeon and St. Anna through its large picture windows. The wine list includes top-flight reds and whites from a dozen countries, and the menu features Italian and European food. Recommended are the pizzas topped with rucola.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The sky remains bright after midnight as a crewman leans from a boat on the Fontanka Canal, heading toward the Neva River, on one of St. Petersburg's White Nights. (TR1)
With the sun finally down by 1:30 a.m., waiting to watch a bridge open on the Neva. (TR6)
ABOVE: Around 2 a.m. during White Nights, drawbridges, including the Dvortsovy, open to let big vessels pass. ABOVE RIGHT: At 10 p.m., enjoying the long twilighhts on a river beach across from the Hermitage. LEFT FROM TOP: Newlyweds at 11:40 p.m. and remains of a wedding party by the river, a traditional place for newlyweds to celebrate their marriage. (TR6-TR7)
 ABOVE: A 12:30 a.m. drink at a cafe by the Moika Canal. TOP: Street performers pass by the Kazan Cathedral. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR7) MAPS (TR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (64%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (78%); FINLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



170 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1838 words

HEADLINE: Looking for a Plan B? Make It Gluten-Free

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

 BODY:
IF Helene Godin had decided to rethink her life at a different time, a bed and breakfast might have been her chosen fate. Or perhaps a little independent bookstore with a marmalade cat, good coffee and some comfortable armchairs.
But this being the second decade of the 21st century, Ms. Godin chose a different course after she quit her job as a Manhattan lawyer, resolved to temper her workaholic ways, and set out on a second career. She opened a gluten-free bakery. 
So did Edie and Dan Irwin in Los Angeles after their graphic-design business faltered in the recession. (Their specialty is artisanal gluten-free bread.) And Christine Reed in Ashford, Conn., when she concluded that working as a buyer for a manufacturing company did not fulfill her soul. And Michelle Gillette in Bayport, on Long Island, when she gave up teaching high school Spanish. (The grand opening of her gluten-free bakery and cafe, called Ms. Michelle's Urban Gourmet, took place on Memorial Day weekend.)As long as there have been jobs, there have been fantasies about leaving them. Often this involves escapes to pretty settings (the proverbial bed and breakfast in Vermont), or fitness nirvana (ski instructor), and, if not financial reward, at least no irritating co-workers or domineering bosses (in fact, usually no bosses at all).
Some fantasies run their course; owning a little country newspaper, a common daydream of past generations of journalists, has all the allure of a migraine these days. But into the vacuum usually come other ideas more illustrative of a particular moment. And so it is today that we find the growing appeal of gluten-free, not just as a dietary regimen but as a professional Plan B.
Who even heard of gluten (or the lack thereof) a decade ago? The estimated 1.3 percent of the population who had celiac disease, which is basically an inability to digest gluten, did, but the general public awareness was minimal.
Now, many more people know that gluten is a protein contained in wheat, rye and barley, and it has a crucial elastic quality that holds together the ingredients of breads, cakes, cookies, pasta and most any other baked good you care to name. Those who are allergic to gluten, or who simply have a hard time digesting it, can't eat many desserts or dietary staples like pizza or sandwiches.
Even those who can eat all the gluten they want increasingly have some vague idea that it's healthier not to. Certainly many weekend athletes took notice recently when the tennis star Novak Djokovic partly attributed his stunning 40-plus-match winning streak to his gluten-free diet.
So naturally, gluten-free has become a growing business concept. The Gluten Free Registry (glutenfreeregistry.com), a database, now lists more than 19,000 ''gluten-free friendly'' establishments around the world. The Chicago Tribune named ''gluten free'' one of its top 10 buzzwords a few years ago. Ms. Reed's gluten-free vegan bakery, called Shayna B's & the Pickle (after her two dogs), got a big contract last month when it was hired to supply the Wesleyan University graduation with 1,300 gluten-free blondies, biscottis and chocolate chip cookies.
Helene Godin didn't think or care about gluten -- or baking, for that matter -- when she was catching the 7:01 train to New York City every morning. In a 22-year career as a media and intellectual property lawyer, she had held some big, wonderful jobs -- including positions at NBC, Reader's Digest and Bloomberg.
She loved it. But, acknowledging her workaholic inclinations she said, ''I realized I needed to stop.'' With the encouragement of her husband and teenage sons, she walked into Bloomberg one day last spring and quit on the spot. ''I've decided I don't want to be a lawyer anymore,'' she said.
On a recent Thursday morning, Ms. Godin was tending to last-minute details before her grand opening, which was to happen that Saturday, complete with a ribbon-cutting ceremony by Representative Nita M. Lowey. Everything looked perfect.
The door handle to the shop, on the main commercial thoroughfare in the Westchester County town of Hastings-on-Hudson, was made of a French rolling pin. The walls were freshly painted in a cheerful yellow (shade: buttercream) and rich brown (chocolate). Delectable raspberry muffins, ginger cookies, coconut cake, lemon cake and four-layer chocolate cakes lined the countertop. (She was offering samples to her many testers in town, not to mention to a reporter.) Neighboring merchants dropped by with good wishes. The liquor store guy came bearing a bottle of wine.
''I didn't quit with any plan whatsoever,'' Ms. Godin said. With her free time, she enrolled in a baking boot camp at a culinary institute (vegan baking, since that was the class with spots available) and came up with an idea. She had known she wanted her next act to be local (no more commuter trains), and ideally appealing enough that her sons would want to stop by on the way home from school. A bakery seemed to fit. Yet a regular bakery wouldn't do it.
The baking boot-camp instructor had told the class that gluten-free was ''hot'' these days. Ms. Godin wanted to start a business that would be ''a destination'' for people in neighboring towns. People might not drive to Hastings for a raspberry muffin, she reasoned. But they might make the trip for a supremely delicious, healthful, gluten-free raspberry muffin, especially if allergies kept them from eating the regular kind. And she was going to work until she came up with the best, tastiest gluten-free treats around. ''I didn't want to do muffins that tasted like beans,'' she said.
The trick for Ms. Godin (and herein likes the key for many gluten-free entrepreneurs) was not to turn off regular, allergy-free customers by trumpeting that all the offerings are gluten-free. Hence the name she came up with: By the Way Bakery (no ''gluten-free'' in the title). The concept: boy, this is delicious and, by the way, it's gluten-free.
The appeal of gluten-free bakeries speaks to the current interest in food and health, and to our allergy-laden times. It also has that all-crucial Plan B element of providing joy, satisfaction and pleasure to others.
Ms. Gillette, the former Spanish teacher who opened a gluten-free bakery last weekend, spent her summer break teaching a baking class for children a few years ago. She found a startling number of them could not eat the treats they made because of allergies; the most common allergy was to gluten. ''There's nothing like seeing a five-year-old make a chocolate chip cookie and she can't dive into it,'' Ms. Gillette said. ''It kind of broke my heart. I told myself I'm going to have to teach myself how to be a gluten-free chef.''
A number of gluten-free bakers, like Taylor Nicholson, a former litigation consultant, and Anne Hoyt, a former banker, were drawn to the business because of their own health issues. The pair, who are mother and daughter (Ms. Hoyt is the mother), suffer from celiac disease. After altering their own diet and cooking habits, and with the encouragement of friends, they decided they could put together a viable business selling the products of the gluten-free recipes they'd devised. They held their breath and quit their jobs. Their Wholesome Foods Bakery in East Dallas opened just over a year ago.
''It was very scary in the turbulent economic situation,'' Ms. Nicholson said, ''to quit a job that had a good career path for my mom and I. But I think we had a lot of faith in our product.''
So far, so good. ''It's been incredibly fun,'' Ms. Nicholson said. ''Owning your own business, your mind never shuts off. But it's different, and we're so passionate about what we're doing.''
For others, gluten-free is a different sort of Plan B, a way to pick up the pieces after a previous professional life faltered. For years, the Irwins had been lucky to have corporate clients from the booming mortgage business for their graphic-design business, who had ample need for commissioning of logos, advertisements, invitations and other designs. The biggest lender of all, Countrywide Home Loans, was their biggest client.
Then came 2008, when Countrywide became the public symbol of ineptitude and corruption in the mortgage business -- and the Irwin's business went down, too.
But Edie Irwin had always loved to bake. She had already been doing some work on the side for a vegetarian restaurant and was becoming interested in gluten-free. ''I'd tasted a lot of gluten-free bread and thought, 'Wow, this stuff is terrible,' '' she said. ''I thought I could do better and thought because I didn't need to eat gluten-free, I could hold it to a higher standard.''
So when the partners in that restaurant had the opportunity to buy a gluten-free bakery in Culver City, outside of Los Angeles, they asked the Irwins to join them, take a one-third ownership stake, and take over the running of the business.
The Sensitive Baker, as their bakery is called, is growing fast. ''I spent years sitting in my office and didn't realize how much I wanted to be out talking to people,'' Mr. Irwin said, citing another important quotient to most people's Plan B equations.
Elsewhere in Los Angeles, Paul and Marilyn King were going through a similar crisis. Their business, a contracting company that built and maintained commercial buildings across the country, had done very well for 20 years. But when the real estate industry collapsed, their business did, too.
''I was pretty much in a state of depression,'' Mr. King said. ''I didn't want to do anything, I didn't know what to do.''
In the past, his wife had conducted a side business baking wedding cakes and other custom cakes for friends, business clients and members of their church. She'd stopped a few years earlier after learning she was gluten-intolerant. But with their economic livelihood in a shambles, she came up with an idea to give it a try again, this time focusing on gluten-free products.
''One day my wife comes to me and says, 'I'm going to start a bakery,' '' Mr. King said. ''I wasn't the most supportive husband: 'The worst economy in our lifetime -- you want to start a business? Gluten-free?' ''
He agreed to it as a ''stopgap source of income.'' Today it's become an all-encompassing enterprise; their business, Tia's Bakery, now sells gluten-free products in health and natural-food stores across the country, including Whole Foods stores in 14 states.
''There was a certain satisfaction in putting up a 10-story building,'' Mr. King says of his old profession. ''But it can't be matched when someone thanks you for something you've given them that they haven't been able to have.''
Nevertheless, the prospect of their gluten-free enterprise ever becoming as successful as their commercial real estate business is a long shot, Mr. King acknowledged. ''Anyone who thinks they're going to start a food company as we did, with no money, better be passionate about it,'' he said. ''If you're in it for the money, good luck to you.''
But then again, Plan B's are about so much more than getting rich.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO GLUTEN HERE Top: Helene Godin, owner of By The Way Bakery in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and cake. Center: Dan and Edie Irwin in their Sensitive Baker, in Culver City, Calif., and bread. Bottom: Wholesome Foods Bakery owners, Anne Hoyt, left, and daughter Taylor Nicholson in Dallas, and bar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP: KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CENTER: ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BOTTOM: MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
LAWYER NO MORE: Helene Godin, owner of By The Way Bakery, with customers at the grand opening on May 7. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HANDS ON: Edie Irwin, top, prepares seeded sorghum slow-rise (glutenfree) baguettes in her bakery, The Sensitive Baker. An owner of Wholesome Foods Bakery, Anne Hoyt, slices into a carrot cake. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP: ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE: MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); BAKERIES (90%); FOOD ALLERGIES (89%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (78%); WRITERS (77%); FOOD INTOLERANCES (75%); BAKED GOODS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); RETAIL BAKERIES (70%); LAWYERS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); TENNIS (67%); SPORTS (67%); SKIING (65%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (61%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: NOVAK DJOKOVIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



171 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2439 words

HEADLINE: Chronicler of the Art-Vandal Underground

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER; Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the windy darkness of a recent spring morning, 30 people of an arty, mostly Brooklynite persuasion gathered after midnight for an illicit get-together in a maintenance shed, high atop the Williamsburg Bridge. Billed as the ''Third-Annual NYC Undercover, You-Might-Be-Arrested, Clandestine Errantry Trespassing Adventure Party,'' the event attracted members of a distinct, risk-taking subset of the New York art world -- heights-loving writers, courageous painters, a devil-may-care guitarist, a guy lugging bongos and the Williamsburg photographer, Tod Seelie -- all of whom had been quietly invited to the late-night affair by its pseudonymous organizers, Agent Verde and Agent Rojo.
After scrambling over a 10-foot-high security fence, the partygoers climbed a steel staircase -- the lights of Manhattan glimmering below -- as part of a vertiginous, invigorating trip that culminated in a catwalk, a ladder and finally a narrow hatchway, leading up to a low-ceilinged room of riveted metal plates. There, for more than an hour, the group made music and unauthorized public art. Light was provided by votive candles and flashlights. Mr. Seelie, a bald man sporting tattoos and a Fu Manchu mustache, camera at his eye, stood taking pictures in the middle of the room. 
''When a trip takes this much effort,'' he said, ''there's usually something worthwhile at the end.''
For Mr. Seelie, who is 33 and could be called the house photographer for the Kings County art-vandal underground, something worthwhile might include: a female mud-wrestling match, a violent punk show, an illegal party in an abandoned warehouse, a guerilla theater event in the snow or a group sailing trip through New York Harbor (and beyond) on rafts made of junk. Last month, he sat down for a coffee at the Cafe Orwell, in Bushwick, Brooklyn, a few nights after shooting an art show at the Gowanus Ballroom. ''It turned out pretty good,'' he remarked offhandedly. ''The band performance ended with naked people running around with watermelons on their heads.''
Mr. Seelie's work -- which can be seen on four Web sites and in publications as various as Spin, Vice and The New York Times -- often documents occasions that may seem weird for weirdness's sake (a randomly burning car, say, or a randomly burning drum kit still being played by the drummer). But his images at times elevate mere weirdness to a more striking realm of visual intrigue. Strange, vivid, baffling and relentlessly unexplained, they leave their viewers transfixed by certain questions: Who are those people running down that hill in their underwear? Did someone punch that kid with the black eye? Why is that man vomiting on the street?
''He's a guy who's always had an interest in the extreme -- in interesting, envelope-pushing opportunities,'' said Mr. Seelie's friend, Todd Patrick, a music promoter better known in Brooklyn circles as Todd P. ''He's all about showing smart, sometimes privileged, people doing stuff they probably haven't done before. He likes to catch upper-middle-class white kids actually doing interesting things.''
Whether that means Williamsburg eviction parties where artists can be found careering down stairs, toboggan-style, in bathtubs, or gatherings of the outlaw biker gang Skidmarxxx (which may include the decapitated head of a pig), Mr. Seelie has brought his camera -- and, with it, his audience -- into some of the city's most unusual and arresting (at times, literally) happenings, while remaining true to the disturbing or evanescent nature of those happenings. Unlike some photographers, he is not a tourist or a journalistic transient, calling ahead to make arrangements, then parachuting in to steal a shot. ''Tod's not from the outside,'' said Sarah E. McMillan, an artist with the guerilla art collective, the Madagascar Institute (motto: ''Fear is Never Boring''). ''A lot of documentarians think the eyes of the future are more important than the eyes of the present. Not Tod. He's noninvasive. He knows where to stand.''
A few weeks ago, Mr. Seelie was standing where he often stands -- at the lip of a stage in Williamsburg -- for a tinnitus-inducing concert by the Rhode Island band Lightning Bolt. Lightning Bolt, some years ago, achieved a kind of fame by playing on the floors, not the stages, of their venues, a practice they had to give up after being mobbed so thoroughly by an audience that they couldn't hoist their instruments. The Williamsburg concert began with the band's bassist asking the crowd not to swarm the stage once the music started. The request was disregarded by the second bar of the first song.
After gathering momentum in a mosh pit, a wave of human bodies crashed into, then onto, the stage, tumbling everywhere as entangled limbs and torsos spilled at the feet of the musicians. Mr. Seelie, crouching with his camera, was caught beneath the crest.
''Nothing serious, just a few scratches and some bruises,'' he wrote later that night, in a text message explaining how he fared at the concert.
The text message was written at 2:34 a.m. Most communications from him bear a similar time stamp.
Tod Seelie was born and raised in Rocky River, Ohio, a semi-affluent suburb on the west side of Cleveland with old homes, new strip malls and lakeside views. His father was divorced from his mother when Mr. Seelie was 12. He said he and his father were estranged for many years due to Tod's refusal to attend St. Ignatius, an elite Catholic preparatory school for boys. Instead, Mr. Seelie says, he chose a more obscure religion, devoting his adolescence to the worship of Cleveland's punk rock bands. ''What I remember most growing up,'' he told an interviewer in 2009, ''are tall trees, industrial wasteland, the gray expanse of Lake Erie, the silence of a winter night and how popular Phil Collins's music was.''
He came to New York City in 1997, on a scholarship, to study sculpture at the Pratt Institute, and started taking snapshots of his friends (among them the artist known as Swoon and Ian Vanek, who went on to found the band Japanther) while working as an art assistant on the side to help defray the cost of his education. ''Tod and I had to work a little harder than some others did to get where we were,'' said Swoon, whose real name is Caledonia Curry. ''But I think we both appreciated how focused and committed it made us.''
After graduating from Pratt with a photography degree, Mr. Seelie joined Ms. Curry in an art collective called Toyshop, which in the early 2000s undertook a sly series of public art projects, like mud wrestling in Walter De Maria's ''New York Earth Room'' or dressing up in pirate garb in an attempt to confound commuters on the Staten Island Ferry. Toyshop grew out of a goofily rebellious crew of art students and art-school hangers-on who were, as Mr. Vanek put it in an e-mail, ''D.I.Y. punks with adventure spirit and wanderlust -- a bit criminal at the right moments and a bit flower power at others.''
New York at the turn of the millennium was passing through a seemingly endless real-estate and capital-markets boom, and it appeared that every other city block was being colonized by condominiums. The art world, in particular, seemed to be defined by the glass-and-steel Chelsea galleries that specialized in transferring work from artists to well-heeled Wall Streeters in exchange for enormous sums of money. Mr. Seelie's troupe of Brooklyn-based, bicycle-riding street artists adopted tactics that placed them in opposition to this new Gilded Age. If they wanted to make a painting, they didn't wait for gallery space to become available; they painted on the walls of a building in their neighborhood. If they wanted to stage a concert, they didn't solicit booking agents at overpriced nightclubs; they used someone's apartment, or commandeered an empty warehouse and rigged the lights and speakers by themselves.
''Most of the things I'm drawn to are done by D.I.Y. people who make what they want to happen, happen,'' Mr. Seelie said. ''You want to put on a play? Great. Find an abandoned power plant.''
Mr. Seelie and his circle of friends have known each other for many years, from bike kills (rallies of competing ganglike bicycle clubs) and from secret parties in abandoned or illegal spaces, said one of those friends, a disc jockey who goes by the nightclub moniker D. J. Dirtyfinger. ''His people in New York are people who don't do stuff within the confines of standard bars or parties. They're out there being creative almost to a renegade level.''
This renegade aesthetic was clearly formed in response to capitalist economics, though not necessarily in a self-conscious way. The pictures Mr. Seelie has taken over the years -- of the Critical Mass bike group, of artists like Swoon, of men with lances jousting on bicycles -- are arguably representative of a broader reaction to globalism and corporatism, made plain in events as diverse as the Idiot-arod, a shopping cart race based on Alaska's Iditarod sled race; or SantaCon, the raunchy Christmas costume parade; or Grub, a semimonthly, Toyshop-derived, Dumpster-diving dinner party where participants eat communally cooked food, sometimes taken from the trash.
''D.I.Y. is obviously a moving target,'' said Mr. Patrick, the music promoter. There are extreme cases -- the ''Crusties,'' as he called them -- ''who live in squats and hop trains.'' But then there are those, he said, ''who live in the world of jobs and apartments and who simply make room in their lives for anti-establishment culture.''
''Ultimately, Tod's passion is for experiences that are only really possible if you're living at the extreme,'' Mr. Patrick said.
In true D.I.Y. spirit, most -- if not all -- of Mr. Seelie's photos can be found online at the four personally curated Web sites he maintains: the.everydayilive.com, the.ofquiet.com, suckapants.com and todseelie.com.
The first he describes as a ''crazy kind of place for burning cars and naked people'' where, indeed, you are likely to find photographs of long-haired men on stilts and bare-breasted women against a backdrop of mud pits or graffiti. The second consists of landscape photographs: the broken roads and decaying industrial structures Mr. Seelie describes as what might result if ''William Eggleston took photos of Detroit.'' The third is mostly a concert site, containing Mr. Seelie's shots of bands like Parts & Labor or Team Robespierre. Todseelie.com is ''the professional site,'' he said, designed to sell the images he produces to newspapers, publishers and magazines.
Earlier this spring, Mr. Seelie was contacted -- out of the blue, he said -- by a video production company working with Lexus, the automaker, which wanted to use footage of him shooting his pictures for an advertising campaign. In exchange for a few hours' work, he received a payment of $10,000. There were two unlikely aspects to this transaction. First, Mr. Seelie doesn't drive a car, let alone a Lexus. (He actually gets around on a Raleigh bicycle he salvaged from the street.) Second, the assignment paid him, in one lump sum, more than what he had made in all of 2010.
Mr. Seelie currently makes ends meet by installing other artists' gallery shows -- a friend unwittingly invited him last month to the opening of a show he helped to hang -- a job which pays about $20 an hour. Over the years he has designed calendars (of puppies, kittens and golfers) for Workman Publishing and served as a handyman at the Bowery Poetry Club. He once caulked sinks for the artist Dorothea Rockburne, and Cindy Sherman, the photographer, hired him one day to paint a chair.
''He works hard as a photographer, but he's also incredibly handy as a crew person,'' said Jeff Stark, a producer of guerilla theater and the editor of the strange-happenings newsletter, Nonsense NYC. ''Tod's the kind of person who will take pictures and then jump in and help wire up your electrical.''
Mr. Seelie's personal distillation of the art-versus-commerce conundrum goes something like this: ''It's less about trying to make money and more about figuring out ways not to spend money.'' He travels frequently -- he has worked on projects in Haiti, Chernobyl and Detroit -- and usually pays for his expeditions by subletting his Williamsburg walkup and living cheaply.
That maddening aspiration of most working artists -- the big break -- has so far eluded him, but the seeds of such a break may be found in his latest and most ambitious project: a book-length collection of images documenting the last 10 years of the underground art scene. Stored in boxes and on hard-drives, the photographs depict, Mr. Seelie said, the dawning of the New York street-art movement, the birth of the local chapter of the Black Label Bike Club and the early years of bands like Black Dice, Japanther and Matt & Kim. While the material may not mean much to those unfamiliar with these groups and events, Mr. Seelie speaks with a historian's pride when he says, ''I've got shots of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs literally playing in an auto parts garage.''
In the meantime, he moves about nocturnally, showing up at performances by Big Freedia, the self-styled ''Queen Diva'' of New Orleans hip-hop, and at Cerebral Ballzy concerts. Late this winter, Mr. Seelie found himself at an art show at the Clocktower Gallery in lower Manhattan. The event featured the So So Glos, an indie band from Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and was called-- unironically -- ''Puttin' on the Ritz.'' The evening's producer, Joe Ahearn, had thought it would be clever and refreshing if the habitually sneaker-shod denizens of the alt-arts world were forced to attend an event in formalwear. (Mr. Ahearn was himself dressed in a morning coat with tails.)
In the top-floor gallery space, undernourished men in bowties mixed with women whose metallic-colored ball gowns matched their dyed hair. People made fun of the wooden ''spaceship'' in the corner, sculptured, it was said, by the actor James Franco. As the So So Glos accompanied them, two Russian dancers from a local studio waltzed.
Throughout the evening, people could be heard whispering to one another that there was something vaguely recognizable about the space -- or more correctly, about the building that contained the space. At some point, word went around that a lower floor of the building housed the summons part of the Manhattan Criminal Court, where misdemeanor offenders -- pot smokers, trespassers, traffic violators -- went to pay their fines.
Judging by the number of knowing smiles and chuckles, half the room had visited the building before, in its judicial capacity. ''I thought it looked familiar,'' Mr. Seelie said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AT WORK: The photographer Tod Seelie shooting the band Lightning Bolt in April. Below, his ''Soup Flame'' (2007). ''Most of the things I'm drawn to are done by D.I.Y. people,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TOD SEELIE) (MB1)
PORTFOLIO: Tod Seelie's work, clockwise from top: A self-portrait taken while shooting at a Big Freedia show in Brooklyn in May
''Bochay Clown,'' 2007
''Raft Manhattan,'' 2009
''Bicycle Madonna,'' 2005
 ''Monotonix Fire,'' 2008. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD SEELIE) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); MUSIC (75%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (75%); SAILING (66%); HAIR LOSS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



172 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; NOVELTIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Bend Me, Shape Me: The Heavy-Metal Version

BYLINE: By ANNE EISENBERG

 BODY:
IT'S hard to beat the versatility of plastic on a production line. Melt and inject it into molds, let it cool and harden, and out comes an endless variety of parts at high rates of speed.
Metals can't always compete -- except, perhaps, in the movie ''Terminator 2,'' where an evil android can promptly transform molten metal into whatever shape is needed to challenge Arnold Schwarzenegger.
But now, off screen in a laboratory at the California Institute of Technology, researchers have found an ingenious way to coax metal alloys to solidify into a range of shapes as though they were plastics being molded -- and thus create stronger products. And, as such, molded metal might someday be useful as structural components or as casings to protect laptops and smartphones, for example. 
In the May 13 issue of Science, William L. Johnson, a professor of engineering and applied science at Caltech in Pasadena, along with colleagues, published a new, ultrafast method for heating and injecting a metallic alloy into a mold to create shapes.
''We use the method to create precision parts,'' he said. ''The alloy can be squeezed into just about any shape you want, and it will be far stronger and stiffer than plastic.''
Dr. Johnson and a co-author, Marios D. Demetriou, a senior research fellow at Caltech, have formed a company, Glassimetal Technology, and are setting up an engineering and prototype center in Pasadena to demonstrate the process, Dr. Johnson said.
The name ''Glassimetal'' refers to the alloys called metallic glasses or glassy metals that the company uses in its new manufacturing process. These metallic glasses were invented at Caltech just over 50 years ago, said A. Lindsay Greer, a professor of materials science at the University of Cambridge in England.
''Metallic glasses are materials with striking properties,'' he said. ''They are quite hard, but also rather formable like plastics -- an attractive combination.''
Dr. Greer says the alloys have the disorderly atomic structure of glass, rather than the orderly one of conventional metals. This microstructure means that the alloys can do what glass does -- congeal into a solid without crystallizing first, a property that gives both glass and these glassy alloys great inherent strength.
One company using glassy metals for its products is Metglas Inc., a unit of Hitachi Metals America, in Conway, S.C. Metglas supplies ribbon made of metallic glass used inside distribution transformers for electrical utilities, and within antitheft devices placed on goods to set off an alarm at store exits, said Ryusuke Hasegawa, vice president for research.
Dr. Johnson's new method should make it possible to use the alloys to create a huge variety of shapes, Dr. Hasegawa said. ''There will be many applications,'' he said. ''With this process, you can make structural parts that are strong and hard.''
Dr. Greer of Cambridge said metallic glasses like the zirconium-based one used by Dr. Johnson might raise the cost of manufacturing. ''Because the alloys are expensive,'' Dr. Greer said, ''these materials will probably be used mainly in niche applications where the benefits of the properties give you sufficiently better performance to justify the expense.'' One use, for example, might be for automatic sensing of tire pressure. A metallic glass, he said, has greater flexibility than a conventional, crystalline metal, giving the sensor much better sensitivity.
But the manufacturing method that Dr. Johnson has created could be economical enough to chip away at some of this extra expense of raw materials, he said.
THIS manufacturing process overcomes a drawback of metallic glasses: they crystallize quickly when heated, losing the microstructure that makes them so strong. But Dr. Johnson's method is so quick that it circumvents the problem. The entire process of shaping and cooling takes only hundredths of a second, so fast that the material turns viscous and can be molded without crystallization.
The rapid heating is done by passing an electric current through the alloy. ''Nature has been kind here,'' Dr. Greer said of the process. ''If you tried passing an electric current through most other materials besides metallic glasses, it probably wouldn't work,'' because current tends to concentrate in hot spots.
It was remarkable that the researchers ''could demonstrate extremely uniform temperatures throughout the material,'' he said. That makes the whole process easy to control and may have a big impact on manufacturing. ''You do a simple calculation about how much heat must be put in to get the material to deform and flow like plastic,'' he said. ''Pull the switch and off you go.''
Merton C. Flemings, an emeritus professor of materials processing at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has worked with metals for decades, said the process would create many opportunities to use the alloys. ''This opens the door to more inexpensive manufacturing using glassy metals,'' he said.
E-mail: novelties@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William L. Johnson, a Caltech professor, with a stainless-steel mold device, left, that is used to make the metallic glass part at right. A new method can shape metal alloys as if they were plastic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE HAYASHIDA/CALTECH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MATERIALS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SMARTPHONES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WRITERS (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (72%); ENGLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



173 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Should (Could) This Bond Be Broken?

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- America's tormented relationship with Pakistan has long had the subtlety of a professional wrestling match. So when frayed relations turned openly hostile in recent weeks, it was hardly a surprise to see Pakistani officials flirt publicly with China, America's biggest rival in Asia.
Within days of the American raid deep inside Pakistan that killed Osama bin Laden, Pakistani officials travelled to Beijing and asked their ''Chinese brothers'' to operate a strategic port on the Arabian Sea. They also said the two countries were planning oil pipelines, railroads and even military bases in Pakistan for the Chinese Navy.
The Pakistani officials had already advised their neighbors in Afghanistan -- where Americans have committed billions of dollars and lost more than 1,500 lives since 2001 -- that Afghanistan would be better off placing long-term bets on an ascendant China, rather than a declining United States. 
With the tortured marriage clearly in trouble, Islamabad has sent signals that it is ready to start seeing other people. Can Washington afford to do the same? And just how far could Pakistan get by playing the field?
With Bin Laden dead and the White House determined to get the bulk of American troops out of Afghanistan as quickly as possible, some in Washington make the case that the ties that bind the United States to Pakistan are no longer so strong, and that the allegiances that have entangled them over the past decade could be rearranged.
There are new dynamics now at play, noticed by analysts who liken this era to the years immediately after the cold war. For decades, fears of Soviet expansion had brought the United States and Pakistan into a tight embrace, but those ties weakened and ultimately broke once that threat had passed. Similarly, an American withdrawal from Afghanistan could put greater distance between the two nations and allow ties between Washington and New Delhi to grow.
''As we begin to rely on Pakistan less to get supplies into Afghanistan, America's axis with India will continue to strengthen,'' said Bruce O. Riedel, a former C.I.A. official now at the Brookings Institution. If this happened, he said, it would only be natural for Islamabad to try to grow even closer to China and Saudi Arabia, two longtime allies and trading partners.
But even then, there would be limits on how much America might suffer. Some experts say that a network of new regional relationships with Pakistan actually might help America pursue its deepest interests in the region.
Don't expect an open break tomorrow, of course. For the moment, the United States and Pakistan remain bound to each other. As long as war rages in Afghanistan, the United States will rely on routes in Pakistan to ferry in military supplies, and to keep pressure on militants in Pakistan's tribal areas. And the Pakistani government still needs the billions that come each year from Washington to, among other things, keep pace in its arms race with India.
Once the war in Afghanistan winds down, though, the relationship could change. Some analysts foresee a new Great Game for dominance in the region, with stakes like billions of dollars in mineral wealth in Afghanistan, access to vital shipping lanes, and a need to monitor the longstanding tensions between India and Pakistan.
Some experts say that a bit of breathing room in the American-Pakistani relationship -- managed responsibly -- might be just the right therapy for the partnership. In the 10 years since Sept. 11, 2001, both the Bush and Obama administrations have made dozens of official visits to Islamabad to implore, lecture or demand that Pakistan sever ties to militant groups, even attaching strings (without ever really pulling them) to billions of dollars in annual aid. Pakistan's reaction seems to have been little more than resentment of its dependency on Washington, and a determination to pursue an independent course, whether by hiding some of its intelligence agency's activities or by openly hinting at taking another partner, like China.
One question, however, is whether China sees such a partnership quite the same way.
Daniel Markey of the Council on Foreign Relations said that on a recent trip to Islamabad he was struck by how openly Pakistani officials talked about China as a promising strategic alternative to the United States. But he also said that travelling to Beijing made it clear to him that the Chinese didn't return the sentiments.
''The Chinese are simply not interested in playing Pakistan's game, and they don't want to be played as a card against the United States,'' said Mr. Markey.
What they might be willing to do, however, is cooperate in creating new opportunities to stabilize the region. Instead of the United States, China and others being at cross-purposes there, the regional powers might team up not only in trying to keep a lid on Pakistan's combustible dynamics, but also on the thorny problem of the endgame in Afghanistan.
As much as India, China, Pakistan, Iran and Russia are all jockeying for influence inside Afghanistan, most experts believe that they all fear a rushed American military pullout and a chaotic power vacuum that might follow.
These fears have as much to do with economics as security. India, China and Russia, for example, have been exploring ways to tap vast mineral reserves in Afghanistan, and have supported major road projects that could again make Afghanistan a regional transportation hub. But that goal could be reached only when the shooting stops, and all the powers therefore have an interest in pushing the Afghan government, the Taliban, and some of the other warring Afghan parties toward a peace.
If such a patch of common ground could be cleared, it might also be used for influencing Pakistan to exert leverage over the Taliban, Haqqani network and other Pashtun groups with which it has historical ties. From the American point of view, that would mean turning Pakistan's years of double-dealing to positive effect.
Some people who have spent time in the trenches of United States-Pakistan diplomacy said that as tempting as it might be just to walk away from the headaches of the relationship, a far better approach would be to bring others into the game.
Vali Nasr, who left the State Department in April after working for the late diplomat Richard Holbrooke, said that the ''wheels have jammed'' in the alliance: Because neither side trusts each other, the United States cannot exert any of the leverage it has with Pakistan.
As he sees it, the United States could help escape the pathologies of the alliance by convincing China, Saudi Arabia, and other nations like the United Arab Emirates that it would be truly ugly if Pakistan were to implode.
It's a scare tactic, he admits. But, with a battle for Pakistan's soul being waged among its Islamists, the security establishment, and a moderate middle class, Mr. Nasr says he believes that an unraveling in Pakistan is a clear possibility. At the least, he said, this approach might allow America to coordinate its efforts with countries that Pakistan is more eager to listen to.
He also wants to ensure that the alliance can survive in the future.
''We're behaving as if killing Bin Laden was our last piece of business in Pakistan, and that's incredibly dangerous,'' he said.
After all, the United States beat a hasty exit from the region when the Soviets left Afghanistan, with chaotic results. This time around, the region is armed to the teeth with nuclear weapons, and it could become far messier.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Flirting: In May, Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani, second from right, led a four-day Pakistani visit to China. PremierWen Jiabao of China is second from left. (POOL PHOTO BY JASON LEE) (WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) (WK1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (78%); AL-QAEDA (76%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); NAVIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRESTLING (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (71%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



174 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Judith Griffin, Matthew Reid

 BODY:
Dr. Judith Louise Griffin and Matthew Charles Reid were married Friday in Waterville, Me. The Rev. Apollinary Kavishe performed the ceremony at Notre Dame Roman Catholic Church. 
The couple, both 29, have known each other since elementary school.
Dr. Griffin is keeping her name. She received a medical degree from Columbia last month. This month she is to become an intern in a primary-care residency at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.
She is the daughter of Dr. Margaret B. Griffin and Dr. Michael J. Griffin of Oakland, Me. Her father, a retired gastroenterologist, was a partner in Mid-Maine Gastroenterology, a group practice in Waterville. Her mother, a retired obstetrician and gynecologist, was a partner in Waterville Ob/Gyn.
Mr. Reid is a doctoral candidate in civil and environmental engineering at Princeton. He graduated from the University of Chicago, and was a Peace Corps volunteer in Tanzania from 2004 to 2006, teaching high school chemistry in Karatu.
He is the son of Sheila M. McCarthy and Clifford E. Reid of Waterville. His parents, who are retired, both worked at Colby College in Waterville. His mother was an associate professor of Russian. His father was the Charles A. Dana Professor of Economics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); RELIGION (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (76%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); ENGINEERING (67%); VOLUNTEERS (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); PEACE CORPS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) MAINE, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



175 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Jennifer Atanasoska, Cory Davis

 BODY:
Jennifer Atanasoska, a daughter of Neda Atanasoska and Kiro Atanasoski of New York, was married Saturday to Cory Alexander Davis, a son of Margery E. Davis and Mark B. Davis of Patterson, N.Y. The Rev. Puja A. J. Thomson, a minister of the Healing Light Center Church, officiated at the Mohonk Mountain House in New Paltz, N.Y. 
Mrs. Davis, 26, is the program manager at the Mayor's Fund to Advance New York City, a nonprofit organization that supports city programs. She develops and manages partnerships with businesses, individuals and foundations. She graduated from Lehigh and received a master's in international affairs from Columbia.
Her father is the superintendent of an apartment building in the Inwood neighborhood of Manhattan that is owned by Parkoff Management. Her mother is an office cleaner for DynaServ, a cleaning contractor in New York.
Mr. Davis, 29, is the chief executive of Princeton Brand Econometrics, a consultancy in Princeton, N.J., that advises pharmaceutical companies on market decisions. He graduated cum laude from Vassar College.
His mother is a freelance bookkeeper in Patterson. His father retired as a manufacturer's representative for makers of medical devices and equipment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (74%); MEDICAL DEVICES (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (54%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



176 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; VIDEO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Chopin, Schubert And Dietrich (The Latter Nude)

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
AFTER ''Blonde Venus'' flopped in 1932, Paramount decided to break up the powerful creative alliance between the director Josef von Sternberg and the actress Marlene Dietrich, whom he had discovered in Germany and brought to Hollywood. While Sternberg, who was Jewish, entertained bizarre fantasies of returning to Germany to work for the state-controlled studio Ufa (he thought the Germans would treat him as the great artist he was), Dietrich was hustled directly into ''The Song of Songs,'' which has recently surfaced as half of a ''Pre-Code Double Feature'' available exclusively through the TCM Web site. (The other film is ''This Is the Night.'')
Dietrich was still a valuable property, and the studio was probably trying to do its best by her by assigning ''The Song of Songs'' (1933) to Rouben Mamoulian, a prominent Broadway director who occasionally condescended to make moving pictures. The results are pretty appalling, but the film remains an instructive illustration of the culture war that then existed between the principled intellectuals of New York and the rampaging lowbrows of Los Angeles. Though the New Yorkers were triumphant at the time, history has largely reversed that judgment. 
''The Song of Songs'' proudly shows off its cultural credentials: a prestigious source novel (by Hermann Sudermann, whose short story ''The Trip to Tilsit'' was the basis for Murnau's ''Sunrise''); a British supporting cast (Brian Aherne as the Berlin sculptor inspired by Dietrich's naive peasant girl; Lionel Atwill as the decadent aristocrat who steals her away); a nonstop score composed of snippets from Chopin, Schubert and Strauss; and at its center a monumental nude sculpture of Dietrich, executed by Salvatore Cartaino Scarpitta (whose allegorical bas reliefs for the newly opened Los Angeles Stock Exchange were the sensation of the hour).
The sculpture, which might have been designed for the prow of an Art Deco ocean liner, depicts Dietrich as the embodiment of the eternal feminine, rising up on point with her arms open at her side -- a pose that suggests great spiritual yearning but also exaggerates the lift of a pair of perky breasts.
Essentially the film is little more than an elaborate ruse to film Dietrich undressing (as the peasant girl -- shyly at first, then with defiant pride -- disrobes for the sculptor) and display the results in an aestheticized form that would not disturb the local censor boards. All of which would be fine, except that, between modeling sessions, poor Marlene is forced to frolic through the German countryside (unconvincingly played by the San Fernando Valley), introducing Aherne to the joys of nature. Instructing him in the proper manner of inhaling the rich scent of the earth, she urges him to press his face into the ground: ''You've got to be grass.''
Under these circumstances it's easy to believe the old story in which Dietrich, standing bereft on a soundstage, pleaded into an open mike, ''Joe, where are you?'' Sternberg, cured of his Old World illusions, eventually returned to Dietrich and Paramount for two final masterworks, ''The Scarlet Empress'' (1934) and ''The Devil Is a Woman'' (1935).
As nice as it is to have ''The Song of Songs'' available (and the print transfer is first rate), the question remains: Why this relatively minor effort when perhaps the most visually stunning of the Dietrich-Sternberg films, ''Shanghai Express'' (1932), has never been released on DVD in this country?
Accompanying ''The Song of Songs'' in the TCM set, ''This Is the Night,'' also from 1932, is a stylish and entertaining trifle directed by the Paramount workhorse Frank Tuttle. The French actress Lili Damita (who would soon marry Errol Flynn and retire from movies) stars as an unemployed Parisian actress who is hired by a British roue (Roland Young) to impersonate the wife he doesn't have -- a ruse that will allow him to carry out a planned affair with the thrill-seeking wife (Thelma Todd, as always an entire movie in herself) of a champion javelin thrower (Cary Grant, in his feature-film debut).
''This Is the Night'' also has its high-culture aspirations, though it wears them with infinitely more grace than the Mamoulian film. Constructed as a sort of visual operetta, the film begins with a conductor lifting his baton from a podium and ends with him setting it down. In between, the film presents a series of orchestrated images, sometimes taking the form of a pulsating, rhythmic montage (like the ''city symphony'' films of Walther Ruttmann and Dziga Vertov), at other times arranging dialogue and sound effects into a rhyming, musical presentation (as the French director Rene Clair was doing at the time, in films like ''Under the Roofs of Paris'' and ''A Nous la Liberte'').
Though the film has only a handful of actual songs, none particularly memorable, it conveys a consistent musicality. When Todd's evening gown is caught in a car door, an appreciative crowd passes around a snatch of recitative set to the phrase ''Madame has lost her dress,'' a motif that recurs in various ingenious contexts throughout the film; a group of porters loads luggage onto a wagon lighted (as the action moves to Venice) with the choreographed precision of a Broadway chorus line.
Tuttle would take these ideas further with his next film, ''The Big Broadcast,'' a 1932 hit that would give Bing Crosby his first leading role in a feature and seal Tuttle's fate for the next several years as a director of light comedy (including five more films with Crosby).
Yet Tuttle had another, more somber side, as a card-carrying member of the Communist Party (and later as a name-naming witness before the House Committee on Un-American Activities). Though Tuttle generally kept his ideological tendencies in check, he did create two remarkable political films in collaboration with the Communist screenwriter Lester Cole: ''I Stole a Million'' (1939) and ''Hostages'' (1943), a still startling indictment of capitalist collusion in the Nazi occupation of Czechoslovakia. Both films are in the Universal-Paramount library but have long since dropped out of sight. TCM, is it time yet for a Hollywood 10 box? (TCM Vault Collection, shop.tcm.com/boxsets, $24.99, not rated)
ALSO OUT THIS WEEK
THE STUNT MAN An escaped convict (Steve Railsback) finds cover posing as a stuntman on a film set dominated by a megalomaniacal director (Peter O'Toole). Barbara Hershey and Allen Garfield star in this cult favorite from 1980. Directed by Richard Rush. Though the ''film professes an interest in lofty questions of illusion and reality, simple trickery remains its prime concern,'' Janet Maslin wrote in The New York Times. (Severin Films, Blu-ray $29.98, DVD $14.98, R)
TRUE GRIT Jeff Bridges straps on the eye patch for a new version, by Joel and Ethan Coen, of the Charles Portis novel that helped John Wayne win his Oscar. With Matt Damon, Josh Brolin and Hailee Steinfeld. ''That old-time American religion of vengeance runs like a river through 'True Grit,' a comic-serious tale about some nasty, brutish times,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times in December.(Paramount, Blu-ray/DVD combo $39.99, DVD $29.99, PG-13)
ANOTHER YEAR From Mike Leigh (''Secrets and Lies''), a look at 12 months in the happily shared lives of a long-married couple (Jim Broadbent and Lesley Manville). Viewers ''will notice the shadows that an always-evolving system of social hierarchy casts over the passage of the seasons,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times in December.(Sony, Blu-ray/DVD combo $38.96, PG-13)
JUST GO WITH IT A surgeon (Adam Sandler) asks his assistant (Jennifer Aniston) to pose as his wife, hoping to alienate the affections of a marriage-minded swimsuit model (Brooklyn Decker). Complications ensue, in this loose adaptation of the dinner-theater classic ''Cactus Flower.'' Dennis Dugan directed; with Nicole Kidman and Nick Swardson. The movie ''seems to have been designed to excite search engines rather than flesh-and-blood audiences,'' Mr. Scott wrote in The Times in February.(Sony, Blu-ray $38.96, DVD $28.95, PG-13)
THE COMPANY MEN Ben Affleck, Chris Cooper and Tommy Lee Jones star as executives laid off from their high-paying jobs and forced to find new incomes and new identities in the working world. John Wells, the creator of ''ER,'' directed; with Maria Bello and Kevin Costner. ''The movie is realistic enough to make all corporate climbers, but especially men over 50, quake in their boots,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times in December. (The Weinstein Company, Blu-ray $39.99, DVD $29.98, R)
Correction: June 26, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A brief report on June 5 in the Also Out This Week column, about the release of the DVD of the film ''Another Year,'' misspelled the given name of one of its lead actresses. She is Lesley Manville, not Leslie. The report also misstated the actor who portrays Gerri, half of the film's long-married couple. She is Ruth Sheen, not Ms. Manville.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marlene Dietrich plays an artist's muse in Rouben Mamoulian's ''Song of Songs'' (1933), part of a new two-film set on DVD. (AR13)
 Cary Grant and Thelma Todd in ''This Is the Night'' (1932), half of a ''Pre-Code Double Feature.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNIVERSAL) (AR14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2011



177 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; TEMPERATURE RISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4026 words

HEADLINE: A Warming Planet Struggles to Feed Itself

BYLINE: By JUSTIN GILLIS; Hari Kumar contributed reporting from Samhauta, India.

 BODY:
CIUDAD OBREGON, Mexico -- The dun wheat field spreading out at Ravi P. Singh's feet offered a possible clue to human destiny. Baked by a desert sun and deliberately starved of water, the plants were parched and nearly dead.
Dr. Singh, a wheat breeder, grabbed seed heads that should have been plump with the staff of life. His practiced fingers found empty husks.
''You're not going to feed the people with that,'' he said.
But then, over in Plot 88, his eyes settled on a healthier plant, one that had managed to thrive in spite of the drought, producing plump kernels of wheat. ''This is beautiful!'' he shouted as wheat beards rustled in the wind. 
Hope in a stalk of grain: It is a hope the world needs these days, for the great agricultural system that feeds the human race is in trouble.
The rapid growth in farm output that defined the late 20th century has slowed to the point that it is failing to keep up with the demand for food, driven by population increases and rising affluence in once-poor countries.
Consumption of the four staples that supply most human calories -- wheat, rice, corn and soybeans -- has outstripped production for much of the past decade, drawing once-large stockpiles down to worrisome levels. The imbalance between supply and demand has resulted in two huge spikes in international grain prices since 2007, with some grains more than doubling in cost.
Those price jumps, though felt only moderately in the West, have worsened hunger for tens of millions of poor people, destabilizing politics in scores of countries, from Mexico to Uzbekistan to Yemen. The Haitian government was ousted in 2008 amid food riots, and anger over high prices has played a role in the recent Arab uprisings.
Now, the latest scientific research suggests that a previously discounted factor is helping to destabilize the food system: climate change.
Many of the failed harvests of the past decade were a consequence of weather disasters, like floods in the United States, drought in Australia and blistering heat waves in Europe and Russia. Scientists believe some, though not all, of those events were caused or worsened by human-induced global warming.
Temperatures are rising rapidly during the growing season in some of the most important agricultural countries, and a paper published several weeks ago found that this had shaved several percentage points off potential yields, adding to the price gyrations.
For nearly two decades, scientists had predicted that climate change would be relatively manageable for agriculture, suggesting that even under worst-case assumptions, it would probably take until 2080 for food prices to double.
In part, they were counting on a counterintuitive ace in the hole: that rising carbon dioxide levels, the primary contributor to global warming, would act as a powerful plant fertilizer and offset many of the ill effects of climate change.
Until a few years ago, these assumptions went largely unchallenged. But lately, the destabilization of the food system and the soaring prices have rattled many leading scientists.
''The success of agriculture has been astounding,'' said Cynthia Rosenzweig, a researcher at NASA who helped pioneer the study of climate change and agriculture. ''But I think there's starting to be premonitions that it may not continue forever.''
A scramble is on to figure out whether climate science has been too sanguine about the risks. Some researchers, analyzing computer forecasts that are used to advise governments on future crop prospects, are pointing out what they consider to be gaping holes. These include a failure to consider the effects of extreme weather, like the floods and the heat waves that are increasing as the earth warms.
A rising unease about the future of the world's food supply came through during interviews this year with more than 50 agricultural experts working in nine countries.
These experts say that in coming decades, farmers need to withstand whatever climate shocks come their way while roughly doubling the amount of food they produce to meet rising demand. And they need to do it while reducing the considerable environmental damage caused by the business of agriculture.
Agronomists emphasize that the situation is far from hopeless. Examples are already available, from the deserts of Mexico to the rice paddies of India, to show that it may be possible to make agriculture more productive and more resilient in the face of climate change. Farmers have achieved huge gains in output in the past, and rising prices are a powerful incentive to do so again.
But new crop varieties and new techniques are required, far beyond those available now, scientists said. Despite the urgent need, they added, promised financing has been slow to materialize, much of the necessary work has yet to begin and, once it does, it is likely to take decades to bear results.
''There's just such a tremendous disconnect, with people not understanding the highly dangerous situation we are in,'' said Marianne Banziger, deputy chief of the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, a leading research institute in Mexico.
A wheat physiologist at the center, Matthew Reynolds, fretted over the potential consequences of not attacking the problem vigorously.
''What a horrible world it will be if food really becomes short from one year to the next,'' he said. ''What will that do to society?''
'The World Is Talking'
Sitting with a group of his fellow wheat farmers, Francisco Javier Ramos Bours voiced a suspicion. Water shortages had already arrived in recent years for growers in his region, the Yaqui Valley, which sits in the Sonoran Desert of northwestern Mexico. In his view, global climate change could well be responsible.
''All the world is talking about it,'' Mr. Ramos said as the other farmers nodded.
Farmers everywhere face rising difficulties: water shortages as well as flash floods. Their crops are afflicted by emerging pests and diseases and by blasts of heat beyond anything they remember.
In a recent interview on the far side of the world, in northeastern India, a rice farmer named Ram Khatri Yadav offered his own complaint about the changing climate. ''It will not rain in the rainy season, but it will rain in the nonrainy season,'' he said. ''The cold season is also shrinking.''
Decades ago, the wheat farmers in the Yaqui Valley of Mexico were the vanguard of a broad development in agriculture called the Green Revolution, which used improved crop varieties and more intensive farming methods to raise food production across much of the developing world.
When Norman E. Borlaug, a young American agronomist, began working here in the 1940s under the sponsorship of the Rockefeller Foundation, the Yaqui Valley farmers embraced him. His successes as a breeder helped farmers raise Mexico's wheat output sixfold.
In the 1960s, Dr. Borlaug spread his approach to India and Pakistan, where mass starvation was feared. Output soared there, too.
Other countries joined the Green Revolution, and food production outstripped population growth through the latter half of the 20th century. Dr. Borlaug became the only agronomist ever to win the Nobel Peace Prize, in 1970, for helping to ''provide bread for a hungry world.''
As he accepted the prize in Oslo, he issued a stern warning. ''We may be at high tide now,'' he said, ''but ebb tide could soon set in if we become complacent and relax our efforts.''
As output rose, staple grains -- which feed people directly or are used to produce meat, eggs, dairy products and farmed fish -- became cheaper and cheaper. Poverty still prevented many people in poor countries from buying enough food, but over all, the percentage of hungry people in the world shrank.
By the late 1980s, food production seemed under control. Governments and foundations began to cut back on agricultural research, or to redirect money into the problems created by intensive farming, like environmental damage. Over a 20-year period, Western aid for agricultural development in poor countries fell by almost half, with some of the world's most important research centers suffering mass layoffs.
Just as Dr. Borlaug had predicted, the consequences of this loss of focus began to show up in the world's food system toward the end of the century. Output continued to rise, but because fewer innovations were reaching farmers, the growth rate slowed.
That lull occurred just as food and feed demand was starting to take off, thanks in part to rising affluence across much of Asia. Millions of people added meat and dairy products to their diets, requiring considerable grain to produce. Other factors contributed to demand, including a policy of converting much of the American corn crop into ethanol.
And erratic weather began eating into yields. A 2003 heat wave in Europe that some researchers believe was worsened by human-induced global warming slashed agricultural output in some countries by as much as 30 percent. A long drought in Australia, also possibly linked to climate change, cut wheat and rice production.
In 2007 and 2008, with grain stockpiles low, prices doubled and in some cases tripled. Whole countries began hoarding food, and panic buying ensued in some markets, notably for rice. Food riots broke out in more than 30 countries.
Farmers responded to the high prices by planting as much as possible, and healthy harvests in 2008 and 2009 helped rebuild stocks, to a degree. That factor, plus the global recession, drove prices down in 2009. But by last year, more weather-related harvest failures sent them soaring again. This year, rice supplies are adequate, but with bad weather threatening the wheat and corn crops in some areas, markets remain jittery.
Experts are starting to fear that the era of cheap food may be over. ''Our mindset was surpluses,'' said Dan Glickman, a former United States secretary of agriculture. ''That has just changed overnight.''
Forty years ago, a third of the population in the developing world was undernourished. By the tail end of the Green Revolution, in the mid-1990s, the share had fallen below 20 percent, and the absolute number of hungry people dipped below 800 million for the first time in modern history.
But the recent price spikes have helped cause the largest increases in world hunger in decades. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations estimated the number of hungry people at 925 million last year, and the number is expected to be higher when a fresh estimate is completed this year. The World Bank says the figure could be as high as 940 million.
Dr. Borlaug's latest successor at the corn and wheat institute, Hans-Joachim Braun, recently outlined the challenges facing the world's farmers. On top of the weather disasters, he said, booming cities are chewing up agricultural land and competing with farmers for water. In some of the world's breadbaskets, farmers have achieved high output only by pumping groundwater much faster than nature can replenish it.
''This is in no way sustainable,'' Dr. Braun said.
The farmers of the Yaqui Valley grow their wheat in a near-desert, relying on irrigation. Their water comes by aqueduct from nearby mountains, but for parts of the past decade, rainfall was below normal. Scientists do not know if this has been a consequence of climate change, but Northern Mexico falls squarely within a global belt that is expected to dry further because of human emissions of greenhouse gases.
Dr. Braun is leading efforts to tackle problems of this sort with new wheat varieties that would be able to withstand many kinds of stress, including scant water. Descendants of the plant that one of his breeders, Dr. Singh, found in a wheat field one recent day might eventually wind up in farmers' fields the world over.
But budgets for this kind of research remain exceedingly tight, frustrating agronomists who feel that the problems are growing more urgent by the year.
''There are biological limitations on how fast we can do this work,'' Dr. Braun said. ''If we don't get started now, we are going to be in serious trouble.''
Shaken Assumptions
For decades, scientists believed that the human dependence on fossil fuels, for all the problems it was expected to cause, would offer one enormous benefit.
Carbon dioxide, the main gas released by combustion, is also the primary fuel for the growth of plants. They draw it out of the air and, using the energy from sunlight, convert the carbon into energy-dense compounds like glucose. All human and animal life runs on these compounds.
Humans have already raised the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by 40 percent since the Industrial Revolution, and are on course to double or triple it over the coming century. Studies have long suggested that the extra gas would supercharge the world's food crops, and might be especially helpful in years when the weather is difficult.
But many of those studies were done in artificial conditions, like greenhouses or special growth chambers. For the past decade, scientists at the University of Illinois have been putting the ''CO2 fertilization effect'' to a real-world test in the two most important crops grown in the United States.
They started by planting soybeans in a field, then sprayed extra carbon dioxide from a giant tank. Based on the earlier research, they hoped the gas might bump yields as much as 30 percent under optimal growing conditions.
But when they harvested their soybeans, they got a rude surprise: the bump was only half as large. ''When we measured the yields, it was like, wait a minute -- this is not what we expected,'' said Elizabeth A. Ainsworth, a Department of Agriculture researcher who played a leading role in the work.
When they grew the soybeans in the sort of conditions expected to prevail in a future climate, with high temperatures or low water, the extra carbon dioxide could not fully offset the yield decline caused by those factors.
They also ran tests using corn, America's single most valuable crop and the basis for its meat production and its biofuel industry. While that crop was already known to be less responsive to carbon dioxide, a yield bump was still expected -- especially during droughts. The Illinois researchers got no bump.
Their work has contributed to a broader body of research suggesting that extra carbon dioxide does act as plant fertilizer, but that the benefits are less than previously believed -- and probably less than needed to avert food shortages. ''One of the things that we're starting to believe is that the positives of CO2 are unlikely to outweigh the negatives of the other factors,'' said Andrew D. B. Leakey, another of the Illinois researchers.
Other recent evidence suggests that longstanding assumptions about food production on a warming planet may have been too optimistic.
Two economists, Wolfram Schlenker of Columbia University and Michael J. Roberts of North Carolina State University, have pioneered ways to compare crop yields and natural temperature variability at a fine scale. Their work shows that when crops are subjected to temperatures above a certain threshold -- about 84 degrees for corn and 86 degrees for soybeans -- yields fall sharply.
This line of research suggests that in the type of climate predicted for the United States by the end of the century, with more scorching days in the growing season, yields of today's crop varieties could fall by 30 percent or more.
Though it has not yet happened in the United States, many important agricultural countries are already warming rapidly in the growing season, with average increases of several degrees. A few weeks ago, David B. Lobell of Stanford University published a paper with Dr. Schlenker suggesting that temperature increases in France, Russia, China and other countries were suppressing crop yields, adding to the pressures on the food system.
''I think there's been an under-recognition of just how sensitive crops are to heat, and how fast heat exposure is increasing,'' Dr. Lobell said.
Such research has provoked controversy. The findings go somewhat beyond those of a 2007 report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the United Nations body that episodically reviews climate science and advises governments.
That report found that while climate change was likely to pose severe challenges for agriculture in the tropics, it would probably be beneficial in some of the chillier regions of the Northern Hemisphere, and that the carbon dioxide effect should offset many problems.
In an interview at the University of Illinois, one of the leading scientists behind the work there, Stephen P. Long, sharply criticized the 2007 report, saying it had failed to sound a sufficient alarm. ''I felt it needed to be much more honest in saying this is our best guess at the moment, but there are probably huge errors in there,'' Dr. Long said. ''We're talking about the future food supply of the world.''
William E. Easterling, dean of earth sciences at Pennsylvania State University and a primary author of the 2007 report, said in an interview that the recent research had slightly altered his perspective. ''We have probably to some extent overestimated'' the benefits of carbon dioxide in computerized crop forecasts, he said. But he added that applying a ''correction factor'' would probably take care of the problem, and he doubted that the estimates in the report would change drastically as a result.
The 2007 report did point out a hole in the existing body of research: most forecasts had failed to consider several factors that could conceivably produce nasty surprises, like a projected rise in extreme weather events. No sooner had the report been published than food prices began rising, partly because of crop failures caused by just such extremes.
Oxfam, the international relief group, projected recently that food prices would more than double by 2030 from today's high levels, with climate change responsible for perhaps half the increase. As worries like that proliferate, some scientists are ready to go back to the drawing board regarding agriculture and climate change.
Dr. Rosenzweig, the NASA climate scientist, played a leading role in forming the old consensus. But in an interview at her office in Manhattan, she ticked off recent stresses on the food system and said they had led her to take a fresh look.
She is pulling together a global consortium of researchers whose goal will be to produce more detailed and realistic computer forecasts; she won high-level endorsement for the project at a recent meeting between British and United States officials. ''We absolutely have to get the science lined up to provide these answers,'' Dr. Rosenzweig said.
Promises Unkept
At the end of a dirt road in northeastern India, nestled between two streams, lies the remote village of Samhauta. Anand Kumar Singh, a farmer there, recently related a story that he could scarcely believe himself.
Last June, he planted 10 acres of a new variety of rice. On Aug. 23, the area was struck by a severe flood that submerged his field for 10 days. In years past, such a flood would have destroyed his crop. But the new variety sprang back to life, yielding a robust harvest.
''That was a miracle,'' Mr. Singh said.
The miracle was the product not of divine intervention but of technology -- an illustration of how far scientists may be able to go in helping farmers adapt to the problems that bedevil them.
''It's the best example in agriculture,'' said Julia Bailey-Serres, a researcher at the University of California, Riverside, who has done genetic work on the rice variety that Mr. Singh used. ''The submergence-tolerant rice essentially sits and waits out the flood.''
In the heyday of the Green Revolution, the 1960s, leaders like Dr. Borlaug founded an international network of research centers to focus on the world's major crops. The corn and wheat center in Mexico is one. The new rice variety that is exciting farmers in India is the product of another, the International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines.
Leading researchers say it is possible to create crop varieties that are more resistant to drought and flooding and that respond especially well to rising carbon dioxide. The scientists are less certain that crops can be made to withstand withering heat, though genetic engineering may eventually do the trick.
The flood-tolerant rice was created from an old strain grown in a small area of India, but decades of work were required to improve it. Money was so tight that even after the rice had been proven to survive floods for twice as long as previous varieties, distribution to farmers was not assured. Then an American charity, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, stepped in with a $20 million grant to finance final development and distribution of the rice in India and other countries. It may get into a million farmers' hands this year.
The Gateses, widely known for their work in public health, have also become leading backers of agricultural projects in recent years. ''I'm an optimist,'' Mr. Gates said in an interview. ''I think we can get crops that will mitigate many of our problems.''
The Gates Foundation has awarded $1.7 billion for agricultural projects since 2006, but even a charity as large as it is cannot solve humanity's food problems on its own. Governments have recognized that far more effort is needed on their part, but they have been slow to deliver.
In 2008 and 2009, in the midst of the political crises set off by food prices, the world's governments outbid one another to offer support. At a conference in L'Aquila, Italy, they pledged about $22 billion for agricultural development.
It later turned out, however, that no more than half of that was new money not previously committed to agriculture, and two years later, the extra financing has not fully materialized. ''It's a disappointment,'' Mr. Gates said.
The Obama administration has won high marks from antihunger advocates for focusing on the issue. President Obama pledged $3.5 billion at L'Aquila, more than any other country, and the United States has begun an ambitious initiative called Feed the Future to support agricultural development in 20 of the neediest countries.
So far, the administration has won $1.9 billion from Congress. Amid the budget struggles in Washington, it remains to be seen whether the United States will fully honor its pledge.
Perhaps the most hopeful sign nowadays is that poor countries themselves are starting to invest in agriculture in a serious way, as many did not do in the years when food was cheap.
In Africa, largely bypassed by the Green Revolution but with enormous potential, a dozen countries are on the verge of fulfilling a promise to devote 10 percent of their budgets to farm development, up from 5 percent or less.
''In my country, every penny counts,'' Agnes Kalibata, the agriculture minister of Rwanda, said in an interview. With difficulty, Rwanda has met the 10 percent pledge, and she cited a terracing project in the country's highlands that has raised potato yields by 600 percent for some farmers.
Yet the leading agricultural experts say that poor countries cannot solve the problems by themselves. The United Nations recently projected that global population would hit 10 billion by the end of the century, 3 billion more than today. Coupled with the demand for diets richer in protein, the projections mean that food production may need to double by later in the century.
Unlike in the past, that demand must somehow be met on a planet where little new land is available for farming, where water supplies are tightening, where the temperature is rising, where the weather has become erratic and where the food system is already showing serious signs of instability.
''We've doubled the world's food production several times before in history, and now we have to do it one more time,'' said Jonathan A. Foley, a researcher at the University of Minnesota. ''The last doubling is the hardest. It is possible, but it's not going to be easy.''
Temperature Rising: Articles in this series are focusing on central arguments in the climate debate and examining evidence for global warming and its consequences.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Selecting wheat plants for further breeding to resist drought and pests at a research center in Mexico. (A1)
Researchers study crop traits, like drought and disease resistance, at the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center in Mexico, but financing for such work is lacking.
Farmers toured wheat fields at the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center. The Yaqui Valley of northwestern Mexico was the original home of the broad movement known as the Green Revolution.
Worldwide, cities like fast-growing Hermosillo, Mexico, are increasingly competing with farmers for water. The city is building an aqueduct to nearby mountains to capture water that the area's farmers see as theirs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)
A family gathered agricultural waste in the village of Samhauta, in a rice-growing region of northeastern India. Farmers in many countries face rising difficulties: water shortages, flooding and higher temperatures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANJIT DAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) CHART: After decades in which the number of hungry people fell, the count has been rising sharply, partly because of recent increases in food prices. (Sources: F.A.O.
World Bank) (A1)
GRAPHIC: A Food System Under Strain: The Green Revolution that began in the 1940s raised global food output by introducing improved crop varieties and fertilizer to millions of farmers. But more innovation may be needed to feed a growing world population. (Sources: Chad Monfreda, Arizona State Univ., Navin Ramankutty, McGill Univ., and Jonathan Foley, Univ. of Minnesota (harvested land)
International Trade Center (net imports)
Food and Agriculture Organization (irrigation, production, prices)
 U.N. (population)) (GRAPHIC BY JONATHAN CORUM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); DROUGHT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (85%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (85%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); AGRONOMY (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (78%); WEATHER (74%); FERTILIZERS (72%); FOOD PRICES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); RICE MARKETS (70%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (69%); POPULATION GROWTH (67%); RIOTS (63%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MAIZE & WHEAT IMPROVEMENT CENTER (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); YEMEN (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



178 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2074 words

HEADLINE: Modern Is Modern Is ...

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO
WE want our great artists and writers to be one thing or the other: saints or sinners, angels or devils. Either way, they should be heroes, with decisive achievements and expansive souls.
Gertrude Stein, one of America's greatest writers, made every effort to fill the bill, first through her work, then through her life. Whether she comes down on the saint or sinner side, though, has long been a question. And it's being raised again by two museum exhibitions in this city, across the Bay from where Stein grew up, in Oakland. Both suggest that, ''Rose is a rose is a rose'' aside, we still don't know Stein very well.
In the eight years between 1903 and 1911, when she was in her late 20s and early 30s, she wrote her masterpiece, ''The Making of Americans,'' the first major modern experimental novel in English, predating by a decade the mature work of James Joyce and Virginia Woolf and offering an analog to Cubism. 
The book is huge, almost a thousand printed pages. She wrote it out in longhand, making no revisions, usually working through the night, alone. And she wrote in a language no one had ever read before. It was in plain English, but rich with moral weight and haunted emotion, and conventional up to a point, then not. Eventually it lifts off from the syntax and logic we know, and all traces of narrative -- names, places, events -- drop away.
Forward direction ends; time stops, or rather freezes in an eternal present where nothing new happens because everything is happening all the time.
Stein was trying to create eternity -- ''the everlasting,'' she called it -- in prose. And given the demands the book makes on a reader's attention, she, in a way, succeeded. ''The Making of Americans'' has a reputation for being unreadable, which it isn't, though its difficulties have to be experienced to be believed, and its greatness has to be believed in for reading to continue.
Stein couldn't find a publisher for the book until 1925, when she was over 50, by which time she had written many other things, become an art collector in Paris and found a life partner. ''The Making of Americans'' clinched her high reputation in elite literary circles. But hungry for fame, she now wanted more of it, and of a different, wider kind. So she shifted out of vanguard mode, turned on the charm and produced ''The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas.''
Written under the name of her longtime lover, ''Autobiography'' is a book-length advertisement for Stein herself as she wanted the world to see her: not only as a genius-writer, but also as the primary shaper of early Modernism in Paris and as a pioneer of a gay sensibility.
The book took just weeks to turn out, and it's a breeze to read. In Alice's voice Stein name-drops, dishes, fabricates (''God, what a liar she is,'' her older brother, Leo, fumed) and self-promotes with a gee-whiz American wit of a kind Andy Warhol would later perfect. In the end it's all a performance, but one that works.
The book became a best seller in the United States, the land to which Stein, after 30 years in Europe, maintained a vehemently patriotic attachment. And she became what she had long desperately wanted to be: a cultural hero, a pop star.
For better and for worse the pop-star Stein -- the one played by Kathy Bates in the new Woody Allen movie, ''Midnight in Paris'' -- is the one people have an easy time loving: the funny, feisty, bohemian mover and shaker who looks like a butch Buddha and is good for a quotation or two.
But if we accept that Stein as our hero, what do lose? We lose Stein the great writer. And we lose the truth about the history of which she was a part.
The two remarkable Stein-related exhibitions, just a few blocks apart, try to restore some of that truth by approaching her from two angles: as an art patron in one case, and as a social personality in the other. Both shows seriously question Stein's own solitary-genius account of herself in these roles.
Of the two ''The Steins Collect: Matisse, Picasso and the Parisian Avant-Garde'' at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art is by far the more spectacular visually, but narrower in theme. Here we meet Stein the art entrepreneur in Paris as expected, except that she is by no means alone. A year before she arrived in 1903, Leo was already there and acquiring Cezanne and Renoirs, and he let her tag along. Soon they began to buy together -- the show in part reconstructs their collection -- with Leo often taking the lead in decisions. And there were other Steins on hand. An older brother, Michael, and his wife, Sarah, lived nearby and were also buying, in particular Matisse, with whom they became friends.
In short, the show demonstrates that Gertrude Stein was not, as she would ask the world to believe, the single-handed shaper of new art. Artists she patronized later on her own were pretty bad, bush-league Surrealists mostly. But in the early days she did something right: she put her cards on Picasso at the dangerous, critical moment when he was moving into Cubism.
He and she had formed a close friendship, one that produced, among other things, his famous portrait of her, in which she leans forward like some grave genderless deity receiving a confidence. (The painting is on loan from the Met, where the show will appear next year.) The path from this point to Cubism was relatively short, and one that Leo did not want to go down. An aspiring figurative painter of a conservative bent, he found Picasso's increased fracturing of forms enraging.
Gertrude had precisely the opposite take: For her, Cubism was an exhilaration, a vindication, a learning tool. It was destructive, and subversive in a way she understood. It shattered conventions of realism and beauty, and, with its cutting up and rearranging of ordinary things to create multiple perspectives, it altered perceptions of time and space. These were effects she was trying to achieve in writing.
If her loyalty to Picasso at this juncture had ulterior motives -- her appreciation of art usually did -- it still established her as a significant force in Paris Modernism.
Her allegiance also contributed to a rancorous and permanent break with Leo, who moved out of 27 Rue de Fleurus, though there were other factors in the rift, which was permanent. Gertrude was having some enviable success with her writing, which Leo despised. And Alice Toklas had moved in as Gertrude's lover.
The exhibition called ''Seeing Gertrude Stein: Five Stories'' at the Contemporary Jewish Museum, focuses on the relationship of the two women, and takes another step in dispelling the stand-alone-genius Stein myth by bringing Toklas fully into the picture.
The nuanced archival display begins with a wide range of photographs of the young Gertrude (she rarely spoke about her childhood); the undergraduate at what is now Radcliffe (where she studied psychology with William James); and the medical student at Johns Hopkins, where she specialized in nervous diseases of women, but left before getting her degree.
There is evidence that Stein had a history of depression. Being brainy, bulky and gay must have made her feel like a misfit pretty much everywhere she went. And writing, which she had begun to do, can be a lonely occupation, particularly if you're inventing a mode that gives you little hope of readers. ''I write for myself and strangers'' is a repeated refrain in ''The Making of Americans,'' which was composed in part before Stein and Toklas met.
The meeting was in 1907, when Toklas, a San Francisco native, was visiting Europe. The women began a partnership that became a celebrity marriage. It was also, in many ways, a collaboration.
Toklas was the one who cut Stein's hair short, who fashioned the Stein ''look,'' a kind of theatrical creation. When Stein wrote using Toklas's name, it was because their lives really were, in essential features, of a piece.
Stein and Toklas have, of course, been gay inspirations for generations. They were, within the era's conventions, astonishingly forthright about their relationship. They were often photographed together at home, playing out gender roles, Stein in corduroys, Toklas in floral prints. Many of their friends were gay. ''We are surrounded by homosexuals; they do all the good things in the arts,'' Stein wrote to a friend.
The homosexuals she spoke of, though -- and admired and collaborated with -- were almost all male. Apart from Alice women had a scant presence in her life. In part the reasons were practical. Stein was always on the alert for people who could be helpful to her, particularly in advancing her career, and almost all those people in power to do so, in that era, were men.
This bias toward male authority was part of a deeply conservative streak in Stein's character, one that manifested itself in many ways, some of them perilous. In her 2007 book ''Two Lives: Gertrude and Alice,'' the writer Janet Malcolm documented the bizarre lives that Stein and Toklas, both Jews, lived in occupied France during World War II, when they maintained friendships with men who had close ties to the Vichy government or were anti-Semitic Nazi collaborators.
It's possible that the women knew little or nothing about such links; certainly neither ever made a point, before or during the war, of acknowledging they were Jewish. But what is one to make of Stein's alleged approval of Francisco Franco? Or her championing of the Vichy leader Marshall Petain, whose speeches she agreed to translate? Or her oddly neutral reaction on learning about the Nazi death camps? Or for that matter, a lifelong show of American patriotism that feels over-insistent and knee-jerk, as if she were picking a fight.
The Contemporary Jewish Museum show addresses this briefly in wall text, but it's an aspect of Stein's character that demands further study. Her wartime denial may simply have been driven by fear, which drives even strong-minded people to otherwise unaccountable thinking. And Stein, for all her public bravado, was well acquainted with fear. References to it saturate ''The Making of Americans.'' And she addresses it in her very last work, her libretto for Virgil Thomson's opera ''The Mother of Us All,'' about the suffragist Susan B. Anthony, where the heroine sings: ''Men have kind hearts when they're not afraid but they are afraid, afraid, afraid.''
So what, in the end, are we left with in Stein? Neither a saint nor a sinner, but many things in between. A culture-broker who did less than she claimed but still did a lot. A woman who made lesbian love an acceptable fixture of populist lore, but who chose men for company. A nationalistic American who gave fascism a pass.
Interestingly, Warhol presents certain similar challenges to philosophical orthodoxy. He was, after all, a portraitist at one time or another to political, social and economic fascists of every stripe. Like Stein, he also wore his queerness like a badge, though he didn't necessarily assume that it came with responsibilities.
For many artists Warhol is a hero of a specific kind: a model of moral ambiguity, of values and attitudes that cannot be clearly defined, and so can't be pinned down and dismissed as a product of one particular viewpoint in a particular time, and so consigned to the past.
Perhaps the same can be said of Stein. Ambiguity -- moral, temporal -- is certainly the very substance of ''The Making of Americans,'' her great lonesome novel. It is the work that Stein's pop-star persona has distracted us from, that is as experimental now as when it was written; that hardly anyone reads; that offers both Stein and her readers a way to live; that I've been reading for years, and will continue reading, and will never finish.
Correction: June 12, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about Gertrude Stein and Modernism had incomplete credit information with some picture captions. The credit for Picasso's ''Head of a Sleeping Woman'' is: Museum of Modern Art/Scala, Art Resource, Estate of Pablo Picasso/Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. The credit for Picasso's portrait of Stein is: Metropolitan Museum of Art, bequest of Gertrude Stein, 1946, Estate of Pablo Picasso/Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. And the credit for the photograph of Stein and Alice B. Toklas is: Courtesy of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, Man Ray Trust/Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York/ADAGP, Paris.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gertrude Stein, in a Man Ray portrait at left, was a shaper of Modernism. Above, Picasso's ''Head of a Sleeping Woman (Study for Nude with Drapery),'' which was once owned by Stein. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MUSEUM OF MODERN ART/SCALA, ART RESOURCE
BELOW, THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, MAN RAY TRUST/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK, ADAGP) (AR1)
From top, Alice B. Toklas, left, and Gertrude Stein, shot in 1926 by Man Ray in their Paris home
Picasso's ''Gertrude Stein'' (1906-7), part of the Met's collection, is on display at ''The Steins Collect: Matisse, Picasso and the Parisian Avant-Garde,'' at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF THE SAN FRANCISCO MUSEUM OF MODERN ART
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, BEQUEST OF GERTRUDE STEIN, 1946) (AR22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ART COLLECTING (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (66%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



179 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: In Mountain View, 2 Contrasting Economic Worlds Intersect

BYLINE: By HADLEY ROBINSON. 
hrobinson@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
At the Google campus on the outskirts of Mountain View, employees sip lattes under brightly colored umbrellas as others pass on company bicycles, laptops secured in the front baskets. This year the company will add substantially to its work force of more than 5,000 in that Silicon Valley city, and it has just leased nine acres to expand its campus.
But closer to downtown, Carolina Rivera finds herself in a decidedly less attractive environment -- the crowded office of the Community Services Agency, where she is looking for a job. She has three children to support and has not found anything since her hours at an organic-food factory were reduced. Those like Mrs. Rivera find life difficult in Mountain View: the competition for work is fierce, housing is expensive and cuts in government services are pending as the city tries to balance its budget.
Mountain View, home to technology kingpins like Google, LinkedIn and Symantec, illustrates the disconnect between the current technology boom and the daily economic realities of many in Silicon Valley. The five biggest tech companies with headquarters in town are valued at more than $200 billion, but Mountain View, with a population of 74,000, faces a $2.6 million budget gap and has an unemployment rate of 7.7 percent. 
''We really are seeing two very different economies emerging,'' said Emmett Carson, chief executive of the Silicon Valley Community Foundation. ''We have the Google campus; they're expanding, they're adding employees, they're doing very well financially. But the nonprofit sector and local government have been stretched to the maximum.''
Like many other local governments, Mountain View's has struggled with rising costs for city employee health care and retirement. Tax collections have picked up a bit from the depths of the recession, but because Internet companies generally do not produce products that are subject to local sales taxes, the Web 2.0 boom has not provided a direct financial boost to the city.
That is not to say that Mountain View does not benefit from the presence of Google and other big tech companies. Google just signed a 52-year, $30 million lease on nine acres of city property to expand its campus, and agreed to make the payment up front. City officials are leaning toward putting that money into a trust (partly as a reserve in the event that some of it has to be paid back if Google changes its plans) and using only the interest earned -- about $1 million in the next fiscal year -- to help close the budget gap.
Jac Siegel, mayor of Mountain View, said that he meets with Google representatives regularly and that the company recently gave $1 million to the local school district. ''That was a nice thing to do,'' Mr. Siegel said.
Ellis Berns, the city's economic development manager, said: ''We're proud of the fact that they're here. I think it adds a certain level of excitement to the community to have dynamic innovative companies.''
Dan Hoffman, Google's director of real estate and workplace services, wrote in an e-mail: ''2011 will be our biggest hiring year in company history and we're excited to continue growing in Mountain View. Over the years, we've worked closely with the city and we look forward to continuing this relationship for many years to come.''
Still, Mayor Siegel is not ready to declare the Internet giant a model corporate citizen. ''I've suggested -- and I'm not afraid to say this on the record -- that their generosity to us is underwhelming in terms of what they do for our city.''
Part of the problem is that corporate campuses, with their own cafeterias, day care centers and other employee perks, are not always very integrated into the surrounding community.
''The industry doesn't create a lot of demand for services,'' said Terry Christensen, a professor at San Jose State University who specializes in Silicon Valley politics. ''The Google campus, they pay their taxes, but their workers don't necessarily use parks, police and other traditional services, so you get a disconnect between the businesses themselves and the people who work in them.''
Just as important, many local residents are simply not in the talent pool for high-tech jobs. The people looking for work at the Community Services Agency have skills in other areas, like housecleaning, gardening and washing dishes, and those jobs are scarce.
The agency's executive director, Tom Myers, grew up in Mountain View, across the street from the apricot orchards that used to dominate the area. His agency was set up in 1957 to help poor seasonal farm workers.
Mr. Myers saw an increase in need from 2006 to 2010. Though there has been a slight decline this year, the agency still has 180 people taking food from its shelves each day, and has provided homeless services to more than 300 people over the past nine months.
''It's like there's two different worlds: those able to access employment and benefits of the tech sector, and those doing jobs not connected to it,'' Mr. Myers said.
The city government and its employees are in some respects caught in the middle.
On the one hand, the tech business, which in addition to the Internet giants includes thousands of start-ups and small businesses, has put Mountain View in a better place than most other Bay Area cities. Median household income is almost $87,000, and the NASA Ames Research Center and the Shoreline Amphitheatre add diversity to the city's economic base.
But city workers are still being asked to give back. John Miguel, president of the Mountain View firefighters union, estimates that the concessions his group has agreed to -- further sharing of the cost of benefits, leaving three positions unfilled and reducing hours for a fire marshal position -- will save the city more than $500,000 in the next fiscal year.
''The city has told us things are tight,'' Mr. Miguel said. ''These are tough times. We're trying to help out.''
All the local unions are in talks with the city to try to save $1 million more. Otherwise, the city may resort to layoffs and elimination of some outreach programs.
''It is ironic that the businesses located there are thriving and the city is not,'' Professor Christensen said.
In downtown Mountain View, which is dominated by restaurants, business seems to be bouncing back, and nobody is begging for money in the streets. But Mr. Myers cited the ''invisible poverty'' in the city.
''You have people living in poverty literally right next door to people making a lot of money,'' he said.
Dr. Carson of the Silicon Valley Community Foundation added: ''Those communities have few places to meet and experience each other. Once you are on one of these campuses, there's a different world. How do you get them to recognize they are the yin and yang of one community?''
Just because homeless people are not visible, doesn't mean they are not there, he said.
''People on the margin are really smart,'' Dr. Carson said. ''If you become a problem to the vibrant business area, it becomes uncomfortable. They migrate to other places because they're looking for work.''
And it can take a lot of work to live in Mountain View, especially if you must work for the minimum wage.
The median single-family home in Mountain View cost about $890,000 as of May. And Mr. Myers said two-bedroom apartments rent for well over $1,500 a month.
''You can't make it on a wait-staff salary,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The two sides of Mountain View: workers crowding a Caltrain platform and a woman cloaked in plastic on another platform. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MAYORS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); CHILDREN (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); SALES TAX (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); WEB 2 (62%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); SYMANTEC CORP (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); SYMC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



180 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; ECONOMIC OMENS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: May 29-June 4

 BODY:
THE NEWS The Chinese economy showed signs of slowing after two years of torrid growth, as manufacturers' backlogs shortened and auto sales unexpectedly stalled.
BEHIND THE NEWS Beijing, worried about inflation, has been tapping the monetary-policy brakes in recent months, so a little slowdown could be seen as a good thing. But any loss of momentum in the world economy poses a danger to Europe and the United States, where jobs, not prices, are the main concern. Some analysts say China may not be able to resume such rapid growth once inflation is tamed. 
THE NEWS Housing prices in the United States have slumped to new post-bubble lows, down by one-third from the 2006 peak, according to the widely followed Case-Shiller Home Price Index.
BEHIND THE NEWS Though the figures (for March, the latest available) prompted little optimism for the near future, analysts said they thought housing was near a bottom and could turn up again soon. Even with a huge number of unsold houses (new and foreclosed) in some areas, analysts said there remained a great deal of pent-up demand, held back mainly by tightened credit.
THE NEWS A new financial rescue package for Greece took shape, offering up to 60 billion euros ($86 billion) in new loans in exchange for steps to speed up privatization and tax collection.
BEHIND THE NEWS Greece's fellow euro countries are eager to prevent a default that would undermine other shaky member nations like Ireland and Portugal. The deal would turn on private holders of Greek debts agreeing to roll them over -- and forestall a restructuring that would force losses on them. The deal would also depend on greater government austerity in an economy already contracting from earlier cuts.
THE NEWS The pace of job growth in the American economy slowed to a crawl in May, with just 54,000 nonfarm jobs added, far too few even to keep up with population growth. The unemployment rate ticked up to 9.1 percent.
BEHIND THE NEWS Some of the falloff was traceable to transient factors like bad weather and higher fuel prices, but economists said it also resulted from the waning of federal stimulus programs and the political push for austerity at all levels of government. ''The economy clearly just hit a brick wall,'' said Paul Ashworth, chief United States economist at Capital Economics.
THE NEWS After rallying briskly on Tuesday following the holiday weekend, the major stock indexes retreated sharply, with the Dow Jones industrial average losing 2.3 percent of its value for the week.
BEHIND THE NEWS Investors were initially cheered by the hopeful signs from Europe and took the housing report in stride. But their mood was soured by the gathering gloom on the employment front and the political deadlock in Washington over fiscal policy, with a dire warning from Moody's that the nation's credit rating would be cut if a debt-limit deal is not struck soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EURO (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); FORECLOSURE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); MONETARY POLICY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); EUROPE (93%); GREECE (90%); PORTUGAL (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



181 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths AQUINO, MAITE

 BODY:
AQUINO--Maite. The lawyers and staff of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP mourn the loss of our partner Maite Aquino. Maite was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2009 and died in New York, NY on June 4. She was 42 years old. 
We will miss her very much. Her husband, Nick Rudenstine, and her beautiful daughters, Ines and Aurelia, will always be members of our family. Maite spent her entire career at Sullivan & Cromwell, beginning as a summer associate in 1993 and joining the firm as a first year associate in 1994 following her graduation from New York University School of Law. She was elected to the partnership in the Fall of 2002. A leading member of our litigation group, she built a remarkable career, spanning from complex disputes involving antitrust claims to bet-the-company intellectual property trials. In the wake of the recent financial crisis, Maite, a recognized star in securities litigation, carved a unique practice representing international financial institutions facing global scrutiny before the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Justice, the Financial Services Authority and the United States Congress. Maite's ability to see the big-picture and navigate through complex, interlocking investigations, regulatory proceedings and related civil litigation led to superlatives from dedicated clients who described her in industry review publications as a "terrific, tireless lawyer who gets right to the heart of an issue" with her "excellent instincts and persuasive arguments." Maite also devoted thousands of hours to pro bono service to persons in need, receiving a Thurgood Marshall Award for her substantial contributions of time and legal expertise. We are blessed to have shared the past eighteen years with Maite. A consummate lawyer, to us, she has been so very much more. A loyal and giving friend, a trailblazer, a touchstone, a role model and a mentor, she endowed us with her style, her grace, her compassion and her wit. We share our profound loss with the many and diverse communities that loved and respected her.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUMMER LAW ASSOCIATES (78%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PRO BONO LAW (73%); BREAST CANCER (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%)

COMPANY: SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (95%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



182 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths GERTLER, MAYNARD

 BODY:
GERTLER--Maynard. At 94, Emmanuel Maynard Gertler, devoted husband, father of five, scholar and university teacher, publisher, farmer, defender of Canadian unity, public servant, civil libertarian, peace and human rights advocate, environmentalist, and athlete, passed away in Montreal on April 19, 2011. He leaves behind his saddened and proud family: his wife of 68 years, Ann Straus Gertler (a granddaughter of Nathan Straus, philanthropist, public servant and merchant, who was co-owner of R.H. Macy & Company, and of the Abraham and Straus department store -- and grandniece of famed New York photographer and advocate of modern art, Alfred Stieglitz), his sons Michael, Alfred, Franklin, Edward, and their spouses, nine grandchildren, one great-grandson and many beloved nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. He was predeceased by his son, Jeffrey Lee Gertler (died 2005), by his sister Anna Berger and his brother Leonard Gertler, and by his parents Hyman and Gertrude (Slover) Gertler. 
Maynard was Research Director and then President of the New York documentary film company, The World Today, and taught economics at NYU. He served in the U.S. Army and in several wartime intelligence and economic warfare agencies under the Roosevelt Administration. Maynard and Ann were owner-operators of farms in Little Washington, VA, and Lancaster County, PA. Later, in the mid-1950s, he taught American government and economic history at Cambridge University, England. Returning to his home city of Montreal in 1958, with Ann he founded and ran Harvest House Publishers for nearly 40 years, bringing out books that celebrated thinkers such as Thoreau, Zola, Marcuse, and Myrdal, blazed new trails in planning and environmental conservation, built bridges of understanding between Canada's many peoples and debunked racial myths and narrow readings of history. At the same time, the family pursued pure seed production on farms in Picton and Williamstown, Ontario. He served as president of Amnesty International Canada, as vice-president of PEN Canada; and as a board member of the Raoul Wallenberg International Movement for Humanity. In 2002, his achievements were recognized with the Order of Canada (Canada's highest civilian honor) and the Queen's University Alumni Achievement Award. Private funeral and Interment were at Mount Royal Cemetery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); RETAILERS (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); ARMIES (54%); CEMETERIES (50%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (84%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



183 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, June 5th 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the June 5, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending May 21, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1217HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an appendectomy. 242IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on William E. Dodd, who became U.S. ambassador there in 1933. 337BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown) A memoir from the former Saturday Night Live star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 453DOES THE NOISE IN MY HEAD BOTHER YOU?, by Steven Tyler. (HarperCollins) The singer recounts the meteoric rise, fall and rise of Aerosmith over the last three decades. 512LIES THAT CHELSEA HANDLER TOLD ME, by Chelsea Handler, Glen Handler, Roy Handler and others. (Grand Central) Handler&#8217;s friends, family members and colleagues write about being victims of her practical jokes. 662SEAL TEAM SIX, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin&#39;s) An expert sniper and former member of the Navy Seals recounts his military training and missions, including the battle of Mogadishu in 1993. 71AREA 51, by Annie Jacobsen. (Little Brown) An account of the mysterious military installation, which the author contends is the home of secret espionage programs, not extraterrestrials. 8717UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 91WHERE&#39;S THE BIRTH CERTIFICATE?, by Jerome R. Corsi. (WND Books) An argument that President Obama is not a natural-born U.S. citizen. &#8224;101THE PSYCHOPATH TEST, by Jon Ronson. (Penguin Group) A look into a potential hoax in the scientific community spurs a journey into the world of psychopathy. 11917THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown) The story of a woman whose cancer cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 1284STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt) The actor charts his professional path, from teen idol to &#34;The West Wing.&#34; 13103FROM THIS MOMENT ON, by Shania Twain. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The country singer and songwriter writes of her hardscrabble origins and her rise to fame. 141ON CHINA, by Henry Kissinger. (Penguin Group) China and America are mutually dependent economic giants, Kissinger writes, but they need an overarching design of strategic partnership. 15153THE HEART AND THE FIST, by Eric Greitens. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt) A member of the Navy Seals describes his military deployments and his larger vision of public service.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell and Patrick Robinson. (Little, Brown)
17. LOST IN SHANGRI-LA, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (HarperCollins)
18. LIFE, by Keith Richards with James Fox. (Little, Brown)
19. EMPIRE OF THE SUMMER MOON, by S. C. Gwynne. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
20. IF YOU ASK ME, by Betty White. (Penguin Group)
21. MY LUCKY LIFE IN AND OUT OF SHOW BUSINESS, by Dick Van Dyke. (Crown)
22. BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Knopf Doubleday)
23. TO END ALL WARS, by Adam Hochschild. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
24. THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
25. MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. (Bloomsbury)
26. A SINGULAR WOMAN, by Janny Scott. (Penguin Group)
27. THE SOCIAL ANIMAL, by David Brooks. (Random House)
28. ---------- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. (HarperCollins)
29. TOO BIG TO FAIL, by Andrew Ross Sorkin. (Penguin Group)
30. DECISION POINTS, by George W. Bush. (Crown)
31. A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Knopf Doubleday)
32. WILLIAM AND CATHERINE, by Andrew Morton. (St. Martin&#39;s)
33. NOT DEAD AND NOT FOR SALE, by Scott Weiland with David Ritz. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
34. MESSENGER, by Jeni Stepanek with Larry Lindner. (Penguin Group)
35. THE BIG SHORT, by Michael Lewis. (Norton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); RUNNING (61%); ESPIONAGE (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); MILITARY TRAINING (60%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011



184 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, June 5th 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the June 5, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending May 21, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1217HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 232IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on the experiences of William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 317BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown) A memoir from the former Saturday Night Live star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 41AREA 51, by Annie Jacobsen. (Little Brown) An account of the mysterious military installation, which the author contends is the home of secret espionage programs, not extraterrestrials. 5717UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 652SEAL TEAM SIX, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin&#39;s) An expert sniper and former member of the Navy Seals recounts his military training and missions, including the battle of Mogadishu in 1993. 742LIES THAT CHELSEA HANDLER TOLD ME, by Chelsea Handler, Glen Handler, Roy Handler and others. (Grand Central) Handler&#8217;s friends, family members and colleagues write about being victims of her practical jokes. 863DOES THE NOISE IN MY HEAD BOTHER YOU?, by Steven Tyler with David Dalton. (HarperCollins) The singer and showman recounts the meteoric rise, fall and rise of Aerosmith over the last three decades. 91THE PSYCHOPATH TEST, by Jon Ronson. (Penguin Group) A look into a potential hoax in the scientific community spurs a journey into the world of psychopathy. 1084STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt) The actor charts his professional path, from teen idol to &#34;The West Wing.&#34; 111117THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown) The story of an African-American woman whose cancerous cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 1294LOST IN SHANGRI-LA, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (HarperCollins) After a jungle plane crash in the wilds of New Guinea in 1945, three survivors were caught between headhunters and enemy Japanese. 131MESSENGER, by Jeni Stepanek with Larry Lindner. (Penguin Group) A mother shares the life story of her son, Mattie, who died of a rare neuromuscular disease in 2004. 141A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Knopf Doubleday) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this addiction memoir contains numerous fabrications. 151WHERE&#39;S THE BIRTH CERTIFICATE?, by Jerome R. Corsi. (WND Books) An argument that President Obama is not a natural-born U.S. citizen. 16103FROM THIS MOMENT ON, by Shania Twain. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The country singer and songwriter writes of her hardscrabble origins and her rise to fame. 17124LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Little, Brown) The only survivor of a Navy Seals operation in northern Afghanistan describes the battle, his comrades and his courageous escape. 181417MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. (Bloomsbury) The comedian&#8217;s memoir of one-night stands. 191TOO BIG TO FAIL, by Andrew Ross Sorkin. (Penguin Group) The 2008 financial implosion on Wall Street and in Washington, by a New York Times business columnist. 201917---------- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. (HarperCollins) A coming-of-age memoir organized around the musings, purveyed on Twitter, of the author&#8217;s father. 212117THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another. 221ON CHINA, by Henry Kissinger. (Penguin Group) China and America are mutually dependent economic giants, Kissinger writes, but they need an overarching design of strategic partnership. 23133MY LUCKY LIFE IN AND OUT OF SHOW BUSINESS, by Dick Van Dyke. (Crown) A memoir by the television and movie performer, who calls himself &#34;a simple song-and-dance man.&#34; 24153IF YOU ASK ME, by Betty White. (Penguin Group) The seven-time Emmy winner reflects on her seven-decade career in Hollywood. 251EMPIRE OF THE SUMMER MOON, by S. C. Gwynne. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The story of Quanah Parker, the last and greatest chief of the Comanches.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
26. SAME KIND OF DIFFERENT AS ME, by Ron Hall and Denver Moore with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson)
27. THE BOY WHO CAME BACK FROM HEAVEN, by Kevin and Alex Malarkey. (Tyndale)
28. THE BIG SHORT, by Michael Lewis. (Norton)
29. THE WIZARD OF LIES, by Diana B. Henriques. (Henry Holt)
30. DECISION POINTS, by George W. Bush. (Crown)
31. ARE YOU THERE, VODKA? IT&#8217;S ME, CHELSEA, by Chelsea Handler. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
32. THE SOCIAL ANIMAL, by David Brooks. (Random House)
33. ALL THAT IS BITTER AND SWEET, by Ashley Judd with Maryanne Vollers. (Random House)
34. TO END ALL WARS, by Adam Hochschild. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
35. BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Knopf Doubleday)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (69%); ESPIONAGE (63%); ARMED FORCES (63%); MILITARY TRAINING (63%); RUNNING (62%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011



185 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, June 5th 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the June 5, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending May 21, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList142IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $26.) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazi Party concentrates on William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 223DOES THE NOISE IN MY HEAD BOTHER YOU?, by Steven Tyler with David Dalton. (Ecco, $27.99.) The singer and showman recounts the rise, fall and rise of Aerosmith. 312LIES THAT CHELSEA HANDLER TOLD ME, by Chelsea Handler, Glen Handler, Roy Handler and others. (Grand Central, $24.99.) Handler&#8217;s friends, family members and colleagues write about being victims of her practical jokes. 462SEAL TEAM SIX, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin&#39;s, $26.99.) An expert sniper and former member of the Navy Seals recounts his military training and missions, including the battle of Mogadishu in 1993. 537BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown, $26.99.) A memoir from the creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 61WHERE&#39;S THE BIRTH CERTIFICATE?, by Jerome R. Corsi. (WND, $25.95.) An argument that President Obama is not a natural-born U.S. citizen. &#8224;71AREA 51, by Annie Jacobsen. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An account of the mysterious military installation, which the author contends is the home of secret espionage programs. 8527UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 974STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt, $26.) The actor charts his professional path. 10103THE HEART AND THE FIST, by Eric Greitens. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $27.) A Navy Seal describes his military deployments and his larger vision of public service. 11*1THE PSYCHOPATH TEST, by Jon Ronson. (Riverhead, $25.95.) A look into a potential hoax in the scientific community spurs a journey into the world of psychopathy. 121ON CHINA, by Henry Kissinger. (Penguin Press, $36.) China and America are mutually dependent economic giants, Kissinger writes, but they need a design of partnership. 1393FROM THIS MOMENT ON, by Shania Twain. (Atria, $26.99.) The country singer and songwriter writes of her hard-scrabble origins and her rise to fame. 1483IF YOU ASK ME, by Betty White. (Putnam, $25.95.) The seven-time Emmy winner reflects on her career. 151TO END ALL WARS, by Adam Hochschild. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $28.) This account of World War I examines losses in the ranks and the cause of dissenters.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. MY LUCKY LIFE IN AND OUT OF SHOW BUSINESS, by Dick Van Dyke. (Crown Archetype)
17. WILLIAM AND CATHERINE, by Andrew Morton. (St. Martin&#39;s)
18. A SINGULAR WOMAN, by Janny Scott. (Riverhead)
19. NOT DEAD AND NOT FOR SALE, by Scott Weiland with David Ritz. (Scribner)
20. SHE WALKS IN BEAUTY, selected and introduced by Caroline Kennedy. (Voice/Hyperion)
21. THE SOCIAL ANIMAL, by David Brooks. (Random House)
22. LOST IN SHANGRI-LA, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (Harper)
23. THE NOTES, by Ronald Reagan. Edited by Douglas Brinkley. (HarperCollins)
24. THIS IS A BOOK, by Demetri Martin. (Grand Central)
25. THE CAPTAIN, by Ian O&#39;Connor. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
26. STAN MUSIAL, by George Vecsey. (ESPN)
27. DECISION POINTS, by George W. Bush. (Crown)
28. UNTIL TUESDAY, by Luis Carlos Montalvan with Bret Witter. (Hyperion)
29. ---------- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. (It Books/HarperCollins)
30. PHYSICS OF THE FUTURE, by Michio Kaku. (Doubleday)
31. ALL THAT IS BITTER AND SWEET, by Ashley Judd with Maryanne Vollers. (Ballantine)
32. MOONWALKING WITH EINSTEIN, by Joshua Foer. (Penguin Press)
33. THE EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES, by Siddhartha Mukherjee. (Scribner)
34. THE WIZARD OF LIES, by Diana B. Henriques. (Times Books/Holt)
35. THE FILTER BUBBLE, by Eli Pariser. (Penguin Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); RUNNING (64%); MILITARY TRAINING (63%); ESPIONAGE (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (52%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (75%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011



186 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2181 words

HEADLINE: Defiant Showman Demands His 'Wow'

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
MONTREAL -- With a wolfish grin, mangled pinky and a bald head shaped like a bullet, Guy Laliberte, a co-founder and the owner of Cirque du Soleil, looks like a man with a plan for world domination. Appearances, in this case, do not deceive.
''There are three capitals of entertainment in the world: Las Vegas, New York and London,'' announces Mr. Laliberte, the only person smoking in the vast campus here where two-fifths of his 5,000 employees work. ''So far the only one I truly conquered is Vegas. New York and London are still on my checklist.''
Mr. Laliberte, whose left hand was injured while cooking, is being modest, since he is hardly a newcomer to New York, where he's put on 19 shows, or London, where he's done 18, since Cirque's founding in the early 1980s. He didn't make the leap from accordion-playing street performer to one of the world's most influential and powerful entertainment impresarios by setting his sights low. 
Between now and the end of the year Cirque will open three humongous new productions. ''Michael Jackson: The Immortal World Tour,'' which has already taken in a $50 million advance, begins touring in October in Montreal. ''Iris,'' an action-packed fantasy that imagines an alternative history of the movies, is to be Cirque's first permanent show in Los Angeles.
The highest-stakes gamble, however, may be ''Zarkana,'' which opens a four-month run at Radio City Music Hall this week. While it will go on to Madrid and Moscow -- where it will play the Kremlin -- it's no accident that ''Zarkana'' starts in New York, the site of what Mr. Laliberte admits is the company's first real flop. That was ''Banana Shpeel,'' which opened and closed in an abortive run last year. It began as an attempt to merge the circus and musical theater, telling the story of a devilish producer who promises a clown fame and fortune. By the time the show reached New York, the company had lost confidence in the concept, fired the composer, cut songs and retreated to more traditional Cirque acrobatics, albeit on a smaller scale.
Mr. Laliberte, who owns an island, a boat and seven homes, was hard to reach during some of the troubles; he was orbiting Earth, after paying $35 million to be the seventh space tourist, giving him one of the greatest excuses in the history of show business failure. ''I kept hearing there are too many songs, too much like a Broadway show,'' said the ''Shpeel'' director, David Shiner. ''Guy wanted to do something different. But he was in space.''
Mr. Laliberte concedes the point and takes responsibility for the rare failure, but it also drove him back to New York, where he hopes ''Zarkana'' will be a summer staple at Radio City. ''We're returning like men,'' he says, to ''face the critics who killed us face to face.''
The message is defiant, but it's delivered in an oddly calm, almost dispassionate voice. Mr. Laliberte has a reputation for fierceness, but despite some forceful arm waving he maintains a poised, business-like demeanor. Philippe Decoufle, the director of ''Iris,'' describes him as a ''very nice bulldozer.''
In aiming ''Zarkana'' for a run in Manhattan, Cirque du Soleil is inching closer to the heart of the traditional theater world. By numbers alone it's already a mighty rival; Cirque's 22 current productions, including its standing Las Vegas shows and the touring big-top productions, annually sell about as many tickets as all Broadway shows combined.
The permanent shows typically cost between $40 million and $50 million, but the business model varies far more for the big-top productions that are pumped out every two years with assembly-line precision. They begin in Canada, move to the United States and then travel the world. (Cirque has touched every continent except Antarctica.) Total revenue, including tickets and merchandise, is expected to pass $1 billion for the first time next year.
Cirque has redefined one of the world's oldest art forms. Out with the animals and the ringmaster in a red coat; in with New Agey world music, big-budget spectacle, world-class athletes and poetic clowns in swirls of caked-on makeup. The company's influence ranges widely, from the special effects in ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark,'' which employs former Cirque employees, to the Metropolitan Opera, where the director Robert Lepage used technology he developed while with Cirque. It even extends to the language: eyes rolled when Cirque du Soleil sued a rival American company, Cirque Dreams, for using a common word in its name. (Cirque du Soleil lost the lawsuit.) But is there any mystery why so many Anglophone companies choose to use the word Cirque?
Mr. Laliberte's greatest triumph, however, has been in Las Vegas. Like Disney did with Times Square, Cirque helped remake the strip into a family-friendly destination. Seven permanent shows have opened there in 17 years, and despite bad reviews, economic downturns and other setbacks of live performance not one has closed.
Dominic Champagne, who has directed two of these shows, ''Love'' and ''Zumanity,'' said you could put almost anything ''in a jar, put it onstage, call it Cirque du Soleil and it would be a hit.''
As Cirque has transformed from an arty alternative to traditional big-top circus into what it is today, some suggest it has become emotionally cold and risk-averse. ''If Cirque is going to succeed in New York, they need to understand story -- and they don't,'' said Richard Crawford, an actor currently in ''War Horse'' who was fired from ''Banana Shpeel'' last year. ''They have no idea about Aristotelean plotting or character. It's not in their heart. They come from street performers, and now they are street performance with laser beams and millions of dollars.''
The problem is that audiences have come to expect a certain scale from Cirque, and when they don't get it, as in the case of ''Shpeel,'' they may be disappointed. It's a nagging worry for Mr. Laliberte too. ''Are we condemned to only doing big acrobatic shows?'' he says, leaning forward with a grave look. ''Creatively we have the capacity to do much more. The answer is we can explore new stuff, but we need to give the public a bone to chew on.''
For one of the most influential producers in show business Mr. Laliberte keeps a surprisingly low profile in the news media and, pointedly, within Cirque. Analyzing his character is challenging since he has few close friends, and even his longtime associates say they hardly know him. In the wake of the demise of ''Banana Shpeel'' Cirque opened its doors to a reporter for a rare chance to talk to him and watch as he sat in on what the company calls a ''checkpoint'' -- basically a progress report for the boss -- for the Michael Jackson show.
The formula begins with the conviction that you need something novel in every show. ''Zumanity'' added an erotic edge; ''O'' turned the stage into a vast pool. After the concept is established, the team develops what it calls the acrobatic skeleton of generally 10 acts; 6 are imported (acrobat troupes hired from China and the like), and 4 are developed internally. As Cirque has brought in directors from theater, opera and film, the script has become more important. Pairing it with the acts is as tricky a part of creation of a Cirque show as the relationship between songs and the book of the musical. Sequence is critical.
''We need to consider two things: rhythm and height,'' Mr. Laliberte says. ''Is it a floor, mid-range or aerial act? You can't put three jugglers in a row or three aerialists in a row. Circus has much more highs and lows than in a play. You need your 'wow,' your tender moment and humor. We have our conventions.''
Wall-to-wall music, costumes and lighting work hard to create otherworldly designs that are an overwhelming mess of contradictions: nostalgic and futuristic, whimsical and melodramatic, sexy and asexual. There is just a hint of a plot. You can tease out themes. (''Saltimbanco'': immigration. ''Ovo'': biodiversity.) But why bother? What it adds up to is something defiantly vague and open to interpretation. ''You need to make an artistic product to be able to permit the audience to open their door,'' Mr. Laliberte says. ''If they want an esoteric door, there is that.''
But in working with the musical catalog of the King of Pop, more than acrobatics is on the line. So after the director Jamie King -- who has staged concert tours by Madonna and Britney Spears -- presented to Mr. Laliberte a slick video featuring choreography, designs in progress and deafeningly loud versions of ''Thriller,'' ''Beat It'' and other hits, the checkpoint grew silent. Dozens of artists and designers watched. With cigarette smoke swirling above his head, Mr. Laliberte's deadpan expression never shifted. Nor did his posture. After the presentation he finally interrupted the tense stillness and revealed his hand -- well, in part. ''Michael is not prominent enough,'' he said. ''I need to hear him. Make his voice stronger.''
The truth is, circus is Mr. Laliberte's third passion. His second is travel. His first is business. Within the Cirque empire he has been the major fund-raiser since the beginning; in 1983 he landed a $1.3 million grant from the provincial Quebec government to present a show as part of the celebration of the 450th anniversary of the discovery of Canada. At the time his company was a modest nonprofit that divvied up beers at the end of rehearsal in a rented gym. But his original presentation included a five-year plan with multiple shows. He was 24.
Cirque had its breakthrough in Los Angeles in 1987. ''Cirque Reinvente,'' staged by Guy Caron, was new for American audiences familiar with Ringling Brothers. It was dramatic, emotional, occasionally slow and highly theatrical. Disney made an offer to buy the company. So did Columbia Pictures. Mr. Laliberte turned them both down, insisting on creative control.
Mr. Caron left the company following a dispute over money, and eventually returned, but Cirque's history is riddled with power struggles that end with one survivor. ''I survived three putsches,'' Mr. Laliberte says with his usual swagger.
Cirque's golden age began, many say, when Franco Dragone, a coal miner's son who worked in commedia dell'arte, started directing in the late 1980s with ''Nouvelle Experience.'' Over a decade he staged eight shows (including the Las Vegas hits ''Mystere'' and ''O''), and his freewheeling style was rooted in the belief that performers work best when they aren't thinking. He would ask the acrobats to race around the stage until they were out of breath to prepare for rehearsal.
Steve Wynn, who first presented Cirque in Las Vegas, hired away Mr. Dragone and much of his design team in 1999 to make their own show. Mr. Laliberte was furious. ''I called up Steve Wynn and told him: 'You think you're buying the creative force of Cirque du Soleil. Be careful,' '' Mr. Laliberte says. ''Will I do business with Steve again? Probably not.''
Behind the scenes there was panic. ''There was a concern because we had a successful model and a question of could we do it without him,'' said Boris Verkhovsky, Cirque's director of performance. ''Guy said we can now be a great host for innovators and geniuses.''
Instead of finding a new artistic guru, Mr. Laliberte recruited directors from theater and film, injecting fresh ideas into the shows. By bringing in theater directors like Mr. Lepage, who had no experience with circus, and giving them bigger budgets than they had ever worked with, Cirque was taking a risk. For one thing, the chemistry of every show is different.
''At the start it was a team,'' Mr. Caron said. ''We all knew each other and were friends. So I could tell someone, 'This is terrible' and they could say, 'Go to hell,' and we'd be fine the next day. Now it's so big that the decisions take a long time to go from top to bottom.''
As the organization has grown, Mr. Laliberte has delegated more. But he knows he needs to stay on the planet for the start of ''Zarkana.'' ''The machine here is not one I always like, but there's a limit to what I can do,'' he says, flashing a lopsided smile and striking what might be the only note of insecurity in several hours of conversation. ''Look,'' he says, shifting into confidently matter-of fact mode. ''I am in the business of live or die by the public.''
Under the Tent: This is the first of two articles about the global empire of Cirque du Soleil and its reclusive impresario, Guy Laliberte. Next week: the creative journey of the company's biggest gamble, ''Zarkana,'' from Montreal to Orlando, Fla., to New York, where it opens this month at Radio City Music Hall.
Correction: June 19, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on June 5 about Guy Laliberte--, a co-founder and the owner of Cirque du Soleil, misstated the source of a $1.3 million grant to the company to present a show as part of the celebration of the 450th anniversary of the discovery of Canada. It was the provincial government of Quebec, not the Canadian government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Guy Laliberte, the owner of Cirque du Soleil, at the company's headquarters with a performer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN ENN HUGHES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR1)
Above left, Mr. Laliberte, center, preparing to board as a space tourist. Above, a scene from the show ''Zarkana.'' Left, Mr. Laliberte performing in the mid-1980s. Right, a rendering of ''Michael Jackson: The Immortal World Tour.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SERGEI ILNITSKY/EPA
OSA IMAGES/CIRQUE DU SOLEIL
CIRQUE DU SOLEIL)
Above, an artist fashions a costume on a plaster mold of a performer's head, at Cirque du Soleil's headquarters in Montreal. Above left, a scene from the coming show ''Iris.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CIRQUE DU SOLEIL
 RYAN ENN HUGHES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); MUSIC (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); MUSICAL THEATER (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); STREET ART (67%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (63%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (61%); THEATER (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); MADRID, SPAIN (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EARTH (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (78%); CANADA (74%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011



187 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2228 words

HEADLINE: 'For the Dogs' Has a Whole New Meaning

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla.
LISA CORNISH is rattling off today's menu:
Pan-seared duck with brown rice and blueberry compote.
Roasted turkey with butternut squash and russet potatoes.
Salmon with black-and-white quinoa.
Delish. Just keep in mind that all of this, right down to those banana and yogurt health bars, is dog food. Not mere Alpo, mind you -- not by a long shot. And to prove it, Ms. Cornish, who works for a company called Petcurean Pet Nutrition, will give you a taste.
If you're wondering why anyone would even consider noshing on dog chow, you haven't been to the Global Pet Expo here, where the impresarios of America's thriving, multibillion-dollar pet economy profitably ply their wares.
If there is a pet heaven, this could be it. 
Even as the economy for us humans bogs down again, the pet economy has proved remarkably resilient to a weak housing market, high unemployment and those diminished 401(k)'s. The industry has continued to grow through the recession, albeit at a slower pace, and last year, Americans spent a record $55 billion on their pets, according to the market research firm Packaged Facts, more than the gross domestic product of Belarus.
Wherever the stock market goes -- and lately, it has been going down -- this nation seems to be in the thrall of a great bull market for pets. And high-priced, ''human grade'' pet food is only the beginning.
Pet owners, or ''parents'' in industry parlance, are being sold on human-style luxuries and medical care. There are stylish rain slickers, organic foods and even antidepressants for today's pampered cats and dogs. If more evidence of this boom were needed, consider Neuticles, prosthetic testicles for neutered dogs and cats, at about $1,000 a pair, which, their designers say, help ''your pet to retain his natural look, self esteem and aids in the trauma associated with altering.''
Make no mistake: this is big business, as a visit to the Pet Expo here shows.
Over at one booth, Debbie Bohlken, owner of Claudia's Canine Cuisine, sits behind a table of brightly-decorated cookies and cakes that wouldn't look out of place in a bakery. All of these treats are for dogs. She sells her products under the slogan: ''Treat Her Like the Bitch She Really Is.''
''Will you try one?'' she asks.
Her dog biscuits, it turns out, taste a bit like ginger snaps.
Elsewhere, manufacturers are marketing foods with ingredients worthy of a Michelin-starred restaurant: pheasant, freshwater trout, yak's milk, organic pumpkin -- the list goes on.
There is much more to this than food. At the Petzlife booth, one of the owners, Steve Tibbetts, explains that his oral spray is made from ''human-grade'' ingredients that keep a dog's teeth and gums healthy and fight dog breath. He says it works for cats, too. And apparently, for people: Mr. Tibbetts sprays the stuff into his mouth. Twice.
''People are just ga-ga over their pets,'' Mr. Tibbetts says. ''They'll spend money on their pets before they spend money on themselves.''
The growth in the pet market last year was driven in part by a 7 percent increase in veterinary services. America's pet population, like its human one, is living longer. Human medical technologies are increasingly being used for pets. Dogs' and cats' owners -- particularly those without children at home -- are taking better care of them, both medically and nutritionally, experts say.
''Pet owners aren't just looking to provide a home for their pets,'' says Bob Vetere, president of the American Pet Products Association. ''They are investing in their pets' quality of life. Oftentimes they do this at their own expense, cutting personal expenses, but not those affecting their faithful companions.''
Jessica Taylor, managing editor of Petfood Industry, says that when she started at the magazine four years ago, the pet food industry lagged human trends by a year or more. Now, it is just six months behind, or less.
She predicts that blueberries and pomegranates, whose antioxidant wonders have been marketed to humans in recent years, will be the next big thing in pet food.
THE pet industry has long considered itself recession-resilient, and it proved just that during the recent downturn, despite some bumps along the way. For instance, shelters were swamped with pets that were given up by owners who apparently could no longer afford them. Fewer people bought pets, in part because pets are often acquired after a home purchase, and there were considerably fewer of those.
Sales growth of pet products slowed, particularly among ''hard goods'' like leashes and bowls. But they were still up -- which is more than you can say for many industries. Sales growth of natural pet products slowed to a relatively meager 6 percent in 2009, compared with 43 percent in 2007, according to Packaged Facts.
Analysts say the pet industry will continue to rebound, driven by demand for veterinary care and health-related products, including premium treats and chow for dogs and cats.
''I'm still very bullish on natural and organic,'' says David Lummis, senior pet market analyst for Packaged Facts, noting that such products account for about 7 percent of pet food sales. ''There is still a lot of growth there.''
In addition, he notes that expected demand for luxury pet products is strong enough to lure companies and even celebrities into the business. Among them: Martha Stewart, Ellen DeGeneres, Fisher-Price and General Nutrition Center, which now offers health supplements for pets.
Wall Street is bullish, too. Shares of PetSmart, the pet store chain, are hovering near a record high, at $43.46 a share. In its most recent quarterly earnings report, the company said same-store sales had increased 6 percent over the quarter a year earlier.
PetSmart's main competitor, Petco, is privately owned and doesn't publicly report its earnings. But Jim Myers, Petco's chief executive, says his company did not have a single negative quarter throughout the recession. Fewer people traded up to more expensive items during the downturn, but he said they didn't trade down, either, sticking with a ''premium and higher-level range of food products.''
''Our perspective is that, thankfully, we are in a pretty emotional category,'' Mr. Myers says.
At a Petco store in West Orange, N.J., natural and organic products occupy more than half the aisles set aside for dog and cat food. A sign hanging from the ceiling reads, ''It's all natural: the very best natural products for your pet.''
A representative for Blue Buffalo dog food, Gina Corbosiero, is to pitch an array of products, which she says are ''holistic'' and contain antioxidant pellets that are ''cold pressed.''
Blue Buffalo's dog food costs as much as $4 a pound, but it isn't the most expensive line on these shelves. Royal Canin makes dog food for specific breeds. Its Shih Tzu line sells for $6.80 a pound.
Lowly Pedigree, by comparison, costs 50 cents a pound.
It's all too much for Mike Pinkard, 46, who was dispatched to buy some food for his daughter's new pit bull-Labrador retriever puppy, Taz. Asked what he will buy, he says: ''I have no idea. It's changed so much from when I had a dog.''
When Mr. Pinkard was a kid, he says, ''It was regular dog food. Make sure you give them water and exercise and you are in good shape.'' He settles on a bag of Nature's Recipe, a midprice natural brand.
Are our pets healthier for all of this? Tony Buffington, a professor of veterinary nutrition at Ohio State University, says his students have studied the diet history of thousands of animals and have not yet determined that one pet food is better than another.
''We have been unable to distinguish an outcome in healthy animals eating a wide variety of foods,'' he says. Asked about the variety at megastores like Petco, he says, ''I don't even go in there anymore. I wouldn't know where to start.''
He adds: ''If you put them all in a plain brown bag, you'd probably be fine with any one of them.''
ABOUT 62 percent of American households have a pet, with dogs accounting for 40 percent of the total. Cats are second, at 34 percent. Dog and cat ownership has continued to grow slightly in recent years, even as the popularity of other types of pets, like birds, fresh-water fish and reptiles, has declined.
But the vendors at the Global Pet Expo, held at the Orange County Convention Center here in April, are betting that pet owners will splurge again.
One vendor is offering treadmills and treadwheels -- essentially oversize hamster wheels -- that let dogs exercise indoors, without the indignities of cracked sidewalks or rain.
There are ''eco-friendly'' pieces of furniture, grooming products and wipes, the wipes made from organically grown bamboo. An Israeli firm hawks dog shampoo containing Dead Sea minerals. Another, Pet Pop of Australia, promotes a vitamin-infused ''mountain-spring water'' for dogs. The price: $3.30 a bottle, about as much as a gallon of milk.
''We actually saw that there was a gap in the market for beverages for dogs,'' says Bonnie Senior, a manager at the company. Then there is Jenn Mohr, who says she combined her love of dogs and love of candles to create Sniff Pet Candles. Made of ''100 percent organic natural ingredients,'' the aromatherapy candles have names like ''Day in the Hamptons'' and ''Field of Dreams'' and ''promote your dog's optimum health and well-being,'' her company says.
Ms. Mohr even designed a candle to address the flatulence of Rufus, her Rhodesian ridgeback. Made with floral ylang-ylang, white tea, myrtle and fennel, the ''Fart & Away'' candle ''won't completely stop them,'' Ms. Mohr says. ''But it will help.'' The price: $28.
Aromatherapy candles aside, pet food, rather than pet extras, dominates the expo. Many vendors were pushing the idea of human grade pet food. Nummy Tum Tum, which sells canned organic pumpkin and sweet potato for pets, acknowledges that the line between pet and owner has been blurred. Last fall, amid a pumpkin shortage, people called to ask if it was O.K. to use Nummy Tum Tum to make pumpkin pies.
Answer: Sure. Daniel Stockton, national sales manager, says the company that makes Nummy Tum Tum makes canned pumpkin for pies, too. It simply switches the label. Both are simply pureed vegetables.
''What you can do is make some pies out of it, and leave the cans on the counter after everyone has eaten to freak people out,'' Mr. Stockton says.
Canine Caviar Foods says it makes ''the only alkaline-based dog food in America that was specifically designed to prevent cancer.'' The ingredients include canned beaver, duck and venison tripe for dogs and cats, as well as a variety of ''free-range, grass fed buffalo'' treats for dogs.
The Honest Kitchen is offering dog food with names like ''Zeal'' and ''Verve'' and lists the provenance of the ingredients. There is organic, fair-trade quinoa from Bolivia and ''wild, line-caught Icelandic haddock.'' Its food is ''gently dehydrated'' to preserve it.
Hill's Science Diet promotes prepackaged meals to help slim down tubby dogs and cats. American pets, it turns out, have weight problems just like many of their owners.
''We show you how to feed your animal to lose weight,'' says Mike Gooch, a sales manager for Hill's Science Diet. ''It's really kind of a paradigm shift in how you control the weight of the animal.''
Of course, it would be easier -- and substantially cheaper -- to feed pets less or take them for longer walks. But Mr. Gooch said that simply isn't happening for pets or owners.
''I would like to see us eat less McDonald's and Hardees,'' Mr. Gooch quips.
Bravo Raw Diet is peddling raw food for pets, which, along with refrigerated pet food, is among the hottest trends in the business. Bette Schubert, a co-founder, says dogs that eat raw meat diets -- much like their wild ancestors -- are healthier than those that eat processed kibbles.
Over at the Del Monte booth, Don Terry and Daniel Caulfield take all of this in with an air of bemusement. Del Monte makes old-line dog food like Kibbles 'n Bits, Gravy Train, Milk Bone and Snausages.
Neither seems too worried about all these organic and holistic upstarts. ''Do you know how many Milk Bones we sell compared to these companies doing $2 million a year?'' Mr. Terry asks. ''Dogs have lived a long time on Kibbles 'n Bits and Gravy Train.''
Mr. Terry, however, isn't about to pop a Snausage into his mouth.
THE idea of eating your dog food to prove its wholesomeness didn't originate at the Global Pet Expo. Paul Newman sampled his organic dog food on ''The Tonight Show'' in 2006. The audience howled.
These days, pet food makers are eating their own products to make a point and close a sale, wisecracks aside. Ms. Bohlken, of Claudia's Canine Cuisine, says she ate all sorts of dog treats while tweaking recipes for her products, which now include cookies and microwaveable cakes for dogs. Even now, she says, she will suck on a Puppy Pop when she has a sore throat.
Up in Brooklyn, Hanna Mandelbaum and Alison Wiener spent March dining on their dog food, Evermore, a brown mush made from beef hearts and chicken livers, among other things.
''My business partner really enjoys the taste,'' Ms. Mandelbaum says. ''For me, it was a little bit more an acquired taste.''
The gimmick generated a huge spike in sales but came at a price: relentless ribbing from friends. Says Ms. Mandelbaum: ''They want to know if we have a sudden urge to sniff each other's butt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At an exposition in Orlando, Fla., Debbie Bohlken had snacks handy: her company's dog treats. Americans spent $55 billion on pets last year, as human-style foods and medical care caught on. (BU1)
Lisa Cornish of Petcurean, above, prepared dog meals at the Global Pet Expo in Orlando, Fla. Sari Remer of DogChewz NYC, left, sells snacks for four-legged gourmands. Human foods like sweet potato, adapted for pets, are an increasingly common sight
 Ms. Cornish offered gourmet samples. Pet Pop, a colored spring water, is an on-the-go refreshment for dogs. The Pooch Power Waste Removal System helps after all those treats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GARY BOGDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PETS (90%); PET FOODS (90%); DOGS (89%); ANIMAL FOODS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); CATS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); PET FOOD MFG (76%); ORGANIC FOODS (76%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (76%); MAMMALS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); BAKERIES (64%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BELARUS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



188 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: In Afghanistan, Gates Stresses U.S. Is Committed to the Fight

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Saturday that the United States should stick to its full counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan at least through this year, even as American forces begin a drawdown in July and some in Congress argue that the current mission is too expensive to continue. 
Mr. Gates said at a news conference that it was too early to assess whether the Taliban would come to the negotiating table and disavow ties to Al Qaeda after the death of Osama bin Laden, the terrorist organization's founder, who had personal connections to some top insurgent leaders.
On his 12th and final visit to Afghanistan as defense secretary, Mr. Gates said the allies must take full advantage of political opportunities from President Obama's deployment of 30,000 extra troops to Afghanistan, which has increased pressure on the insurgency.
''The enemy has absorbed serious losses -- in leadership, manpower and territory -- over the last year and a half,'' Mr. Gates said. He argued that the mission should be given time to force the Taliban to lay down their arms and negotiate an end to the war.
Mr. Gates expressed hopes that the Kabul government could open significant reconciliation talks with the insurgency ''toward the end of this year.'' At that point, he said, the United States might ''at least be in a position where we can say we've turned the corner here in Afghanistan.''
He warned that ''making any change prior to that time would be premature.''
Mr. Gates said the administration was unwavering in its pledge to begin withdrawing the 30,000 ''surge'' forces beginning in July, based on conditions on the ground; no decision on numbers or pace of the drawdown has been made. All foreign combat troops are to be out of Afghanistan by the end of 2014.
Fiscal constraints in Washington, and the death of Bin Laden, have prompted some in Congress to call for swiftly ordering a smaller troop commitment -- one focused on hunting terrorists and insurgents, with fewer personnel and less money devoted to rebuilding Afghanistan's economy and corrupt government institutions. Some administration officials also have favored this more contained mission.
In answer, Mr. Gates said, ''The most costly thing of all would be to fail.'' At the same time, he acknowledged, ''You can't be oblivious to the growing war-weariness at home and the diminishing support in the Congress.''
A rapid American withdrawal also might be used by allies as a reason to order their forces home, he warned. ''We certainly don't want to precipitate a rush to the exit by our partners,'' Mr. Gates said.
At the news conference, the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, repeated his condemnation of raids by American-led NATO forces that resulted in civilian deaths. ''While we are partners and allies in the war, the people of Afghanistan do not wish or want to see their houses being bombarded, civilians being killed and lives lost,'' Mr. Karzai said. ''This is the people's expectation, and demand.''
Mr. Gates noted ''that the vast majority of civilian casualties are caused by the Taliban.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. David H. Petraeus with Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates in Kabul on Saturday. (POOL PHOTO BY JASON REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (93%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



189 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: In Connecticut, Paid Sick Leave For Service Workers Is Approved

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
After 11 hours of debate in Hartford, state legislators approved a bill on Saturday to make Connecticut the first state in the nation to mandate paid sick leave for hundreds of thousands of service workers. 
At about 3 a.m., the House voted 76 to 65 on the bill, which had been approved by an 18-to-17 vote in the Senate on May 25. About a dozen fiscally conservative House Democrats voted with the Republicans against the measure, which, while watered down from earlier proposals, had been vigorously denounced by business interests.
Proponents hailed the vote as a landmark victory for workers' rights and public health at a time that similar measures are pending or about to be introduced in Philadelphia and Seattle and are being pushed elsewhere. Only San Francisco and Washington, D.C., now require employers to give paid sick days to workers.
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, a first-term Democrat who had named paid sick days as a campaign issue, said in a statement that the bill was measured and fair. But Republicans and business interests called it onerous and ill-timed at a period in which businesses are struggling and job growth is anemic.
The bill applies only to businesses with 50 or more employees. It exempts manufacturing companies and nationally chartered nonprofit organizations, day laborers, independent contractors and temporary workers.
The measure covers only service workers who receive an hourly wage, an estimated 200,000 to 400,000 of them, including waiters, cashiers, fast-food cooks, hair stylists, security guards and nursing home aides. It allows each employee to earn one hour of paid sick time for every 40 hours worked, with the number of days capped at five per year.
Still, even in its limited form, it became a flashpoint at a time of widespread economic stress and pressure on workers.
Governor Malloy said, ''This is good public policy and specifically, good public health.'' He added: ''Why would you want to eat food from a sick restaurant cook? Or have your children taken care of by a sick day care worker? The simple answer is -- you wouldn't. And now, you won't have to.''
Before the vote, the House Republican leader, Larry Cafero, said that passing the bill was ''the absolutely worst thing we could do, the worst signal we could send.'' He added, ''What we need in the state of Connecticut is jobs, jobs, jobs.''
But proponents said there was no evidence that the legislation put an unfair burden on business.
Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women and Families, said that more than 40 million American workers do not have a single paid sick day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SICK LEAVE (92%); APPROVALS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); FAMILY (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); FAST FOOD (69%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



190 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of Winging It

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- If a maybe-candidate for president does not issue an ''official schedule'' to the news media as she tours around in something that closely resembles a campaign bus, did the tour really happen?
You betcha it did -- as evidenced by the all-terrain coverage that, true to precedent, trailed Sarah Palin wherever she motored last week.
But how dare she disregard the media like that?
That was a subtext of so much of the press grumbling that followed Ms. Palin and her family as they zigzagged through a Northeast itinerary of ''biker caravanning'' (at a veterans' motorcycle rally), historic sightseeing (Gettysburg, etc.), office politicking (the headquarters of her employer, Fox News) and Donald Trump (his own category). By ''winging it,'' or at least not telling journalists where she was headed next and leading them on what some called a ''wild goose chase,'' Ms. Palin once again showed contempt for a class of people she plainly despises. 
''I don't think I owe anything to the mainstream media,'' Ms. Palin said in an interview aboard her bus with Greta Van Susteren of Fox News.
Ms. Van Susteren's husband, John Coale, a longtime Democratic fund-raiser who became a Palin friend in 2008, marveled at the media's nerve. ''They have trashed her every which way, and they still expect to be kowtowed to?'' he said.
You could argue -- as many exasperated bus-chasers argued -- that dispensing the most basic of logistical information would not fall under the category of ''kowtowing.'' Rather, they would say, it would fall somewhere between common courtesy and rudimentary public relations.
But whatever. This is all part of the familiar Palin approach. Call it ''The Politics of Doing Whatever the Heck I Want.'' There she went again, disrespecting the almighty ''process,'' playing by her own rules and seeming not to give a flying hoot what anyone thought about it. That included the so-called key Republicans, party insiders and self-important activists whom she also seemed to ignore en route. These are many of the same people who trashed Ms. Palin's bus tour as ill-conceived and disorganized in (often anonymous) comments to the wild-goose-chasers.
These are many of the same usual suspects who complained that Ms. Palin had breached campaign decorum by showing up in New Hampshire last week on the very day Mitt Romney was formally announcing his presidential campaign there. Never mind that Mr. Romney has essentially been running for president for six years (or since kindergarten). He had designated Thursday as his ''announcement day,'' and, the decorum police felt, the rest of the field was obliged to stay out of the way in deference to the ''unwritten rule'' that says Mr. Romney should have the stage to himself on these special occasions. Likewise, the political media was obliged to treat Mr. Romney's impeccably choreographed non-news event as a news event. And everyone pretty much abided by their designated ''unwritten rules;'' everyone except Mrs. Palin, for whom ''unwritten rules'' are just another category of the political orthodoxy to run over like roadkill.
What was most striking about the bus odyssey was the apparent relish Ms. Palin seemed to take in driving reporters nuts. While there have been numerous media-loathing politicians over the years, no possible candidate of Ms. Palin's wattage has so blatantly blown off (or actively thwarted) the trailing press corps to the degree that she did.
This resulted in some comic spectacles that included Ms. Palin's using her bus as a decoy at the back entrance of a hotel in Pennsylvania so she could slip out a side entrance; or encountering a Sarah Palin impersonator in Boston and instructing her to ''go talk to all these reporters'' on her behalf.
Why does Ms. Palin behave this way? The simplest answer is, ''because she can.'' Despite her scorn for much of the press corps -- a scorn not infrequently reciprocated -- they covered her anyway. It brings to mind the oft-stated belief that if the press really wanted to punish Ms. Palin, they would ignore her. ''What's the sound of an 18-wheeler when not trailed by a caravan of reporters?'' asked Mark Salter, a longtime aide to Senator John McCain and top adviser to the McCain-Palin campaign of 2008. ''The answer is silence.''
Not likely anytime soon, in other words, wherever Ms. Palin turns up next.
Full disclosure: I made no attempt to follow last week's bus tour myself. I am writing this from the air-conditioned shelter of a Washington office. The ''comic spectacles'' described above might not have been so comic at all had I nearly crashed a rental car into a decoy bus or scored an interview with Ms. Palin only to learn that she was in fact the impersonator. (Imagine Sarah Palin with a Boston accent!)
I'm all for political people extending every courtesy to us poor, pampered media types. The predictability afforded by such courtesies is often our friend, especially with a deadline looming. But as someone who has consumed --and contributed to -- a massive body of predictable campaign coverage over the years, I find something refreshing about the ''winging it'' approach. And it was instructive to see the media so disoriented upon being deprived of the familiar setups, set-pieces and bubble-like environments of a modern presidential campaign.
We do not know if Ms. Palin was authentically ''winging it'' -- or just giving the impression of it to burnish her freewheeling populist credibility. She is certainly capable of political calculation and personal image crafting of the highest order. Her bogey-manning of the ''lame-stream media'' carries obvious benefit for her among her base. Whether this can translate into a winning electoral strategy if she decides to run is another question.
But by its counterexample, the Palin Wild Goose Chase Tour served as a kind of object lesson for what the political media environment has become today. ''I think that it would be a mistake for me to become some kind of conventional politician and doing things the way that it's always been done with the media,'' Ms. Palin told Ms. Van Susteren. She snickered at the custom dictating that campaigns should ''orchestrate'' and ''script'' everything for the media's ease.
''We'll basically write a story for you, media, about what we are doing every day,'' Ms. Palin said sarcastically.
As it happened, the Romney campaign was trying to do just that on Thursday. By early morning --hours from the start of his actual events -- it was widely known that Mr. Romney would participate in a ''chili cookout'' at Doug and Stella Scamman's Bittersweet Farm in Stratham, N.H. There, he would focus on the economy, declare that President Obama has ''failed'' and talk up his experience in the private sector. His precise words were also widely known (''We are only inches away from ceasing to be a free market economy''), as was the identity of the requisite struggling American family (from Nevada) that Mr. Romney would highlight in his remarks and the name of the 12-year old Romney supporter (Hudson Ingoldsby) who would lead everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
How was this all so widely known? Because a ''senior adviser'' to Mr. Romney helpfully provided the data to Mike Allen of Politico, author of the influential tip-sheet Playbook, which pretty much every political reporter in Washington and beyond reads. Mr. Allen disseminated the information, interested media types planned their days accordingly and a few hours later, the announcement went off pretty much as planned.
That is, except for Ms. Palin, who figuratively rumbled onto Mr. Romney's manicured lawn, doing the political equivalent of donuts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOLLY RILEY/REUTERS) (WK1)
 Upstaged: Mitt Romney in New Hampshire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C.J. GUNTHER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (WK5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); SARAH PALIN (79%); DONALD TRUMP (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



191 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: America's Energy Options

 BODY:
Last week, under the headline ''Invitation to a Dialogue: The Energy Future,'' we introduced a feature in which we will occasionally invite readers to respond to a particularly provocative and interesting letter. We hope to spur a dialogue on issues of national or international importance. Here is the original letter, followed by a sampling of reader responses, and a rebuttal from the first writer.
The Original Letter
To the Editor: 
In ''Gas Prices and Political Pandering'' (editorial, May 21), you accuse President Obama of trying to score political points by promoting increased domestic production of oil and natural gas.
Is it possible that President Obama is pushing for increased production because he understands that without it, we won't have the energy we need to fuel a growing economy? Is it possible that he also understands that it will be decades before alternative fuels, greater efficiency and mass transit -- all of which we support -- will be able to provide the energy security we seek?
You oppose increased production for American oil and natural gas companies because it ''will take years to come online and even then would have a tiny impact on prices set on the world market.'' The same can be said about alternative fuels, greater efficiency and mass transit.
The future will require energy from all sources. We need to act today to ensure that we have that energy tomorrow. While the president's proposals did not go far enough, they are a step in the right direction.
JACK N. GERARD President and Chief Executive American Petroleum Institute Washington, May 23, 2011
Reader Responses
To the Editor:
Cheap and abundant oil made possible the postwar boom, cheap food and surging populations worldwide. Now that we face the unintended consequences, all Jack N. Gerard can suggest is more of the same.
Maintaining adequate supplies of water, food and energy in the decades ahead will be a daunting challenge. A more diverse set of energy sources, including fossil fuels and nuclear, will absolutely be necessary. Of one thing we can be certain: Energy will be more costly regardless of its source.
That makes conservation the critical and often overlooked piece of the puzzle. Conservation means things like revised building codes, more stringent fuel-economy standards, investment in more efficient transportation options, and doing things such as adjusting thermostats and reducing wasteful use of energy like unnecessary lighting.
It is time to plan for a sustainable future, not just the next few years of profit for the oil industry.
MICHAEL SHORES Rhinelander, Wis., June 2, 2011
To the Editor:
Jack N. Gerard defends President Obama's push for increased oil production in the United States, alleging that alternative fuels, greater efficiency and mass transit will take years to come online. While that is true for oil exploration and mass transit, harnessing renewable energy and improving energy efficiency can be done much more quickly.
Within months of planning, wind power or conservation projects can come online with a measurable effect on energy supply and averting harmful pollution. In both Britain and China, gigantic offshore wind projects were installed and were generating electricity within a year or two of policy decisions. From Cape Cod to Cape Hatteras, there is enough wind resource for all electricity needs, for heating buildings and for transportation with electric cars in densely populated coastal areas. Furthermore, unlike oil, clean air will never be exhausted.
LEFTERIS PAVLIDES Bristol, R.I., June 2, 2011
The writer, a professor of architecture at Roger Williams University, is president of the Rhode Island Wind Alliance.
To the Editor:
Much as it pains me to admit it, the head of the American Petroleum Institute makes a valid point that oil and natural gas will be major sources of energy for the foreseeable future. What would totally endear me to him and to Big Oil and Coal would be to see them investing heavily and seriously in developing renewable and ecologically friendly fuels and energy systems.
If they did, I'd feel a lot better about draining my wallet at the gas pump and seeing my tax dollars subsidize tax breaks for the world's most profitable industry.
GREGG WARD San Diego, June 2, 2011
Rebuttal
To the Editor:
Thanks to The Times for fostering dialogue to make it easier to find areas of consensus on shaping our energy future. The problem is translating that into viable policies. For too long, our industry has been a convenient punching bag for politicians of all stripes -- and editorial pages, this one included. As long as this persists, nothing will get accomplished.
Three principal points on which there appears to be consensus among these letters are energy diversity, conservation/efficiency and low- and no-carbon energy sources. There is also a general understanding that oil and natural gas will continue to be an integral part of our energy picture for decades to come. We agree on all points.
Our companies are committed to encouraging and practicing conservation and energy efficiency. Since 1990, our industry has invested more than $209 billion toward improving the environmental performance of its products, facilities and operations. Between 2000 and 2008, it invested $58.4 billion in low- and zero-carbon emissions technologies -- more than either the federal government or all other United States-based industries combined. Between 2007 and 2008, our advanced technologies reduced greenhouse gas emissions by more than 48 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent -- comparable to removing 9.7 million cars from the roads.
New energy sources are vital for the future, and our members are leaders in developing new technologies, including wind and solar, geothermal, biofuels, fuel cells and hydrogen power. As energy companies, they recognize that it is in their interest to position themselves to be able to provide the energy of the future. And while, as Lefteris Pavlides suggests, the technology exists to expand solar and wind facilities, we must acknowledge the challenges related to scale and storage transmission -- and experience shows that even these energy sources are subject to not-in-my-backyard and environmental concerns.
Oil and natural gas are critical not just for transportation, heating and cooling. They are the building blocks for the manufacturing of products essential to our lives, including computers, medicines and medical equipment. Without natural gas, in particular, we would not be able to make solar panels or wind turbines, or the lightweight composites for the manufacturing of energy-efficient airplanes and vehicles.
So, where do we disagree? We take issue with the assumption that our industry's response to the energy challenges we face is, as Michael Shores says, ''more of the same.'' Such assumptions lead to the knee-jerk vilification of our industry and make impossible the development of sound policy consensus. Yes, we advocate -- forcefully -- for more production of America's oil and natural gas resources to meet the continued demand. It would be irresponsible for us not to, going against the interest of our members' shareholders and our economy. But, as noted above, our vision is much broader.
President Obama's acknowledging that we need to adopt a balanced approach to our energy future is good, but as I stated in my original letter, it is only a first step and he must follow through with a real commitment that produces tangible results.
JACK N. GERARD President and Chief Executive American Petroleum Institute Washington, June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); WRITERS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); OIL EXPLORATION (69%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



192 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2221 words

PERSON: Lawrence Eagleburger 

HEADLINE: Lawrence Eagleburger, a Top Diplomat, Dies at 80

BYLINE: By BERNARD GWERTZMAN; David E. Sanger and Edward Wyatt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Lawrence S. Eagleburger, a troubleshooting diplomat and senior foreign policy adviser to presidents who served the country for more than 40 years, including 42 days as secretary of state at the close of President George Bush's term, died on Saturday in Charlottesville, Va. He was 80.
The cause was pneumonia, according to a spokeswoman for the family, Anais Haase, who said he died at the University of Virginia Medical Center after having a heart attack earlier in the week. He lived in Charlottesville, on a 40-acre estate.
Mr. Eagleburger, a Republican who rose to prominence as the top aide to Henry A. Kissinger in the Nixon and Ford administrations, was candid in his confidential advice and outspoken in his public comments, particularly regarding his unhappiness about the Iraq war started by President George W. Bush. 
Over a Foreign Service career that began in the early 1960s, Mr. Eagleburger became known for his dry, sometimes caustic wit, rumpled suits and reliance on a cane, forced upon him by a knee injury and a muscle disorder. Chronic asthma required him to use inhalers, though he continued to smoke.
He specialized in crises, often in Europe and specifically in the Balkans, where he spent seven years over two tours of duty. In the early 1980s, when he served as the ambassador in Belgrade, he was unable to keep Yugoslavia from dissolving several years later.
During the first Bush presidency, Mr. Eagleburger was second in command at the State Department under James A. Baker III, and because of his previous experience in the Middle East as Mr. Kissinger's aide, he was sent on a delicate mission to Israel in 1991, at the start of the Persian Gulf war, which had been mounted to eject Iraq from Kuwait.
Mr. Eagleburger's task was to persuade the Israelis under Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir to stay out of the fight, even though Iraqi Scud missiles were landing in Israel. The United States was concerned then, as it would be 12 years later in the war in Iraq, that Israel not be seen as a military partner, fearing that such a perception would alienate Arab and Muslim states willing to help. His success eventually led to his appointment as secretary of state, the first Foreign Service officer to be so elevated.
''Lawrence Eagleburger devoted his life to the security of our nation and to strengthening our ties with allies and partners,'' President Obama said in a statement Saturday.
Mr. Eagleburger had retired from the Foreign Service in 1984 and was earning more than a million dollars a year working for Mr. Kissinger's consulting firm when Mr. Baker persuaded him to return to government service as deputy secretary of state in 1989.
When Mr. Baker agreed somewhat reluctantly to step down to become Mr. Bush's political adviser in his faltering re-election campaign in August 1992, Mr. Eagleburger was named acting secretary of state and ran the department. After losing the election to Bill Clinton, Mr. Bush officially named Mr. Eagleburger to the post. He served from Dec. 8, 1992, to Jan. 19, 1993. Only one other secretary served a shorter term, Elihu B. Washburne, who took office under President Ulysses S. Grant on March 5, 1869, and left 11 days later to head the American mission to France.
Overweight and a heavy smoker, Mr. Eagleburger did not fit the State Department mold. Time magazine wrote in 1992: ''The common image of a U.S. secretary of state is that of Dean Acheson, Cyrus Vance, James Baker -- a suave WASP lawyer, slender and urbane, who probably rowed at Yale or Princeton. But Lawrence Eagleburger, the new acting secretary, looks like the Michelin Man with a cane.''
His demeanor disguised an uncanny diplomatic ability to manage the difficult art of diplomacy, however. And his wit was legend. Asked at a Senate confirmation hearing if he had ever in public or private pinched a woman's behind, Mr. Eagleburger replied: ''Can I divide that into two questions?''
His influence in Washington grew as the top aide to Mr. Kissinger, who was named President Richard M. Nixon's national security adviser in 1969 and secretary of state in 1973. In June 1969, he collapsed in his office from overexertion and was subsequently sent to NATO as head of the political section. He returned, though, in 1973 as Mr. Kissinger's executive assistant. In that job, he was essentially responsible for running the State Department, which during the Watergate period effectively ran America's foreign policy for a distracted White House.
Even though Mr. Eagleburger became known as ''Kissinger's man,'' he was one of the few officials who had no fear of disagreeing with Mr. Kissinger. And he was able to win support throughout the bureaucracy.
Mr. Kissinger so trusted Mr. Eagleburger that he asked him to become involved in secret diplomacy with the Cubans when an abortive effort was made to see if relations could be established.
Despite Mr. Eagleburger's close identification with the Republican Party and with Mr. Kissinger, President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat, picked him to be the ambassador in Belgrade, a place he had relished since his days as an economics officer in the American Embassy from 1962 to 1965.
During that earlier period, Mr. Eagleburger became known as ''Lawrence of Macedonia'' to Yugoslavs because of his almost single-handed effort to marshal American aid to set up a full-scale United States Army field hospital in Skopje, the capital of Macedonia, which had suffered a severe earthquake in 1963.
Josip Broz Tito, the wartime resistance fighter who led Yugoslavia as an independent communist state from the end of World War II, had died in 1980, and so Mr. Eagleburger faced a complex time as ambassador. Newsweek quoted a State Department official as saying in 1981, ''We could not have been better represented in Yugoslavia during the tense period after Tito's death.''
In Mr. Eagleburger's tour as ambassador, the problems that later split Yugoslavia into separate states, leading to a long conflict in Bosnia and a NATO intervention in Kosovo, were just beginning to cause concern.
Mr. Eagleburger met several times with Slobodan Milosevic, then the president of Serbia, the largest of the Yugoslav states, to urge him to stop trying to suppress the aspirations of the large Albanian population in the Kosovo region. ''You're going to have to change your approach if you want a close relationship with the United States,'' he told a reporter about his message to Mr. Milosevic. ''You can't hold Yugoslavia together by force.''
When Mr. Milosevic later tried to do precisely that, Mr. Eagleburger said, ''I misjudged him.''
As his term as secretary of state was ending, he began speaking out on the conflict in Bosnia, in which Serbs were trying to crush the largely Muslim population of Bosnia.
''I spent seven years of my life in that country,'' he told a reporter. ''I got to know the various peoples and regions very well. I developed equal respect and admiration for all of them. I have friends in every republic. What has befallen all of the peoples of Yugoslavia is a tragedy.''
In 2003, President Bush asked him to lead the United States delegation to the funeral of Zoran Djindjic, the Serbian prime minister, who had been assassinated on March 12.
Even so, a year earlier, Mr. Eagleburger had openly questioned the administration's increasing preoccupation with Iraq and its talk of an invasion.
''I am scared to death that they are going to convince the president that they can do this,'' he said in August 2002, ''overthrow Saddam Hussein on the cheap, and we'll find ourselves in the middle of a swamp because we didn't plan to do it in the right way.''
Lawrence Sidney Eagleburger was born on Aug. 1, 1930, in Milwaukee. His father, Leon, was a doctor, and his mother, Helen, an elementary school teacher. When his father was called to service during World War II, the family moved to Mississippi and later to Seattle. In 1946, the Eagleburgers returned to Wisconsin and settled in Stevens Point.
His father ''was somewhere to the right of Genghis Khan,'' he once said, and his mother was a longtime supporter of Melvin R. Laird, then a congressman, who became secretary of defense under Nixon. Young Eagleburger was a leader of the Wisconsin Young Republicans from 1949 to 1951.
After graduating from the University of Wisconsin in Madison, he joined the Army from 1952 to 1954, rising to a first lieutenant. He returned to Wisconsin to seek a master's degree in political science. One day he saw a sign on a campus bulletin board for the Foreign Service examination. ''I took it, passed it, took the oral exam and passed that,'' he told The Washington Post in 1984. ''Up until then, I had never even thought of the Foreign Service.''
After assignments to Honduras and to the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research, he was assigned to Serbian-Croatian language training, and that started his identification with Yugoslavia.
After his ''Lawrence of Macedonia'' experience, he was rotated back to Washington, where he was assigned to work as special assistant to former Secretary of State Dean Acheson, who had been asked by President Lyndon B. Johnson to provide advice on how to respond to France's threat to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
The next year, he joined the staff of Walt W. Rostow, the head of the National Security Council, as an expert on European affairs. He then moved back to the State Department as a special assistant to Nicholas deB. Katzenbach, then the under secretary of state.
That set the stage for his collaboration with Mr. Kissinger when the two men were working on the transition team for Nixon, then the president-elect.
The stress of working day and night for Mr. Kissinger in the first months in office culminated in his collapse into unconsciousness in his White House office in June 1969. After recuperation, he was sent to Brussels and served in the Pentagon before Mr. Kissinger brought him back to the State Department when he became secretary of state in 1973.
After serving as Mr. Carter's envoy to Yugoslavia, he returned to Washington, where the new president, Ronald Reagan, appointed him assistant secretary for European affairs under Alexander M. Haig Jr., then secretary of state. He was promoted to under secretary of state for political affairs, then the highest-ranking job for career officials.
For years he was troubled by a variety of ailments. He walked with a cane after his left knee was replaced with a titanium joint.
After resigning from government service, Mr. Eagleburger spent five years at Kissinger Associates before returning to the State Department.
As Mr. Baker's No. 2 he handled day-to-day responsibilities for running the department. Besides his mission to Israel, he was also sent to China after the Tiananmen Square crackdown to assess relations and to Panama after the American invasion in 1989.
A brief first marriage ended in divorce in 1963. In 1966 he married Marlene Ann Heinemann, of the Heinemann Bakeries family of Milwaukee. She died last June. He had one son by his first marriage and two by his second. All three are named Lawrence. When asked by The Washington Post why all had the same given name, he replied: ''It was ego. And secondly, I wanted to screw up the Social Security system.''
The sons, who use their middle names, survive him. They are Scott, of Madison, and Andrew and Jason, both of Charlottesville. Survivors also include a sister, Jean Case of Las Vegas, and three grandchildren.
In recent years, Mr. Eagleburger led the International Commission on Holocaust Era Insurance Claims, which sought to settle claims brought by victims of Nazi brutality.
In 2006, he served on the Iraq Study Group, the panel headed by Mr. Baker and former Representative Lee H. Hamilton, Democrat of Indiana, that called for a gradual troop reduction and increased diplomacy to extricate the United States from Iraq.
In 2008, he was a strong supporter of Senator John McCain's bid for the White House but drew wide publicity when he questioned the qualifications of Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, wondering if she would be ''prepared to take the reins of the presidency'' if necessary.
His death brought tributes from the Bush family, Mr. Baker and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.
Mr. Eagleburger occasionally, if grumpily, returned to the White House during the George W. Bush administration, usually for updates on the Iraq war.
Minutes before going into one such session, he ran into a reporter on the driveway just outside the West Wing. They chatted for a while about the administration's national security policies while Mr. Eagleburger lit a cigarette.
''They won't let you smoke down in the Sit Room anymore,'' he explained, clear annoyance in his voice as he took a last drag.
''Well,'' he said, ''I better go see if they finally figured out the damn war.'' He tossed his cigarette, still smoldering, into the White House bushes and, cane in hand, marched inside.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 6, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Sunday about Lawrence S. Eagleburger, the diplomat and adviser to presidents, misstated the given name of the wartime resistance fighter who led Yugoslavia as an independent communist state. He was Josip Broz Tito, not Josef.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawrence S. Eagleburger, center, served as a foreign policy adviser to presidents and as secretary of state for the first President George Bush. He specialized in crises, specifically in the Balkans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); IRAQ WAR (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); DESERT STORM (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); HEART DISEASE (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); ASTHMA (67%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (52%); CHRONIC DISEASES (52%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); KUWAIT (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (76%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011



193 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: Keep My Boldface Name Out of It

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
WAS that Lady Gaga touring a penthouse at the Soho Mews in what looked like a bra and panties? Yes, it was. But, a broker joked, the apartment had too many windows and so she didn't buy there. Instead, it was Justin Timberlake who took the place.
Did the Bowery really seem more respectable just because John Legend bought a penthouse nearby on East Fourth Street?
From Alex Rodriguez to Uma Thurman, celebrity house-hunting is tracked obsessively in this real-estate-obsessed city. 
And there are few New Yorkers whose real estate adventures are as intensely chronicled as Sarah Jessica Parker's.
When it was rumored that Ms. Parker and her husband, Matthew Broderick, had decided to move to Brooklyn from Manhattan in 2009, it was viewed as a tectonic shifting of the cultural landscape. Although the buzz did not turn out to be true, after that, even the slightest hint of her interest in a property was tracked by dozens of real estate and entertainment Web sites.
In the last two years, the rumor mill has taken Ms. Parker from a $21 million penthouse on Central Park West to what is now believed to be her new town house in the East Village.
The public may get hours of fun following the home-buying antics of boldface names, but the goal of many wealthy people, famous or infamous, is to get the deal done in private.
Brokers describe signing confidentiality agreements, taking high-profile clients to tour properties in the middle of the night, and employing code language. And they say clients are increasingly using the cover of trusts or limited liability companies to buy Manhattan property anonymously.
For instance, when Jennifer Aniston -- whose search for a home in Manhattan was chronicled with the same intensity as every change in her hairstyle and relationship status -- reportedly settled on a West Village apartment last month, her name appeared nowhere on the paperwork.
But her dog's did. As was widely reported, the corgi-terrier mix (who has since died) lent his name to the Norman's Nest Trust, which purchased several apartments in a building on West 12th Street; Bruce Lagnese, Ms. Aniston's business manager, signed the documents.
Many others who buy under the cover of investment vehicles are never found out.
Kelly Kennedy Mack, the president of Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group, said that of the 600 apartments in new development projects she had worked on last year, about 30 percent had been bought through trusts and LLCs.
''There are a number of reasons someone would want to buy an apartment this way,'' she said. ''One reason, obviously, is anonymity. But in other cases, it is for investment purposes.''
Frances Katzen, a top broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman, says her clients regularly ask about the possibility of buying a property through an investment vehicle. ''It is really de rigueur for high-end clients to at least explore the possibility,'' she said.
Nor is it just celebrities who want to keep quiet how much they are plunking down for an apartment. As the financial industry has come under public scorn for the role it played in the economic distress of recent years, Wall Street types are more eager than ever to keep their multimillion-dollar real estate deals away from prying eyes, brokers say.
Beyond concerns about perception and hopes for anonymity, buyers have personal reasons for choosing to keep their names out of a deal.
Most commonly, according to brokers and lawyers, clients are hoping to protect their assets from their spouses in case the marriage hits the rocks.
Luigi Rosabianca, a real estate lawyer in Manhattan who has helped set up property-buying vehicles, says that can be a dubious proposition, since divorce courts are like ''the Wild West'' and there is no guarantee that an LLC purchase can keep an apartment from being part of a settlement.
However, buying through an investment vehicle can help wealthy clients protect their assets in other ways.
''If you are Angelina Jolie and there is an accident or something at your apartment,'' he said, ''you are only liable for the value of the LLC,'' which is usually limited to the value of the property.
Of course, some people use investment vehicles to buy property for reasons that are not so aboveboard, like laundering or hiding money -- although lawyers said that had become more difficult since 9/11, when a crackdown made it easier for the authorities to track banking transactions.
Trusts, as opposed to LLCs, have other benefits, especially when it comes to estate planning.
''For someone who set up a trust,'' Mr. Rosabianca said, ''there are usually two goals. One is to create a smooth transition to pass the property on to heirs or next of kin. It can also minimize your estate tax liability.''
But there is a major drawback that may make all but the wealthiest think twice before buying property through a vehicle: Many buyers who use a trust or an LLC are not eligible for a capital-gains tax exclusion. An individual who creates a trust or is the sole owner of an LLC may be eligible for an exclusion in some cases. (For individuals selling a property they bought under their own names, the cap on the exclusion is $250,000; for couples it is $500,000. That is very real money for most people.)
In New York City, co-op boards present another obstacle.
''Most credible co-op boards want a name on the deed,'' said Pamela Liebman, the president of the Corcoran Group.
In the event of a problem, boards want to deal with a person, not an LLC. They also frown on the purchase of apartments for investment purposes.
Such resistance from co-op boards is one reason that new condominium developments and town houses are so appealing to high-end buyers, Ms. Mack said.
Once, co-op boards were seen as the guardians of privacy. They still are in a sense, since they play an active role in deciding who will be allowed to buy into their buildings. But real estate transactions have become more transparent in recent years; with the advent of searchable databases on the Internet, it is difficult to keep deals under the radar.
Taken together with the shift in taste that now has downtown chic rivaling uptown prestige for big-money clients, Ms. Mack said, it has been a very good time for high-end new construction.
Even so, some buyers go to great lengths to conceal identity -- even if they ultimately fail.
''A high-profile financial service guy was buying an expensive place in a large, well-known building,'' Ms. Mack said, recalling a deal she worked on several years ago. ''We all had to sign confidentiality agreements. A code name was used throughout the process. The purchaser went through all this trouble and then listed his current address as the same address listed on the LLC.''
Cover blown.
Even when celebrities do manage to keep the initial sale under wraps, it is only a matter of time before neighbors, doormen and others start noticing a famous face coming and going.
But even educated guesses can be wrong. When it was rumored that Ms. Parker bought the apartment in Brooklyn, the news was plastered on the cover of The New York Post.
It turned out not to be true.
Several more false reports surfaced before The New York Observer reported last month that Ms. Parker and Mr. Broderick had at last settled on a new home, paying $18.95 million for a 25-foot-wide Greek Revival town house built 165 years ago in the East Village.
The property was bought under the cover of the Heirloom Trust, but the name of Ms. Parker's business manager, Frank Selvaggi, appeared on the paperwork.
Not all celebrities care about hiding their real estate adventures. Courtney Love was so consumed with finding the perfect downtown town house that she corresponded with the editors at Curbed NY, which was already chronicling her every move. After losing out on Milla Jovovich's Greenwich Avenue town house, she checked out three other town houses suggested by Curbed, tweeting dozens of messages. Her search went on for months, but she ended up renting a place on West 10th Street for $28,000 a month, the Web site reported.
Those who do want to remain anonymous often will not discuss the transaction even after it has been completed. When a reporter tried to get more information on the trust that Ms. Aniston reportedly used to buy her apartments, he was rebuffed.
''I'm sorry, but I don't see the upside to participating in this,'' said Stephen Huvane, Ms. Aniston's publicist. ''As you said, buying anything through a trust is mostly for privacy reasons, so this request negates that purpose.''
According to public records, Norman's Nest Trust paid $4.95 million for a West Village penthouse formerly owned by Sally Hershberger, a big-time hairstylist. The trust paid an additional $2 million for a one-bedroom apartment a floor lower.
Of course, if the apartments are going to be combined, it may be many more months before anyone moves in.
In the meantime, there's a simple way to avoid prying eyes: Rent.
Correction: June 12, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about celebrities and others who shield their identities behind trusts and LLCs when buying real estate misstated the eligibility of such buyers for an exclusion from capital-gains tax when the property is sold. An individual who creates a trust or is the sole owner of an LLC may be eligible for an exclusion in some cases; it is not prohibited across the board.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A K A ANONYMOUS: What do Lady Gaga, Jennifer Aniston and Sarah Jessica Parker have in common? Discreet house-hunting, that's what. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACKSON LEE/SPLASH NEWS
MARCEL THOMAS/FILMMAGIC) (RE1)
YO, FANS! Courtney Love wasn't shy about her town-house hunt
 she tweeted it. But while you may think you know where Justin Timberlake lives, you didn't hear from him that he named his LLC ''Just Us 1.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCEL THOMAS/FILMMAGIC) (RE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LINGERIE (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (63%); DOGS (61%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (50%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (90%); JENNIFER ANISTON (75%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (72%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



194 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Sticker Shock: That much pollution? And it costs how much to drive?

 BODY:
Lots of happy talk accompanied the Obama administration's unveiling of new fuel economy stickers for cars and light trucks that will include annual fuel costs and information about emissions. The new stickers, mandatory starting with the 2013 models, are a big improvement on the simple miles-per-gallon estimates on the present label. If they were there right now, we suspect many car buyers would be experiencing a new sort of sticker shock. 
Consider a new midsize Ford Fusion S model. At $4-a-gallon gas, annual fuel costs would be about $2,200 for 15,000 miles driven. The car emits about 250 grams of greenhouse gases per mile; the new sticker would give it a 6 greenhouse gas rating on a scale of 1 to 10. And that's for a car with a rated mileage of 34.9 m.p.g. (actual highway mileage, as with all vehicles, is lower, in this case about 27 m.p.g.). Industry clearly needs to do better.
Labels can help consumers make better choices. But Detroit and other manufacturers make big changes only when regulators force them to.
President Obama now has a chance to press for those changes. His advisers are in the final stages of drawing up new fuel economy and emissions standards for vehicles produced between 2017 and 2025. One advocate of tougher standards, Brendan Bell of the Union of Concerned Scientists, calls it ''the biggest decision the president is making this summer that no one knows about.''
Mr. Obama has said he will recommend strong standards, but industry and many in Congress are furiously lobbying for the weakest they can get away with.
Last year, the administration put four proposals on the table. The most conservative, which industry prefers, calls for an average annual fuel efficiency increase of 3 percent, which works out to a fleetwide average of 47 m.p.g. by 2025. The most ambitious scenario, favored by environmental and consumer groups, calls for average annual gains of 6 percent, which works out to 62 m.p.g. in the same time frame.
Mr. Obama should hang tough. Given the vanishingly small prospects for serious energy legislation on Capitol Hill, the new standards represent his and the country's most promising opportunity to make significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and America's dependence on foreign oil.
The president has a strong track record. The fuel economy agreement he negotiated in 2009 raised fleetwide fuel economy standards to 34.1 m.p.g. by 2016 -- a 40 percent improvement on standards that had not changed much in 30 years. In addition to significant reductions in pollution, that agreement is expected to save 1.6 million barrels of oil a day, roughly the amount produced in the Gulf of Mexico.
Mr. Obama now needs to push automakers to do even better. Technological improvements will be necessary to reach any credible new standards -- more gas-electric hybrids, more all-electric vehicles, better batteries, lighter body materials. But the basic technology is there.
Industry says cars will cost more. Federal studies say the most aggressive plan -- 62 m.p.g. -- would add $2,800 to $3,500 to the price of a car. They also show that the improved technology could deliver as much as $9,700 in reduced gasoline bills over the life of the car. That sounds like a good deal for consumers, and the environment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (75%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); LOBBYING (69%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



195 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths PRIVITERE, LOUIS PHILIP

 BODY:
PRIVITERE--Louis Philip, 85, passed away peacefully at home on May 22, 2011 after a brief, valiant battle with lung cancer. He was a loving and devoted husband, father, grandfather and loyal friend and believed in living life to the fullest with no regrets. Born August 12, 1925, in New York, NY he enlisted in the US Army before he turned eighteen in 1943. He proudly served his country until 1946 in China-Burma-India during WWII. 
On returning to New York, he enrolled in NYU and studied Business Administration there before transferring to The University of Miami where he earned his degree in Economics. Lou (as he liked to be called by everyone) held executive positions with several pharmaceutical firms but it would be at Merck Sharp & Dohme International where he was hired in 1964 as managing director of Venezuela that he would make his mark during a twenty five year career. In 1967 he was transferred to Italy as managing director there. Merck's business was in an early stage and thanks to his leadership and energy together with the efforts of his successors a pattern of long term growth began with Italy becoming one of the biggest and most successful subsidiaries. He returned to the US in 1969 as vice president of Latin America and assumed broader responsibilities as vice president for the Western Hemisphere in 1974. In 1977 he was elected senior vice president responsible for the division's activities in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, the far East (excluding Japan) the Middle East, India, Pakistan and Latin America. Before retiring in 1995, he was named senior vice president of Europe, thus completing many years at senior levels in a period of significant innovation and growth with the firm. Lou was a dynamic and resourceful executive whose greatest strengths were rooted in his ability to motivate and develop employees. He had a good eye for people's potential and was unafraid to delegate and empower his staff. Affable and direct, unceremonious in style, he was able to inspire his organizations to give their best. Happily retired in Naples, FL for the past sixteen years, he enjoyed cooking and playing golf, tennis and poker with his small circle of friends. In addition to his devoted wife, Jacqui, left to cherish his memory are his children, Paula Verner of Naples, FL, Andrea (Edward) Evans and Philip Privitere both of Montclair, NJ, his six grandchildren, David Verner, Todd Berquist, Chris Langfield, Tom Evans, Cayla and Cole Privitere and his stepson Alex O'Neal Caffrey. He will always be remembered with great love and respect.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); CANCER (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); LUNG CANCER (73%); ARMIES (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

COMPANY: MERCK SHARP & DOHME INTERNATIONAL SERVICES BV (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



196 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include consumer credit for April (Tuesday); Federal Reserve beige book (Wednesday); trade deficit for April, weekly jobless claims and wholesale trade inventories for April (Thursday); and import prices for May (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting will include Hovnanian Enterprises and Navistar (Tuesday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, Steven P. Jobs will unveil next-generation software at the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, above, will speak at an international monetary conference in Atlanta Monday, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, will speak Tuesday. The World Bank will sponsor an event about the half-year update on its Global Economic Prospects report on Tuesday.
OVERSEAS On Tuesday, France will conduct a Group of 20 conference on nuclear safety. On Wednesday, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet in Vienna. On Wednesday and Thursday, the World Economic Forum on Eastern Europe and Central Asia will take place in Vienna. On Thursday, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England will issue decisions on interest rates. Friday is the deadline for nominations for managing director of the International Monetary Fund.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); IMPORT PRICES (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); STEVEN JOBS (56%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%); CENTRAL EUROPE (66%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011



197 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: As Greece's Fiscal Crisis Grows, Economists Are Wary of a Second Bailout

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt.

 BODY:
VENICE -- As European leaders move toward a second bailout for Greece, some economists are warning that a new rescue would merely kick the country's problems further down the road and might not avert a default that could strain Europe's monetary union.
A year after providing an aid package of 110 billion euros, or $161 billion at current exchange rates, officials are considering whether to lend Greece an additional 50 billion or 60 billion euros as the country struggles with a deep economic downturn. 
Even if Greece is pulled from immediate danger again, economists say, European leaders face the prospect of providing still more aid over the next several years if Greece cannot revive its economy.
''I don't see how Greece can eventually avoid some kind of default,'' said Martin N. Baily, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, who served as chairman of Council of Economic Advisers under the Clinton administration. ''It's hard to see how you can avoid the need to finance this over the next five to 10 years.''
His sentiment was echoed widely among economists, politicians and analysts gathered here over the weekend for a conference held by the Council for the United States and Italy.
Greece's problems are deepening at a time when the United States is also trying to pare its own gaping budget deficit, a challenge that has grown amid signs that the American economic recovery may be faltering.
Indeed, ever since the European debt crisis flared, European policy makers have wondered aloud whether the United States might face its own day of reckoning. Last week, Moody's Investors Service said it might downgrade the United States government's top-tier credit rating if Congress failed to raise the nation's debt ceiling in coming weeks.
The Greek government is trying to cut its deficit by 6.4 billion euros by reducing spending and raising taxes, as well as by selling major national assets. Without those pledges, the International Monetary Fund was wary of releasing a new portion of aid promised in its first loan a year ago, and European leaders were loath to come up with new financing. The Greek fiscal crisis worsened after Moody's warned last week that there was a 50 percent chance that the country would default or restructure its debts within the next five years.
European leaders want to avoid such an event at all costs. The European Central Bank has warned that a default or restructuring by Greece could cause a panic about the ability of Ireland and Portugal -- which have also received European bailouts -- to repay their debts. The result, some say, could be a financial contagion that engulfs other weak euro zone countries, some large European banks and even the European Central Bank, which holds large amounts of Greek debt.
Some officials say such warnings are too dire. But many economists say they see any further trouble in Greece as both a political and economic flash point for the rest of the euro zone. The inability of heavily indebted countries to stoke their economies could broaden an economic divide between Germany and weaker nations like Ireland, Portugal and Spain.
''Europe is continuing to diverge,'' said Alessandro Profumo, a former chief executive of UniCredit, one of the largest banks in Italy, and a member of the board at Bocconi University in Milan. ''This cannot continue.''
That could leave countries like Germany and France financing hefty new portions of aid for weaker countries for some time to come, a situation that would present fresh political challenges, economists said.
''What we can't afford is a transfer union'' in which taxpayers from strong countries continue to foot part of the bailout bill for weaker ones, said Roland Berger, the founder of Roland Berger Strategy Consultants and a former adviser to German national and state governments. ''The European population is simply not ready for it.''
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who exerts considerable sway in talks over assistance for Greece and other countries, might have difficulty explaining to voters why Greece should receive more help, even though Germany has benefited greatly from being part of the monetary union. And in France, Mr. Berger said, economic concerns are among the issues that have helped bolster the campaign of a right-wing candidate, Marine Le Pen of the National Front party.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Austerity measures in Greece have caused widespread protests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YIORGOS KARAHALIS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); DEBT CEILING (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); ITALY (79%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011



198 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Data Grows, And So Do Storage Sites

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- When people had only one or two computers, file sharing wasn't a big worry.
Now, gaining access to personal files is a chore for people who own an arsenal of computers, smartphones and tablets.
The annoyance of e-mailing documents to themselves or saving their work to a thumb drive has given new life to an old idea -- online storage. People simply save their Word documents, spreadsheets and photos in ''the cloud,'' a Web-based file cabinet accessible from any device that has an Internet connection. 
A number of companies focused on online storage are quickly gaining users and attention. New investment is driving a boomlet in the niche business, adding to an already lengthy list of competitors: Dropbox, YouSendIt.com, Cx.com, Box.net, 4Shared and SpiderOak. Apple may do something similar with its iCloud service, to be introduced on Monday.
Google began acclimating people to the notion of storing documents in the cloud with its Google Docs feature in 2005.
And online backup or storage services like MobileMe from Apple, Windows Live SkyDrive from Microsoft, Mozy from EMC and SugarSync are now familiar. What's changed is that more people have discovered a need for them.
Aaron Levie, chief executive of Box.net, an early online storage company based in Palo Alto, Calif., said that the increased adoption of mobile devices and ubiquity of online connections had created a bigger need for companies like his.
Nearly 60 percent of adults with online access own at least two Internet connected devices, according to Forrester Research. Just under 3 percent, or 4.5 million people, have at least nine different gadgets. If that seems to be a lot, think about this: a person may have a home computer and a work computer, and other members of the family may each have computers. Then count smartphones and tablets, and it's not hard to get to a large number of machines.
''It just sort of clicked,'' Mr. Levie. ''There ended up being a tremendous amount of interest.''
''Our vision is to simplify millions of peoples' lives,'' said Drew Houston, chief executive of Dropbox, where 25 million users upload files at the rate of 300 million a day. ''You don't have to worry that you have some files on your Mac, some stuff on your work computer and then some more on your iPhone.''
A growing number of people believe him. Dropbox stores 100 billion files on its servers. Box.net says it has six million users while Mozy says it has three million.
Meanwhile, storage companies benefit financially from a constant decline in costs as servers and data storage devices get cheaper each year. Leasing server space is five to eight times cheaper than when Box.net started in 2005, Mr. Levie said.
The sales pitch for online storage is that it lets users make changes to a Word file, for example, so that there is a single version available from both their work and home computers. It is a process known as synchronization, or sync for short. Users can also collaborate on a documents with colleagues or share video clips and photos with friends.
Many online storage services let users store a minimal amount of data free of charge. For more space, users pay up to $20 a month. (Dropbox gives users who enlist more customers additional storage.) Saved files are accessible from any Internet connected device.
Backing up files is a side benefit. Users no longer risk losing their children's photos if they forget their mobile phone in a cab or their homework if their hard drive crashes.
George Hamilton, an analyst with Yankee Group, said that online storage largely appealed to tech-oriented consumers, although it has been gaining more mainstream adoption recently.
But one thing still gives most consumers the willies: security. While there are no known cases of purloined or exposed documents on these services, well-publicized hackings and thefts at big companies like Sony, RSA Security and the e-mail marketing firm Epsilon Data Management worry the late adopters. ''I wouldn't want to put anything with a Social Security number on a cloud-based storage service,'' said Mr. Hamilton.
A security expert did recently complain to the Federal Trade Commission about how Dropbox encrypted files on its service. Dropbox's employees could get access to unencrypted files, he said, and he accused the company of failing to disclose this.
Mr. Houston called the criticism a ''rite of passage'' and emphasized that Dropbox takes security very seriously, including prohibiting employees from rooting through user files. However, the company, like any other, must turn over data if it is legally required to do so.
In general, Dropbox likens its protections to what banks and the military use. Files saved with Dropbox are encrypted during transmission to Amazon.com's servers, which the company leases. After reaching their destination, those files are divided into discrete blocks, no bigger than a few megabytes. Those blocks are then individually encrypted in storage.
Mr. Houston says he saves nearly everything to Dropbox including copies of his driver's license and passport.
''I have five or six laptops, and they are totally interchangeable,'' he said.
The field is flooded with competitors in part because no one company has a clear advantage in the market, which spans both consumers and business customers.
Two months ago, Amazon introduced Cloud Drive for storing all kinds of files, including digital music. Cx.com, another service, premiered in January with financing from TomorrowVentures, a venture capital company controlled by Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chairman and former chief executive.
Brad Robertson, chief executive of Cx.com, which has around 200,000 users and which is free as it tests its service, said he was not intimidated by all the competition. Focusing on security will help set his company apart from rivals, he said.
''If you take search or e-mail, or any feature where you have new products in the marketplace, you have a while before each one finds its uniqueness,'' said Mr. Robertson, whose company is based in Palo Alto, Calif. He acknowledged that eventually ''some get gobbled up and go away.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The co-founders of Dropbox, Drew Houston, left, and Arash Ferdowsi, in San Francisco, see their service as a way to simplify life. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); FLASH DRIVES (73%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011



199 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: A New Way to Measure Hospital Performance

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Medicare Plan for Payments Irks Hospitals'' (front page, May 31):
Medicare's proposal to pay hospitals based on the total per-beneficiary cost of care is both unnecessary and illogical. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services limits its hospital expenses by paying hospitals global amounts based on risk-adjusted disease categories (diagnosis-related groups); many complications, such as falls and catheter-associated infections, are not reimbursed. Further, C.M.S. currently monitors readmissions. All care under hospital control should, and already does, figure into payment rates. 
However, making hospitals responsible for care not under their control is bad policy and economics. Patients receive most of their services at facilities that are out of a hospital's control: physician offices, nursing homes, home health care, dialysis units and so forth. Further, patients may use multiple hospitals for their care. In addition, hospitals cannot guarantee patient compliance with discharge instructions.
I recognize that this proposal is designed to push hospitals to form integrated delivery systems; however, our health care system is a long way from being organized in such a fashion. Financially punishing hospitals that are not currently structured in this manner will only slow the process.
JOEL SHALOWITZ Evanston, Ill., May 31, 2011
The writer, a doctor of internal medicine, is a clinical professor and the director of the health industry management program at Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University.
To the Editor:
With your article describing Medicare's plans to judge hospitals by such factors as the treatment patients receive elsewhere after leaving the hospital, you have unwittingly identified a new ally for beleaguered teachers -- the medical community. Now healers will learn what it is like to be rated for outcomes over which you have limited control, just like the achievement of students. Amid the rampant critiques of education and teachers, I thank you for introducing us to fellow travelers. I plan to hug a doctor today.
DIANNE STILLMAN Bronx, June 1, 2011
The writer is a high school English teacher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); MEDICARE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (86%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (86%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); WRITERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); DIALYSIS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (68%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (58%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011



200 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Bank Shares Take a Beating, and It May Not Be Over Yet

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Michael Scanlon is tempted by bank stocks, truly he is.
They are cheap -- selling at near their lows for the year, and trading at well below the valuation of other large companies. But Mr. Scanlon, who helps oversee $7.5 billion for the John Hancock family of mutual funds in Boston and specializes in financial companies, is not about to give in and buy more shares.
''It's just not going to be a smooth ride,'' he said. ''You wake up every day and there's a new headline and a new concern.''
Bank stocks took another tumble late last week after Moody's, the credit rating firm, warned it might downgrade the debt of giants like Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo as the government eases back on support for the sector. Even as the market absorbed that news, reports that Goldman Sachs had been subpoenaed in an investigation by the Manhattan district attorney further unnerved investors, and sent that giant investment's bank's shares sinking. 
Pessimism about the sector was reinforced by weaker-than-expected economic data, including a bleak reading on unemployment on Friday.
What's more, well-known hedge fund investors like John A. Paulson and David Tepper have been quietly selling the big positions in the sector they had earlier amassed, a sign the smart money has already begun to bail.
Mr. Tepper, in particular, had made huge profits by scooping up beaten-down bank stocks when they bottomed out in late 2008 and early 2009 in the midst of the financial crisis and riding their subsequent recovery. But in the first quarter of 2011, he sold off about a third of his positions in Citigroup and Bank of America.
For Mr. Tepper, the timing was impeccable. Since the beginning of April, the KBW Bank Index has dropped 8 percent, compared with a much more modest 2 percent decline in the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Last week, bank stocks sank to their lowest point since early December.
For individual investors, who have long favored bank stocks as a source of dividends and at least the promise of stability, their recent performance has been a big disappointment. And few experts expect a turnaround anytime soon.
''I haven't seen investor sentiment this bad in a long time,'' said Jason Goldberg, a longtime bank stock analyst at Barclays. ''Not owning the group has been the right call, and people are skeptical about getting back in.''
By many measures, the sector is pretty cheap. Diversified banks are trading at about 9.4 times earnings, compared with a multiple of 12.4 for the broader S.& P. 500, according to FactSet Research.
But then, they may deserve to be selling at a discount. Besides the worries about a possible debt downgrade and the investigations into the role they played in the financial crisis, major banks are facing headwinds on many fronts.
For starters, federal regulations passed last year are set to cut deeply into revenue on everything from debit card transactions to trading on Wall Street.
The restriction on debit card fees, known as the Durbin Amendment after the senator who proposed it, Dick Durbin of Illinois, could alone cost the top 25 banks roughly $8 billion in lost revenue, Mr. Goldberg said.
The new regulations are set to go into effect on July 21, although Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, is pushing a proposal on Capitol Hill that could come up for a vote as early as next week that would delay their start by 15 months.
Even if Mr. Tester wins a reprieve for the banks, other rules in the broader Dodd-Frank bill, which overhauled financial regulations, could cost the industry another $8 billion, according to Mr. Goldberg.
In addition, new international rules now being developed to require major institutions to hold more capital as a buffer against future financial crises will also erode profitability. That is because money set aside as ballast is cash that will not be available to lend out or pay dividends or buy back stock.
More than any of the changes hurtling toward them is a more fundamental problem that banks face -- revenue is stuck in neutral. And a huge chunk of profits is not coming from the actual business of lending money, but instead represents gains from the release of reserves set aside in the past for possible loan losses. As these costs have eased, that money for a rainy day has fallen to the bottom line.
In the first quarter of 2011, the top 20 banks earned $27.5 billion in pretax income. Nearly $11 billion, or 40 percent of that, came from the release of reserves, according to Mr. Goldberg. The proportion was even higher in the fourth quarter of 2010, when it hit 54 percent.
While that money has helped camouflage anemic revenue and lackluster loan growth, it is hardly a long-term strategy for sustainable profit increases.
Then there are the legal headaches. The biggest banks face another threat from an investigation into mortgage servicing abuses by all 50 state attorneys general, who are pressing for a settlement of $20 billion or more. The banks themselves are holding out for a much more modest payment of $5 billion, and though the momentum has shifted in favor of the banks lately, the uncertainty about how big the inevitable hit will be has further undermined shares.
Even if the banks are able to avoid a giant settlement, a potentially more expensive headache is the effort by private investors to force them to buy back soured mortgage securities. The industry has already set aside billions for these claims, known as ''put-backs,'' but tens of billions in potential losses still loom.
As badly as the broader sector has performed, some banks have held up better than others. Bank of America has been among the worst performers, falling 15 percent since the beginning of April to close at $11.28 Friday, hurt by a lackluster first quarter and persistent worries that its huge portfolio of troubled mortgages will sap earnings for years to come.
Similarly, Wells Fargo has declined 15 percent to $26.86, another victim of mortgage-related worries, as well as its dependence on the United States economy for the vast bulk of its business.
Citigroup, which has more exposure to faster-growing international markets, has fallen 10 percent to $39.85 over the same period, although results in its investment-banking business were weak in the first quarter. It also resorted to a 1-for-10 reverse stock split to lift its share price out of the single digits, a move usually reserved for penny stocks and other shaky investments.
JPMorgan, at $41.57 a share, is also off 10 percent, although analysts say its underlying earnings power is much stronger than that of Bank of America or Citigroup, and it has been using extra capital to buy back stock and raise its dividend. In fact, the Federal Reserve vetoed Bank of America's plan to increase its dividend in March, even as it permitted rivals like JPMorgan, Wells Fargo and others to raise theirs.
Goldman Sachs, meanwhile, ended the week at $135.33, not far from its 52-week low of $129.50.
''It's hard to look past what's going on right now,'' said Mr. Scanlon, the John Hancock analyst. ''Who knows what I'm going to read tomorrow?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Scanlon: ''It's just not going to be a smooth ride.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) CHART: Lost Cachet: Bank stocks have lagged behind the overall market this year. (Source: Bloomberg) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDEX FUNDS (77%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); SUBPOENAS (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FACTSET RESEARCH SYSTEMS INC (50%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); FDS (NYSE) (50%); FDS (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (50%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

 
