

401 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: A Failing Dance Presenter Looks to a Gala for Rescue

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
Fred Colby has been getting a lot of fan letters these days. Mr. Colby is not a movie star or even a famous violinist. He is the energetic and visionary director of the San Diego Foundation for the Performing Arts, perhaps the most established presenter of dance in the western United States. The 10-year-old foundation has put on highly regarded yearly series of dance by major ballet, modern and ethnic troupes from around the world in two theaters in San Diego.
But last week Mr. Colby announced the cancellation of its season, which was to have included performances by the companies of Mark Morris, Paul Taylor and others. Unless it can raise $200,000 by Oct. 20 , Mr. Colby contends, the foundation will have to close permanently. 
 American dance companies have long used revenues from touring to subsidize their New York seasons and keep their companies solvent, particularly as performances throughout the country have dwindled during the recession. But the letters that have been pouring in to Mr. Colby since he announced the impending close have suggested that dance companies have a special fondness for the institution.
 
A Letter From Arpino
 Gerald Arpino, the director of the Joffrey Ballet, wrote, calling the foundation "the kind of arts presenter we need in America -- honest, practical, thoughtful." Jill Satterfield, the director of the Momix modern dance troupe, wrote, "It would be an indescribable loss to not have you there, for both audience and performer." Among the other letter writers were Mr. Taylor, Eliot Feld, Helgi Tomasson and Lar Lubovitch.
The Lyons Opera Ballet will dance for no fee tomorrow in a fund-raising gala for the foundation at the Spreckels Theater in San Diego, which will also charge no fee. Members of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees will donate their services, and free rooms for the dancers have been offered by the Westgate Hotel in San Diego.
The foundation has had its good and bad times, but nothing quite prepared Mr. Colby, known as an outspoken advocate of dance, for the impact of the recession on ticket sales this year. This season, he said, sales were down even for the Kirov Ballet from St. Petersburg, averaging 82 percent capacity. "And underwriting was impossible to get, even for them," he said. "That should have been a signal."
 
From the Endowment: Zero
 The foundation also recently lost a $40,000 pledge and expected funds from the California Arts Council. For the first time in nine years, there was no money from the National Endowment for the Arts.
"I think dance as a whole is probably at the most critical point in its history today, particularly American dance," Mr. Colby said. "But we are all interdependent. None of us can make it alone."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SAN DIEGO FOUNDATION FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS SAN DIEGO FOUNDATION (83%); CALIFORNIA ARTS COUNCIL (75%); JOFFREY BALLET (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN DIEGO FOUNDATION FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS SAN DIEGO FOUNDATION (83%); CALIFORNIA ARTS COUNCIL (75%); JOFFREY BALLET (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES DANCE (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); BALLET (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); DANCERS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TICKET SALES (68%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER; COLBY, FRED MARK MORRIS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1992



402 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
No Knockouts

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

 BODY:
The bottom line of the first Presidential debate, as viewed from this corner, is that it is unlikely to have any substantial effect on the course of the campaign. Nobody scored a knockout.
Governor Clinton dealt powerfully with President Bush's main tactic in these closing weeks: to attack Mr. Clinton's patriotism. The Governor invoked an act of courage by Mr. Bush's father that in fact, though he did not say so, shamed the son. 
 Senator Prescott Bush stood up to Joe McCarthy, Mr. Clinton said. He was referring to Prescott Bush's vote to censure his Republican colleague, Senator McCarthy. He did not need to draw the obvious contrast: with George Bush's red-baiting effort to paint Mr. Clinton as some kind of crypto-Communist.
Last week Mr. Bush was spurred by Robert Dornan, a California Congressman so far to the right that he makes Pat Robertson look sane, to suggest that there was something unpatriotic about Mr. Clinton's behavior while he was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford during the Vietnam War.
The President returned to that slimy theme last night. He said he found it "impossible to understand how an American can demonstrate against his own country in a foreign land." Of course Mr. Clinton and millions of others who protested were not against their country; they were against the policy that was uselessly killing Americans, Vietnamese, Cambodians and Laotians.
In fact, like the young Bill Clinton, Senator Prescott Bush turned against the Vietnam War. But no one pointed that out last night.
Mr. Bush's big surprise was his statement that if re-elected he would make James Baker a domestic czar. Mr. Baker has been the invisible man in the campaign, managing it behind closed doors. But no one who knows his part in the invention of Willie Horton as an "issue" in 1988 doubts his authorship of the recent red-baiting. Mr. Bush's effective admission of dependence on him was striking.
The most cynical answer Mr. Bush gave was about the tragedy going on in Bosnia, the killings and "ethnic cleansing" by the attacking Serbs. "I am going to stand by and use the moral persuasion of the United States," the President said last night. To date he has done a lot of standing by and said or done nothing by way of moral persuasion.
Vying with the comment on Bosnia for cynicism was Mr. Bush's attempt to claim credit for civil rights legislation that he stubbornly opposed until his embarrassment over the Clarence Thomas hearings forced him to sign the bill.
The Thomas nomination was the subject of a remarkable comment by Ross Perot. He said an "all-time low in our country" was the confrontation between Justice Thomas and Anita Hill in the confirmation hearings, and the senators on the committee "should hang their heads in shame." He evidently meant the Republican senators who attacked Professor Hill.
Mr. Perot was altogether a plus in the debate. He was folksy, and he was effective. He kept bringing an air of reality to lofty discussions.
"We are sitting on a ticking bomb, folks," Mr. Perot said of the country's financial situation. That won applause from the audience at Washington University, St. Louis, and I imagine it scored with the television audience -- for a simple reason. It was true.
If a debating judge were scoring this one, I think he would make Mr. Perot the winner. Even someone with knowledge of his darker side -- his paranoid investigations of "enemies" and the rest -- cheered his direct statement about racial divisions: "If you hate people, I don't want your vote."
But voters may get a kick out of Ross Perot and not vote for him for President. Moreover, his brutally effective criticism of American policy over the last dozen years -- the policy that has led us to economic disaster -- is likely to hurt President Bush and help Governor Clinton.
Mr. Bush got nowhere in his efforts to shed his image of economic ineptitude. "There's some fairly good news out there," he said flabbily. He was defensive and whiny rather than Presidential.
Governor Clinton seemed in charge: careful, fair, controlled. And in the end he defined the real choice: "the choice between hope and fear."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); VIET NAM (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); VIET NAM (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; VIETNAM WAR POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); LEWIS, ANTHONY; LEWIS, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CLARENCE THOMAS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1992



403 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Clinton Doesn't Lose

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
"You have attacked my patriotism," counterpunched Bill Clinton, in the most dramatic moment of the first Presidential debate of 1992.
President Bush had carefully said that Clinton's organizing anti-war demonstrations abroad as a youth was "a question of character and judgment," and claimed not to be impugning his patriotism. 
 Clinton was well prepared. He defined the President's attack as a low blow, and delivered the cry of foul he had rehearsed: "When Joe McCarthy went around this country attacking people's patriotism, he was wrong . . . and a Senator from Connecticut stood up to him named Prescott Bush. Your father was right to stand up to Joe McCarthy; you were wrong to attack my patriotism."
A few minutes later, Mr. Bush had a chance to stand his ground: "I didn't question the man's patriotism. I questioned his judgment and character. . . . What I don't accept is demonstrating and organizing demonstrations in a foreign country when your country's at war."
That was the President's main shot at his challenger, and he kept at it, and will surely press the charge in the weeks remaining. But it wasn't a knockout blow; it was neatly blocked and countered.
A debate's result is defined by such moments and by general impressions. Another memorable moment, to me, went by in a flash: It was the President, responding to a question about continuing to keep 150,000 troops in Europe, suggesting that "if you throw another 50,000 kids on the street because of cutting recklessly in troop levels, you're going to put a lot more out of work."
Are we really keeping forces in uniform to keep them at work? Has the Defense Department really become a giant W.P.A.? That's been the level of the Bush-Baker campaign, and it upsets conservatives; had Mr. Clinton made such a remark, it would have been a much-derided gaffe.
The President had a bit of news to break: He announced with pride that James Baker would "be kind of the economic coordinator of all the domestic side, and that includes all the economic side, all the training side, and bring the program together" in his next term.
That was curious; only six days ago, the President told interviewer Larry King that James Baker would be returning to the State Department after the campaign. Apparently that turned some people off, or Mr. Bush felt he needed to offer some proof that he was serious about getting the domestic side organized next time. That sudden switch shows the desperation, or the realism, of the President.
Clinton is probably pleased at the way he wove his drug-busted brother and various other real people into his answers; that is supposed to show he's warm and human. Some people go for that; its calculation strikes me as the essence of slickness. That is not to knock handlers as a breed; good Clinton rehearsals blunted the Moscow attack, and Ed Rollins, the coach scorned by Perot, must have had a good laugh at the way the billionaire wasted his summation by not looking at the camera with the red light, thereby not looking the American people in the eye.
I won't trouble the reader with issue-by-issue analysis, because that's not what decides debates. Cut to the chase: Who won?
General impression: Bush was the most comfortable under pressure, more in command of his weaker material, fortunate in not being asked about Iranian arms for hostages or his buildup of Saddam now mushrooming into Iraqgate.
Perot was an amusing sideshow, a jester ("I'm all ears") with some intelligent gibes ("I don't have any experience running up a $4 trillion debt"), whose ratings should climb because he was not seriously engaged by panel or opponents.
Clinton, not asked about the draft, was articulate and surprisingly concise; he has Kennedy's thumb and forefinger gesture down pat, but has neither the charm of Kennedy nor the relaxed demeanor under pressure that Mr. Bush demonstrated anew.
Clinton won because he did not lose. In boxing, the champ keeps the title if the decision is a draw; not so in politics. Bush lost because he did not win; he did not force his opponent into some exploitable gaffe.
It's not over yet, but if the President cannot flatten the challenger in the next two matches, it's over.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: W P I (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (62%); CONSERVATISM (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1992



404 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 6095 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Surrounding Scene;
Who Got More Laughs; Who Ate Chili Macaroni

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CLAYTON, Mo., Oct. 11

 BODY:
When great things are at stake, small things count.
The three Presidential candidates may have discussed serious matters on stage at Washington University, but off stage, the level of discourse was deeply, awesomely petty. 
 Up until shortly before the candidates walked out to their lecterns, President Bush's backers were still arguing about how he and his rivals should be introduced.
Since there were three debaters and two doors, the organizers wanted the candidates to be prepositioned on stage before the event began. But the Bush camp wanted the President to be announced and to walk in from the wings while the cameras were rolling and after his two challengers were in place.
Finally, a coin was flipped. Gov. Bill Clinton, who was more worried about a hoarse voice than a grand entrance, won. The debate began with the three candidates already in place.
 
Star-Crossed Spinners
Mary Matalin, the deputy manager of the Bush campaign, and James Carville, the chief political strategist for Gov. Bill Clinton, have been for months in an awkward position, professional enemies but romantically much more than just friends.
In the hall where the post-debate webs were being spun, Mr. Carville was hot in the middle of a prolonged bit of Bush bashing, unaware that Ms. Matalin was three feet away, back to him, facing her own gaggle of cameras and microphones, and knocking Mr. Clinton about.
Mr. Carville, who is a nervous man, glanced suddenly around at one point. As his gaze tracked the scene behind his shoulder, he caught Ms. Matalin in the corner of his eye. His subsequent double-take was so violent, onlookers worried he might have wrenched his neck. But neither he nor Ms. Matalin missed even a syllable, as each spun on, in their passing orbits.
 
Measuring the Ease Factor
Perhaps it was simply that, in subliminal terms, the debate was clearly a case of two against one (or maybe it was the fact that he chose to eat a plate of chili macaroni for lunch on Air Force One), but all night Mr. Bush seemed at least a little defensive, and Mr. Clinton and Ross Perot at least a little bit cocky.
Time after time, the rounds went like this: Mr. Perot, all attitude and aphorisms, would snap off 60 seconds of near-perfect sound bites. Mr. Clinton, who is always at his best at night, would whip off a couple of hundred words of change-and-promise speech chunks.
When it came to Mr. Bush's turn, he would almost invariably begin on the defensive, with a word like "Well," or "Now," and continuing in that vein. The phrases that occurred most regularly in his answers were ones that sought to persuade that, under George Bush, things haven't really been so bad as all that: "We're doing a little better," "We're making some progress there," and "We're still in the fight."
The ending of the night underscored this feeling. At the formal conclusion of the debate, all three men stayed on stage to shake hands with each other and with the panelist of reporters.
But then, Mr. Bush left the stage to go meet and greet his family members and friends in the right front rows of the audience. As he was doing that, the Clinton and Perot families swarmed onstage in a friendly embrace that resembled a cocktail party, with Mr. Perot hugging Chelsea Clinton (who was on crutches, because of a dancing injury) and Hillary Clinton chatting happily with Margot Perot.
 
Perot's Heavy Hand
In Ross Mr. Perot's first debate, his big problem seemed to be that he did not know what to do with his hands. He had not, after all, had years of coaching from an expert like Roger Ailes in the fine art of hand gestures, as George Bush had.
In the beginning, he tried clasping his hands behind his back, like a Naval man at ease. By mid-debate, he found he could get laughs from the crowd by waving his arms in a wild windmill motion.
When he made a joke about his plan to raise the gas tax -- "If there's a fairer way, I'm all ears" -- he noticed the audience laughing and pointed his hands toward the protruding pair, as though to say, "See, here are my big ears, folks, it's a joke."
But, for the most part, Mr. Perot stood behind his lectern with his right hand planted firmly and saucily on his hip, in the manner of another wealthy screen figure who had a way with one-liners: Mae West.
 
If Applause-O-Meters Voted
Judging by the applause and laughs in the hall, Mr. Perot was the clear winner for sheer entertainment value.
The audience loved his Washington bashing. They laughed when he said that, if he battled the behemoth of the bureaucracy, first off, "everyone in Washington would faint because they have never seen anything happen in that town."
And he trashed the "alligator-shoe crowd" of lobbyists and influence peddlers, promising that if he took over they "would wind up in the Smithsonian."
"I don't have any experience in running up a $4 trillion debt," he noted when the President bragged about his experience.
By the time this kinder, funnier Perot was through, the applause measured 14 times for the Texas billionaire, 10 times for Mr. Clinton and nine times for Mr. Bush.
Mr. Perot also earned eight solid laughs and several chuckles, while Mr. Clinton got one chuckle and Mr. Bush got none.
The evident popularity of Mr. Perot made him the evening's 800-pound bantam rooster, the candidate no one dared to offend. Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton nodded at his arguments, smiled at his country homilies, laughed at his japes and never came close to challenging him on a single point.
The Republican and Democratic spinners afterward took the novel step of actually praising the Texan.
 
The Haircut Strategy
After the debate, Mr. Perot declined to participate in the spinning, but he emphasized that he had not prepared formally. He said he had spent the weekend riding horses, playing with his grandchildren and getting a haircut. He had sought debate advice from two barbers, he said, Bob and Chuck, both Native Americans.
"I was rehearsed by two full-blooded American Indians," Mr. Perot said, "and let met tell you, when you're in the chair with those guys, you're real nice to them."
 
Getting a Good Seat
The desperate Bush camp dropped all pretense today that their role here was anything other than crass hucksterism.
The official White House schedule for the traveling Bush entourage -- ordinarily a straightforward, formal document -- featured a map showing the location of makeshift offices with televisions for mid-level and senior Bush officials at Washington University.
The offices were listed as "Spinners Viewing Area" and "Senior Spinners Viewing Area."
 
Rising to the Occasion
It was Orson Swindle's first experience with pre-debate spin, a delicate art in which the various sides try to make the case that their candidate has won before he has spoken a word.
It took Mr. Perot's spokesman a while to catch on to reporters' trivial pursuits. When a reporter asked him whether Ross Perot would have a platform, Mr. Swindle waxed serious: "He's got a book, an economic plan he's put out ----"
"No," the reporter explained patiently. "Will he have a booster, a platform to stand on because he's so short, like Michael Dukakis did in '88?"
Mr. Swindle replied like an old hand at the spin game. "I don't think so," he said. "He stands pretty tall in his own right."
Undaunted, the reporter accosted Sharon Holman, a longtime Perot aide: "Will Mr. Perot use the portable toilet in his dressing room?"
 
A Dizzying Spin
The prize for the longest spinning went to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, who spun for a solid hour before the debate began, mostly about things he said he had told Governor Clinton to say.
 
Turning Up Spin Cycle
It was one more example of the Clinton campaign's policy of quick response that they began their post-debate spin 10 minutes before the debate ended.
Reporters were still listening to Mr. Bush's last answer and the closing statements when a swarm of Clinton aides and Democratic officials descended on the gymnasium where reporters were working.
For several minutes, no Bush aides were in sight.
Paul Begala, a Clinton strategist began the spin by saying, "It was over 12 minutes after it began," and an hour later, Stan Greenberg, a Clinton poll-taker noted: "The ultimate spin tonight was that there was no spin necessary."
PEROT: Anytime you think you want to legalize drugs go to a neonatal unit, if you can get in. They're between 100 and 200 percent capacity up and down the East Coast. And the reason is crack babies being born. The baby's in the hospital 42 days, the typical cost to you and me is $125,000. Again and again and again the mother disappears in three days and the child becomes a ward of the state because he's permanently and genetically damaged. Just look at those little children and if anybody can even think about legalizing drugs, they've lost me.
Now let's look at priorities. You know, we went on the Libyan raid. You remember that one? Because we were worried to death that Qaddafi might be building up chemical weapons. We've got chemical warfare being conducted against our children on the streets in this country all day, every day and we don't have the will to stamp it out. And again, if I get up there, if you send me, we're going to have some blunt talks about this. And we're really going to get down to the trenches and say is this one you want to talk about or fix, because talk won't do it, folks. There are guys that couldn't get a job, third shift in a Dairy Queen, driving BMW's and Mercedes selling drugs. And these old boys are not going to quit easy.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, one minute.
CLINTON: Like Mr. Perot I have held crack babies in my arms, but I know more about this, I think, than anybody else up here because I have a brother who is a recovering drug addict. I'm very proud of him, but I can tell you this: If drugs were legal I don't think he'd be alive today. I am adamantly opposed to legalizing drugs. He is alive today because of the criminal justice system. That's a mistake.
What should we do? First we ought to prevent more of this on the street. Thirty years ago there were three policemen for every crime, now there are three crimes for every policeman. We need 100,000 more police on the street. I have a plan for that. Secondly, we ought to have treatment on demand. Thirdly, we ought to have boot camp for first-time nonviolent offenders so they can get discipline and treatment and education and get re-connected to the community before they are severed and sent to prison where they can learn how to be first-class criminals. There is a crime bill that lamentably was blocked from passage once again, mostly by Republicans in the United States Senate which would have addressed some of these problems. That crime bill is going to be one of my highest priorities next January, if I become President.
MODERATOR: Next question is to you, Mr. Perot; you have two minutes to answer it, and John will ask it.
 
Racial Division
 Q: Mr. Perot, racial division continues to tear apart our great cities, the last episode being this thing in Los Angeles. Why is this still happening in America, and what would you do to end it?
PEROT: This is a relevant question here tonight. First thing I'd do is, during political campaigns I would urge everybody to stop trying to split this country into fragments and appeal to the differences between us, and then wonder why the melting pot all broke into pieces after November 3. We are all in this together. We ought to love one another because united teams win and divided teams lose. If we can't love one another, we ought to get along with one another. And if you can't get fair, just recognize we're all stuck with one another because nobody's going anywhere, right? Now, that ought to get everybody back up to let's get along together and make it work.
Our diversity is a strength; we've turned it into a weakness. Now again the White House is a bully pulpit. I think whoever is in the White House should just make it absolutely unconscionable and inexcusable, and if anybody's in the middle of a speech at a, you know, one of these conventions, I would expect the candidate to go out and lift him off the stage if he starts preaching hate. Because we don't have time for it. See, our differences are our strengths. We have got to pull together. In athletics we know it. See, divided teams lose; united teams win. We have got to unite and pull together, and there's nothing we can't do, but if we sit around blowing all this energy out the window, on racial strife and hatred, we are stuck with a sure loser because we have been a melting pot; we're becoming more and more of a melting pot; let's make it a strength, not a weakness.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, one minute.
CLINTON: I grew up in the segregated South, thankfully raised by a grandfather with almost no formal education, but with a heart of gold who taught me early that all people were equal in the eyes of God. I saw the winds of hatred divide people and keep the people of my state poorer than they would have been, spiritually and economically. And I've done everything I could in my public life to overcome racial divisions. We don't have a person to waste in this country. We are being murdered economically because we have too many dropouts, we have too many low-birthweight babies, we have too many drug addicts as kids, we have too much violence, we are too divided by race, by income, by region. And I have devoted a major portion of this campaign to going across this country and looking for opportunities to go to white groups and African-American groups and Latino groups and Asian-American groups and say the same thing. If the American people cannot be brought together, we can't turn this country around. If we can come together, nothing, nothing, can stop us.
MODERATOR: Mr. President, one minute.
BUSH: Well, I think Governor Clinton is committed. I do think it's fair to note -- he can rebut it -- that Arkansas is one of the few states that doesn't have any civil rights legislation. I've tried to use the White House as the bully pulpit, speaking out against discrimination. We've passed two very forward-looking civil rights bills. It's not going to be all done by legislation but I do think that you need to make an appeal every time you can to eliminate racial divisions and discrimination. And I'll keep on doing that and pointing to some legislative accomplishment to back it up.
I have to take 10 seconds here at the end -- the red light isn't on yet -- to say to Ross Perot, please don't say to the D.E.A. agents on the street that we don't have the will to fight drugs. Please -- I have watched these people. The same for our local law-enforcement people. We're backing them up at every way we possibly can. But maybe you meant that some in the country don't have the will to fight it. But those that are out there on the front line, as you know -- you've been a strong backer of law enforcement -- really I just want to clear that up, have the will to fight it and, frankly, some of them are giving their lives.
MODERATOR: Time, Mr. President. All right, let's go now to another subject, the subject of health. The first question, for two minutes, is to President Bush, and John will ask it.
 
Fighting AIDS
 Q: Mr. President, yesterday tens of thousands of people paraded past the White House to demonstrate their concern about the disease AIDS; a celebrated member of your commission, Magic Johnson, quit, saying that there was too much inaction. Where is this widespread feeling coming from that your Administration is not doing enough about AIDS?
BUSH: It's coming from the political process. We have increased funding for AIDS, we've doubled it, on research and on every other aspect of it. My request for this year was $4.9 billion for AIDS, 10 times as much per AIDS victims as per cancer victim. I think that we're showing the proper compassion and concern, so I can't tell you where it's coming from but I am very much concerned about AIDS and I believe that we've got the best researchers in the world out there at N.I.H. working the problem. We're funding them. I wish there was more money, but we're funding them far more than any time in the past, and we're going to keep on doing that.
I don't know, I was a little disappointed in Magic because he came to me and I said, "Now, if you see something we're not doing, get a hold of me, call me, let me know." He went to one meeting and then we heard that he was stepping down. So he's been replaced by Mary Fisher, who electrified the Republican convention by talking about the compassion and the concern that we feel. It was a beautiful moment and I think she'll do a first-class job on that commission.
So I think the appeal is yes, we care. And the other thing is part of AIDS -- it's one of the few diseases where behavior matters. And I once called on somebody, "Well, change your behavior; if the behavior you're using is prone to cause AIDS, change the behavior." Next thing I know, one of these Act-Up groups is out saying, "Bush ought to change his behavior." You can't talk about it rationally; the extremes are hurting the AIDS cause. To go into a Catholic mass, in a beautiful cathedral in New York, under the cause of helping in AIDS and start throwing condoms around in the mass, I'm sorry, I think it sets back the cause. We cannot move to the extreme. We've got to care, we've got to continue everything we can at the Federal and the local level. Barbara, I think, is doing a superb job in destroying the myth about AIDS. And all of us are in this fight together, all of us care. Do not go to the extreme.
MODERATOR: One minute, Mr. Perot.
PEROT: First I think Mary Fisher was a great choice; we're lucky to have her heading the Commission. Secondly, I think one thing -- if we're set to do the job, I would sit down with F.D.A., look exactly where we are. Then I would really focus on let's get these things out. If you're going to die, you don't have to go through this 10-year cycle the F.D.A. goes through on new drugs. I believe the people with AIDS are more than willing to take that risk, and we could be moving out to the human population a whole lot faster than we are on some of these new drugs. So I would think we could expedite the problem there. Let me go back a minute to racial devisiveness. All-time low in our country was the Judge Thomas-Anita Hill hearings and those Senators ought to be hanging their heads in shame for what they did there. The second thing, how many times in your life do you get to talk to a whole country? Let me just say this to all of America. If you hate people, I don't want your vote. That's how strongly I feel about it.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, one minute.
CLINTON: Over 150,000 Americans have died of AIDS, well over a million and a quarter of Americans are H.I.V. positive. We need to put one person in charge of the battle against AIDS, to cut across all the agencies that deal with it.
We need to accelerate the drug approval process. We need to fully fund the act named for that wonderful boy Ryan White to make sure we're doing everything we can on research and treatment.
And the President should lead a national effort to change behavior, to keep our children alive in the schools. Responsible behavior to keep people alive. This is a matter of life and death. I've worked in my state to reduce teen pregnancy and illness among children, and I know it's tough.
The reason Magic Johnson resigned from the AIDS Commission is because the statement you heard tonight from Mr. Bush is the longest and best statement he's made about it in public.
I'm proud about -- I'm proud of what we did at the Democratic convention, putting two H.I.V. positive people on the platform, and I'm proud of the leadership that I'm going to bring to this country in dealing with the AIDS crisis.
MODERATOR: New question for Mr. Perot. You have two minutes to answer and Ann will ask it.
 
Working in Washington
 Q: Mr. Perot, even if you've got what people say are the guts to take on changes in the most popular and the most sacred of the entitlements, Medicare, people say you haven't a prayer of actually getting anything passed in Washington. Since a President isn't a Lone Ranger how in the world can you make some of those unpopular changes?
PEROT: Two ways: No. 1, if I get there it will be a very unusual and historical event because the people, not the special interests, put me there. I will have a unique mandate. I have said again and again, and this really upsets the establishment in Washington, that we're going to inform the people in detail on the issues through an electronic town hall so that they really know what's going on. They will want to do what's good for our country. Now all these fellows with $1,000 suits and alligator shoes, running up and down the halls of Congress, that make policy now -- the lobbyists, the PAC guys, the foreign lobbyists and what have you -- they'll be over there in the Smithsonian, you know, because we're going to get rid of them, and the Congress will be listening to the people and the American people are willing to have fair, shared sacrifice.
They're not as stupid as Washington thinks they are. The American people are bright, intelligent, caring, loving people who want a great country for their children and grandchildren and they will make those sacrifices. So I welcome that challenge and, just watch, because if the American people send me there, we'll get it done. Now everybody will faint in Washington -- they've never seen anything happen in that town. This is a town where the White House says, "Congress did it." Congress says, "The White House did it." And I'm sitting there, too. Well, who else could be around, you know. Then when they get off by themselves they said, "Nobody did it." And yet the cash register's empty and it used to have our money -- the taxpayer's money -- in it, and we didn't get the results. No, we'll get it done. We'll have to ----
MODERATOR: Governor, one minute.
CLINTON: Ross, that's a great speech but it's not quite that simple. I mean, look at the facts. Both parties in Washington, the President and the Congress, have cut Medicare. The average senior citizen is spending a higher percentage of income on health care today than they were in 1965 before Medicare came in. The President's got another proposal that will require them to pay $400 a year more for the next five years, but if you don't have the guts to control costs by changing the insurance system, in taking on the bureaucracies and the regulation of health care in the private and public sector, you can't fix this problem. Costs will continue to spiral and just remember this folks, a lot of folks on Medicare are out there every day making the choice between food and medicine -- not poor enough for Medicare, Medicaid, not wealthy enough to buy their medicine. I've met them, people like Mary Annie and Edward Davis in Nashua, N.H., all over this country -- they cannot even buy medicine, so let's be careful. When we talk about cutting health care costs, let's start with the insurance companies and the people that are making a killing instead of making our people healthy.
MODERATOR: One minute President Bush.
BUSH: Well, in the first place I'd like to clear up something, because every four years the Democrats go around and say, hey, Republicans are going to cut Social Security and Medicare. They started it again. I'm the President that stood up and said don't mess with Social Security. And I'm not going to and we haven't, and we are not going to go after the Social Security recipient. I have one difference with Mr. Perot on that, because I don't think we need to touch Social Security. What we do need to do, though, is control the growth of these mandatory programs and Ross properly says, O.K., there's some pain in that. But Governor Clinton refuses to touch that. Simply refuses. So what we've got to do is control it -- the growth, let it grow for inflation, let it grow for the amount of new people added, population, and then hold the line. And I believe that is the way you get the deficit down, not by the tax-and-spend program that we hear every four years whether it's Mondale, Dukakis, whoever else it is. I just don't believe we ought to do that, so hold the line on these -- on Social Security and put a cap on the growth of the mandatory program.
MODERATOR: New question. It is for Governor Clinton, two-minute answer. Sandy will ask it.
 
Costs of Health Care
 Q: Governor Clinton, Ann Compton has brought up Medicare. I remember in 1965 when Wilbur Mills of Arkansas, the chairman of Ways and Means, was pushing it through the Congress. The charge against it was it socialized medicine. One, you never --
CLINTON: Mr. Bush made that charge.
Q: Well, he served with him two years later in 1967 where I first met him. The second point though is that it is now skyrocketing out of control. People want it; we say it's going bonkers. Is not the Oregon plan applied to Medicaid rationing the proper way to go, even though the Federal Government last August ruled that violated the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990?
CLINTON: I thought the Oregon plan should at least have been allowed to be tried because at least the people in Oregon were trying to do something. But let me go back to the main point, Sander. Mr. Bush is trying to run against Lyndon Johnson and Jimmy Carter and everybody in the world but me in this race. I have proposed a managed-competition plan for health care.
I will say again you cannot control health-care costs simply by cutting Medicare. Look what's happened. The Federal Government has cut Medicare and Medicaid in the last few years. States have cut Medicaid. We've done it in Arkansas under budget pressures. But what happens? More and more people get on the rolls as poverty increases. If you don't control the health-care costs of the entire system, you cannot get control of it. Look at our program. We set up a national ceiling on health-care costs tied to inflation and population growth set by health-care providers, not by the Government. We provide for managed competition, not Government models, in every state. And we control private and public health-care costs. Now, just a few days ago a bipartisan commission of Republicans and Democrats -- more Republicans than Democrats -- said my plan will save the average family $1,200 a year more than the Bush plan will by the year 2000; $2.2 trillion in the next 12 years; $400 billion a year by the end of this decade. I've got a plan to control health-care costs. But you can't just do it by cutting Medicare. You have to take on the insurance companies, the bureaucracies and you have to have cost controls, yes. But keep in mind we are spending 30 percent more on health care than any country in the world, any other country. And yet we have 35 million people uninsured. We have no preventive and primary care. The Oregon plan is a good start, if the Federal Government's going to continue to abandon its responsibilities. I say if Germany can cover everybody and keep costs under inflation, if Hawaii can cover 98 percent of their people at lower-health care costs than the rest of us, if Rochester, N.Y., can do it with two-thirds of the cost to the rest of us, America can do it, too. I'm tired of being told we can't. I say we can. We can do better and we must.
MODERATOR: President Bush, one minute.
BUSH: Well, I don't have time in 30 seconds or whatever -- minute to talk --
MODERATOR: One minute.
BUSH: About our health care reform plan. Oregon plan made some good sense. But it's easy to dismiss the concerns of the disabled. As President, I have to be sure that those waivers which we're approving all over the place are covered under the law. Maybe we can work it out.
But the Americans for Disabilities Act -- speaking about sound and sensible civil-rights legislation -- was the most -- foremost piece of legislation passed in modern times. And so we do have something more than a technical problem.
Governor Clinton clicked off the things -- you've got to take on insurance companies and bureaucracies -- he failed to take on somebody else: the malpractice-suit people. Those that bring these lawsuits -- against these frivolous trial-lawyer lawsuits that are running the cost of medical care up by 25 to 50 billion.
And he refuses to put anything, controls, on these crazy lawsuits. If you want to help somebody, don't run the costs up by making doctors have to have five or six tests where one would do for fear of being sued. Or have somebody along the highway not stop to pick up a guy and help him because he's afraid a trial lawyer will come along and -- and sue him.
We're suing each other too much and caring for each other too little.
MODERATOR: Mr. Perot, one minute.
PEROT: We've got the most expensive health-care system in the world. It ranks behind 15 other nations in -- when we come to life expectancy, and 22 other nations when we come to infant mortality. So we don't have the best.
Pretty simple, folks. If you're paying more and you don't have the best, if all else fails, go copy the people who have the best who spend less, right? Well, we can do better than that.
Again, we've got plans lying all over the place in Washington -- nobody ever implements them. Now I'm back to square one if you want to stop talking about it and do it, then I'll be glad to go up there and we'll get it done.
But if you just want to keep the music going, just stay traditional this next time around, and this -- four years from now you'll have everybody blaming everybody else for a bad health-care system.
Talk is cheap, words are plentiful, deeds are precious. Let's get on with it.
MODERATOR: That was, in fact, the final question and answer. We're now going to move to closing statements. Each candidate will have up to two minutes. The order, remember, was determined by a drawing and Mr. Perot you were first.
 
Closing Statements
 PEROT: Well, it's been a privilege to be able to talk to the American people tonight. I make no bones about it, I love this country; I love the principle it's founded on; I love the people here. I don't like to see the country's principles violated. I don't like to see the people in a deteriorating economy, in a deteriorating country because our Government has lost touch with the people. The people in Washington are good people. We just have a bad system. We've got to change the system. It's time to do it because we have run up so much debt that time is no longer our friend. We've got to put our house in order.
When you go to bed tonight, look at your children. Think of their dreams, think of your dreams as a child, and ask yourself: "Isn't it time to stop talking about it? Isn't it time to stop creating images? Isn't it time to do it?" Aren't you sick of being treated like an unprogrammed robot? Every four years they send you all kinds of messages to tell you how to vote and then go back to business as usual. They told you at the tax and budget summit that if you agreed to a tax increase, we could balance the budget. They didn't tell you that that same year they increased spending $1.83 for every dollar we increased taxes. That's Washington in a nutshell right there. In the final analysis, I'm doing this for your children, when you look at them tonight.
There's another group that I feel very close to, and these are the men and women who fought on the battlefield; the children, the families of the ones who died; the people who left parts of their bodies over there.
I'd never ask you to do anything for me, but I owe you this and I'm doing it for you. I can't tell you what it means to me at these rallies when I see you and you come up and the look in your eyes, and I know how you feel and you know how I feel.
And then I think of the older people who are retired. They grew up in the Depression. They fought and won World War II. We owe you a debt we can never repay and the greatest repayment I can ever give is to re-create the American dream for your children and grandchildren. I'll give it everything I have if you want me to do it.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, your closing statement.
CLINTON: I'd like to thank the people of St. Louis and Washington University, the Presidential Debate Commission and all those who made this night possible, and I'd like to thank those of you who are watching. Most of all, I'd like to thank all of you who have touched me in some way over this last year, all the thousands of you whom I've seen. I'd like to thank the computer executives and the electronics executives in Silicon Valley, two-thirds of whom are Republicans who said they wanted to sign on to change to create a new America.
I'd like to thank the hundreds of executives who came to Chicago -- a third of them Republicans -- who said they wanted a change. I'd like to thank the people who started with Mr. Perot who've come on to help our campaign.
I'd like to thank all the folks around the America that no one ever knows about. The woman who was holding the AIDS baby she adopted in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, who asked me to do something more for adoption. The woman who stopped along the road in Wisconsin and wept because her husband had lost his job after 27 years.
All of the people who are having a tough time and the people who are winning but who know how desperately we need to change.
This debate tonight has made crystal clear a challenge that is as old as America, the choice between hope and fear, change or more of the same, the courage to move into a new tomorrow or to listen to the crowd who says things could be worse.
Mr. Bush has said some very compelling things tonight that don't quite square with the record. He was President for three years before he proposed a health-care plan that still hasn't been sent to Congress in total, three years before an economic plan, and he still didn't say tonight that that tax bill he vetoed raised taxes only on the rich and gave the rest of you a break. But he vetoed it, anyway.
I offer a new direction. Invest in American jobs, American education, control health-care costs, bring this country together again. I want the future of this country to be as bright and brilliant as its past, and it can be if we have the courage to change.
MODERATOR: President Bush, your closing statement.
BUSH: Let me tell you a little what it's like to be President. In the Oval Office, you can't predict what kind of crisis is going to come up. You have to make tough calls, you can't be on one hand with this way and one hand another. You can't take different positions on these difficult issues. And then you need a philosophical -- I'd call it a philosophical underpinning. Mine for foreign affairs is democracy and freedom and look at the dramatic changes around the world. The cold war is over, Soviet Union is no more and we're working with a democratic country. Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, the Baltics are free. Take a look at the Middle East. We had to stand up against a tyrant. The United States came together as we haven't in many, many years and we kicked this man out of Kuwait. And in the process, as a result of that will and that decision and that toughness, we now have ancient enemies talking peace in the Middle East. Nobody would have dreamed it possible.
And I think the biggest dividend of making these tough calls is the fact that we are less afraid of nuclear war. Every parent out there has much less worry that their kids are going to be faced with nuclear holocaust. All this is good.
On the domestic side, what we must do is have change that empowers people, not change for the sake of change, tax and spend. We don't need to do that anymore. What we need to do is empower people. We need to invest and save. We need to do better in education. We need to do better in job retraining. We need to expand our exports and they're going very, very well indeed and we need to strengthen the American family.
I hope as President that I've earned your trust. I've admitted it when I make a mistake, but then I go on and help try to solve the problems. I hope I've earned your trust because a lot of being President is about trust and character. And I ask for your support for four more years to finish this job.
Thank you very, very much.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 1992, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Articles yesterday and on Sunday about the Presidential debate misstated the location of the field house of Washington University, where it took place. The field house is in an unincorporated area of St. Louis County, not in Clayton, a suburb.
Because of a mechanical error, an article yesterday about Sunday night's Presidential debate omitted a passage in some copies. The affected paragraph should have read: "Mr. Clinton and Mr. Perot offered similar visions of the nation's post-cold-war needs: to rebuild the country's financial strength, reduce the former superpowers' nuclear arsenals and help promote democratic societies, especially in the Soviet Union."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton, Ross Perot, President Bush and his wife, Barbara, greeting the panelists Ann Compton and Sander Vanocur after the debate. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)Photos: Verbal rivalry ensued when a busload of supporters of President Bush, left, arrived yesterday near the site of the debates, where supporters of Ross Perot were already camped. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) (pg. A14); Ty Terrell, left, and Phil Larum, who lost their homes in Hurricane Andrew, watching the debate at the tent city in Homestead, Fla. (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times) (pg. A15); Fans in a sky box at Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh watching the Presidential debate as rain delayed the start of batting practice before the Braves played the Pirates. (Reuters) (pg. A16); Supporters of Ross Perot under the national debt sign at Avenue of the Americas and 43d Street, watching him participate in last night's Presidential debate in St. Louis. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (78%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (74%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CLAYTON (MO) UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (78%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (74%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATINGPRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DOWD, MAUREENCLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1992



405 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: The Talk of Hollywood;
The 'Glengarry' Math: Add Money and Stars, Then Subtract Ego

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Oct. 11

 BODY:
In the final days of filming "Glengarry Glen Ross" in New York, several of the stars began to weep. Al Pacino told the cast and crew that the weeks of shooting the David Mamet drama had been the best work experience of his life. He cried. Jack Lemmon, one of the other stars, began speaking, but he, too, cried.
 Jerry Tokofsky, the producer who shaped the film, was also overcome. "It was such a long, hard struggle," he said with a wan smile the other day, shortly after the movie opened to some of the best reviews of the year and big box-office returns in its limited opening. 
The film, adapted by Mr. Mamet from his play, was directed by James Foley. It is a brutal and funny drama about a bunch of hustling real estate salesmen struggling to stave off financial and personal disaster. In addition to Mr. Pacino and Mr. Lemmon, the cast includes Alec Baldwin, Ed Harris, Alan Arkin, Kevin Spacey and Jonathan Pryce.
 For Mr. Tokofsky, a talkative and emotional Hollywood veteran and former agent, the making of "Glengarry" was not just a personal obsession; it was alsoan example of the chaotic and, for the producer, crazy way movies are made.
 Mr. Tokofsky's account was punctuated by typical Hollywood issues: money problems, ego and fractured relations.
 The veteran producer read the play on a trip to New York in 1985 at the suggestion of Irvin Kershner, the director who wanted to make it. Mr. Tokofsky then saw the play on Broadway and promptly phoned Mr. Mamet. The writer's asking price was hefty: $500,000 to buy the play, and another $500,000 to write the film adaptation. But Mr. Tokofsky agreed.
 He also figured that the only way to make this movie was by casting stars, eager to appear in a David Mamet play, in the ensemble. But because the film was risky and low-budget, everyone would have to make some sacrifices.
 Of course, a sacrifice in Hollywood is hardly a sacrifice in the real world. Al Pacino cut his per-movie price from about $6 million to $1.5 million. Mr. Lemmon received about $1 million. Alec Baldwin got $250,000 for three days' work. Despite such hardships, other stars, including Robert De Niro and Bruce Willis, were eager to appear.
 Financing the risky film, especially in a weak economy, was problematic. No major studio wanted to back it, despite its promised star power. In the end, for "Glengarry" to be made, there had to be commitments from cable and video companies, a German television station, an Australian movie theater chain, several banks and New Line Cinema, a major independent outfit, which distributed the film.
 
Bleak and Then Bleaker
 But that took more than four years, during which a game of musical chairs ensued among actors and directors, with Mr. Tokofsky constantly facing the threat of the film's collapsing before it began. At times it seemed hopeless.
 Mr. Kershner dropped out for another project. The slow pace of financing led Mr. Pacino to drop out, too, and make "Frankie and Johnny" for his usual fee. Mr. Baldwin left because the producer was unable to raise a letter of credit, which guarantees that the actor would be paid by a certain date whether or not the movie starts. Jack Lemmon expressed doubts that the movie would ever get going.
 In the meantime, the producer enthusiastically hired a new director, James Foley, whose films include "At Close Range," "Who's That Girl?" and "After Dark, My Sweet." But when the stars begin dropping out, Mr. Foley dropped out, too.
 Mr. Tokofksy said: "It was March 1991. I had to keep myself from crying. I couldn't give up this thing." Baldwin Comes Through
 Finally Mr. Tokofsky returned to Mr. Baldwin and pleaded with him. He recalled: "Alec said: 'I've read 25 scripts and nothing is as good as this. O.K. If you make it, I'll do it."
 Others followed. Mr. Foley and Mr. Lemmon returned. Mr. Pacino told Mr. Tokofsky that the script was obsessing him, too.
 Mr. Tokofsky's prominent Hollywood lawyer, Jake Bloom, called a meeting at the Creative Artists' Agency, which represented many of the performers, and insisted the agency help out. Like other agencies, C.A.A. had not placed "Glengarry" on its high-priority list. Offbeat and low-budget, the movie was hardly likely to pay off big for the agency. But several of its clients, including Ed Harris and Kevin Spacey, soon joined the cast.
 Production began in August 1991, and ended two months later. During this period, Mr. Tokofsky and his partner, Stanley R. Zupnik, a Washington real estate developer, had an acrimonious dispute, partly over credit for the film, and split up. Both men are now listed as producers.
 With these travails behind him, Mr. Tokofksy points with pride at a letter that Mr. Mamet recently wrote to him, saying: "Dear Jerry. 'Glengarry' is magnificent. I am thrilled and delighted and honored. I'm proud to have my name on it."
 Mr. Tokofsky shrugs and says: "It's never easy making movies. It's a struggle. Look at movies like 'Driving Miss Daisy' or 'Rain Man,' or 'Glengarry.' They take years out of your life. But the films that are the hardest to make are often the most rewarding."
 
New Headache for Allen
 The final word (for now, anyway) on Woody Allen's "Husbands and Wives": Movie distributors and studio executives say the film, although critically acclaimed, is nothing less than a financial disaster.
 The film cost about $15 million, and millions more were spent on publicity. To break even for the studio, Tri Star Pictures, "Husbands and Wives" would have to gross $25 million. But so far it has grossed a disappointing $9 million, and is not expected to climb too much higher.
 As if to make a bad situation worse, film executives have heard complaints that the jagged, hand-held camera technique Mr. Allen used, intended to to give authenticity to the conceit that the film is a casually made documentary, has ended up making numerous members of the audience dizzy.
 
Killer Women on TV
 Last season television was engulfed by movies with one theme: women in jeopardy. There was Farrah Fawcett as a detective chased by a crazed killer in "Criminal Behavior" (ABC); there was Ali McGraw trying to elude sharks in "Survive the Savage Sea" (also ABC), and Donna Mills in jail for a murder she didn't commit in "False Arrest" (ABC again). Television executives now say that the women-in-jeopardy films have given way to women who kill. Or try to kill.
 Who knows whether this is progress? But the tide of television has definitely turned to killer women. There have already been two television films, one on ABC, the other on CBS, based in the story of Carolyn Warmus, the Westchester County schoolteacher convicted of killing her lover's wife.
 Also looming is a television movie on ABC about the Texas mother accused of soliciting murder to help kill a cheerleader who was a rival of her daughter's, a CBS film about a San Diego woman accused of killing her former husband (whom she had supported in medical school and law school) and his wife; a CBS film about a female serial killer in Florida, and an ABC mini-series starring Cybill Shepherd as a woman who hires men to have her foes slain. Other killer women shows are also under way.
 One prominent television executive called it, "Thelma and Louise come to TV."
 Peter Tortorici, executive vice president of CBS, sought to put the best possible light on the woman-as-killer genre. He said these programs were being produced in part because of the success of reality-based shows coupled with the fact that women are the principal viewers of prime-time television.
 "A woman can be seen as a victim, an aggressor or a heroine," he said. "Hopefully we offer a choice."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GLENGARRY GLEN ROSS (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES MOVIE FILMING (90%); FILM (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (76%); MOVIE THEATERS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); WRITERS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); THEATER (58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (56%); TICKET SALES (55%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD ALEC BALDWIN (58%); BRUCE WILLIS (56%); ROBERT DE NIRO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1992



406 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 14813 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Transcript of First TV Debate Among Bush, Clinton and Perot

 BODY:
Following is text of last night's Presidential debate in St. Louis, as transcribed by The New York Times.
 
Distinctive Points
 Q: The first topic tonight is what separates each of you from the other. Mr. Perot, what do you believe tonight is the single most important separating issue of this campaign? 
 PEROT: I think the principal issue that separates me is that five-and-a-half million people came together on their own and put me on the ballot. I was not put on the ballot by either the two parties. I was not put on the ballot by any PAC money, by any foreign lobbyist money, by any special interest money. This is a movement that came from the people. This is the way the framers of the Constitution intended our government to be, a government that comes from the people.
Over time we have developed a government that comes at the people, that comes from the top down, where the people are more or less treated as objects to be programmed during the campaign with commercials and media events and fear messages and personal attacks and things of that nature. The thing that separates my candidacy and makes it unique is that this came from millions of people in 50 states all over this country who wanted a candidate that worked and belonged to nobody but them. I go into this race as their servant. And I belong to them. So this comes from the people.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, one-minute response.
CLINTON: The most important distinction in this campaign is that I represent real hope for change, a departure from trickle-down economics, a departure from tax-and-spend economics to invest in growth. But before I can do that, I must challenge the American people to change and they must decide. Tonight I have to say to the President; Mr. Bush, for 12 years you've had it your way; you've had your chance and it didn't work. It's time to change. I want to bring that change to the American people. But we must all decide first: Do we have the courage to change for hope in a better tomorrow?
MODERATOR: President Bush, one-minute response.
BUSH: Well, I think one thing that distinguishes is experience -- I think we've dramatically changed the world. I'll talk about that a little bit later, but the changes are mind-boggling for world peace. Kids go to bed at night without the same fear of nuclear war.
And change for change sake isn't enough. We saw that message in the late 70's. We heard a lot about change and what happened, that misery index went right through the roof. But I've -- my economic program, I think, is the kind of change we want.
And the way we're going to get it done is we're going to have a brand new Congress. A lot of them were thrown because of all the scandals. I'll sit down with them, Democrats and Republicans alike, and work for my agenda for American renewal, which represents real change.
But I'd say if you had to separate out, I think it's experience at this level.
 
Value of Experience
 Q: Governor Clinton, how do you respond to the President on the -- you have two minutes -- on the question of experience. He says that is what distinguishes him from the other two of you.
CLINTON: I believe experience counts but it's not everything. Values, judgment and the record that I have amassed in my state also should count for something. I've worked hard to create good jobs and to educate people. My state now ranks first in the country in job growth this year, fourth in income growth, fourth in the reduction of poverty, third in overall economic performance, according to a major news magazine. That's because we believe in investing in education and in jobs.
And we have to change in this country. You know, my wife, Hillary, gave me a book about a year ago in which the author defined insanity as just doing the same old thing over and over again and expecting a different result. We have got to have the courage to change. Experience is important, yes. I've gotten a lot of good experience in dealing with ordinary people over the last year, month. I've touched more people's lives and seen more heartbreak and hope, more pain and more promise than anybody else who's run for President this year. And I think the American people deserve better than they're getting.
We have gone from first to 13th in the world in wages in the last 12 years, since Mr. Bush and Mr. Reagan have been in. Personal income has dropped while people have worked harder. In the last four years there have been twice as many bankruptcies as new jobs created. We need a new approach. This same old experience is not relevant. We're living in a new world after the cold war and what works in this new world is not trickle-down, not government for the benefit of the privileged few, not tax and spend, but a commitment to invest in American jobs and American education, controlling American health-care costs and bringing the American people together.
That is what works, and you can have the right kind of experience and the wrong kind of experience. Mine is rooted in the real lives of real people, and it will bring real results if we have the courage to change.
MODERATOR: President Bush, one minute to respond.
BUSH: I just thought of another, another big difference here between me -- I don't believe Mr. Perot feels this way, but I know Governor Clinton did. I want to accurately quote him. He thinks, I think he said that the country is coming apart at the seams. Now, I know the only way he can win is to make everybody believe the economy is worse than it is. But this country's not coming apart at the seams, for heaven's sakes. We're the United States of America. We -- in spite of the economic problems we are the most respected economy around the world. Many would trade for it. We've been caught up in a global slow-down. We can do much much better, but we ought not try to convince the American people that America is a country that's coming apart at the seams. I would hate to be running for President and think that the only way I could win would be to convince everybody how horrible things are. Yes there are big problems. And yes people are hurting. But I believe that this agenda for American renewal I have is the answer to do it, and I believe we can get it done now whereas we didn't in the past, because you're going to have a whole brand new bunch of people in the Congress that are going to have to listen to the same American people I'm listening to.
Q: Mr. Perot, a minute response, sir.
PEROT: Well, they got a point. I don't have any experience in running up a $4 trillion debt. I don't have any experience in gridlock government, where nobody takes responsibility for anything and everybody blames everybody else. I don't have any experience in creating the worst public school system in the industrialized world, the most violent crime-ridden society in the industrialized world. But I do have a lot of experience in getting things done. So if we're at a point in history where we want to stop talking about it and do it, I've got a lot of experience in figuring out how to solve problems, making the solutions work and then moving on to the next. I've got a lot of experience in not taking 10 years to solve a 10-minute problem. So if it's time for action, I think I have experience that counts. If there's more time for gridlock and talk and finger pointing, I'm the wrong man.
 
Character Issues
 Q: President Bush, the question goes to you. You have two minutes. And the question is this: Are there important issues of character separating you from these other two men?
BUSH: I think the American people should be the judge of that. I think character is a very important question.
I said something the other day where I was accused of being like Joe McCarthy, because I questioned -- I put it this way: I think it's wrong to demonstrate against your own country or organize demonstrations against your own country in foreign soil. I just think it's wrong.
I -- maybe they say, well, it's a youthful indiscretion. I was 19 or 20 flying off an aircraft carrier, and that shaped me to be Commander in Chief of the armed forces.
And I'm sorry, but demonstrating -- it's not a question of patriotism. It's a question of character and judgment. They get on me -- Bill's gotten on me about "Read my lips" some. When I make a mistake I'll admit it.
But he has made -- made -- not admitted a mistake. And I just find it impossible to understand how an American can demonstrate against his own country in a foreign land, organizing demonstrations against it, when young men are held prisoner in Hanoi or kids out of the ghetto were drafted.
Some say, well, you're a little old-fashioned. Maybe I am, but I just don't think that's right.
Now whether it's character or judgment, whatever it is, I have a big difference here on this issue. And so we'll just have to see how it plays out, but I -- I couldn't do that. And I don't think most Americans could do that.
And they all say, well, it was a long time ago. Well, let's admit it then. Say I made a terrible mistake. How could you be Commander in Chief of the armed forces and have some kid say when you have to make a tough decision as I did in Panama or in, in Kuwait, and then have some kid jump up and say, "Well, I'm not go going to. The Commander in Chief was organizing demonstrations halfway around the world during another era.
So there are differences. But that's about the main area where I think we have a difference. I don't know about -- we'll talk about that a little with Ross here in a bit.
MODERATOR: Mr. Perot, you have one minute.
PEROT: I think the American people will make their own decisions on character, and at a time when we have work to do and we need action, I think they need to clearly understand the backgrounds of each person. And I think the press can play a huge role in making sure that the backgrounds are clearly presented in an objective way. Then, make a decision. Certainly anyone in the White House should have the character to be there. But, I think it's very important to measure when and where things occurred. Did they occur when you were a young person in your formative years? Or did they occur while you were a senior official in the Federal Government? When you're a senior official in the Federal Government spending billions of dollars of taxpayers' money and you're a mature individual and you make a mistake, then that was on our ticket. If you make it as a young man, time passes. So I would say, just, you know, look at all three of us. Decide who you think will do the job, pick that person in November because believe me, as I've said before, the party's over and it's time for the cleanup crew. And we do have to have change and people who never take responsibility for anything when it happens on their watch and people who are in charge --
MODERATOR: Your time is up.
PEROT: Your time is up.
MODERATOR: Time is up.
PEROT: Time is up.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, you have one minute.
CLINTON: Ross gave a good answer, but I've got to respond directly to Mr. Bush. You have questioned my patriotism. You even brought some right-wing Congressmen into the White House to plot how to attack me for going to Russia in 1969-1970 when over 50,000 other Americans did. Now I honor your service in World War II. I honor Mr. Perot's service in uniform and the service of every man and woman who ever served, including Admiral Crowe who was your Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and who is supporting me. But when Joe McCarthy went around this country attacking people's patriotism, he was wrong. He was wrong. And a Senator from Connecticut stood up to him named Prescott Bush. Your father was right to stand up to Joe McCarthy. You were wrong to attack my patriotism. I was opposed to the war but I love my country and we need a President who will bring this country together, not divide it. We've got enough division. I want to lead a unified country.
MODERATOR: All right, we move now to the subject of taxes and spending. The question goes to Governor Clinton for a two-minute answer. It will be asked by Ann Compton.
 
Income and Taxes
 Q: Governor Clinton, can you lock in a level here tonight on where middle-income families can be guaranteed a tax cut, or at the very least, at what income level they can be guaranteed no tax increase?
CLINTON: The tax increase I have proposed triggers in at family incomes of $200,000 and above. Those are the people who in the 1980's had their incomes go up while their taxes went down. Middle-class people, defined as people with incomes of $52,000 and down, had their incomes go down while their taxes went up in the Reagan-Bush years, because of six increases in the payroll taxes. So that is where my income limit would trigger.
Q: So there would be no tax increases below $200,000?
CLINTON: That's right. My plan, notwithstanding my opponent's ad, my plan triggers in at gross incomes -- family incomes -- of $200,000 and above. Then we want to give modest middle-class tax relief to restore some fairness, especially to middle-class people with families with incomes of under $60,000. In addition to that, the money that I raise from upper-income people and from asking foreign corporations just to pay the same income on their income earned in America that American corporations do will be used to give incentives back to upper-income people.
I want to give people permanent incentives, an investment-tax credit like President Kennedy and the Congress inaugurated in the early 60's, to get industry moving again; a research-and-development tax credit; a low-income-housing tax credit, a long-term capital gains proposal for new business and business expansions.
We've got to have no more trickle-down. We don't need across-the-board tax cuts for the wealthy for nothing. We need to say, "Here's your tax incentive if you create American jobs the old-fashioned way. I'd like to create more millionaires than were created under Mr. Bush and Mr. Reagan, But I don't want to have four years where we have no growth in the private sector, and that's what's happened in the last four years. We're down 35,000 jobs in the private sector. We need to invest and grow, and that's what I want to do.
MODERATOR: President Bush, one minute, sir.
BUSH: Well let me -- I have to correct one thing. I didn't question the man's patriotism. I questioned his judgment and his character. If what he did in Moscow, that's fine. Let him explain it. He did. I accept that. What I don't accept is demonstrating and organizing demonstrations in a foreign country when your country's at war. I'm sorry. I cannot accept that.
In terms of -- this one on taxes, spells out the biggest difference between us. I do not believe we need to go back to the Mondale proposals or the Dukakis proposals of tax and spend. Governor Clinton says 200,000 but he also says he wants to raise 150 billion. The two -- taxing people over 200,000 will not get you a 150 billion, and then when you add in his other spending proposals regrettably you end up socking it to the working man. That old adage that they use -- We're going to soak the rich, we're going to soak the rich -- it always ends up being the poor cab driver or the working man that ends up paying the bill. And so I just have a different approach. I believe the way to get the deficit down is to control the growth of mandatory spending programs and not raise taxes on the American people, you got a big difference there.
MODERATOR: Mr. Perot, one minute.
PEROT: We've got to have a growing, expanding job base to give us a growing, expanded tax base. Right now we have a flat to deteriorating job base and where it appears to be going is minimum wage jobs. So we've got to really rebuild our job base. That's going to take money for infrastructure and investment to do that. Our foreign competitors are doing it; we're not. We cannot pay off the $4 trillion debt, balance the budget and have -- the industry is the future and the high-paying jobs in this country without having the revenue. We're going to go through a period of shared sacrifice. There's one challenge; it's got to be fair. We've created a mess; don't have much to show for it. And we have got to fix it.
MODERATOR: Next question goes to President Bush for a two-minute answer, and it will be asked by Sandy Vanocur.
 
Forces in Europe
 Q: Mr. President, this past week your Secretary of the Army, Michael Stone, said he had no plans to abide by a Congressional mandate to cut U.S. forces in Europe from 150 to 100,000 by the end of September 1996.
Now why, almost 50 years after the end of World War II and with the total collapse of the Soviet Union, should American taxpayers be taxed to support armies in Europe when the Europeans have plenty of money to do it for themselves?
BUSH: Well, Sander, that's a good question. And the answer is for 40 some years we kept the peace. If you look at the cost of not keeping the peace in Europe it would be exorbitant. We have reduced the number of troops that are deployed and going to be deployed. I have cut defense spending.
And the reason we could do that is because of our fantastic success in winning the cold war. We never would have got there if we'd gone for the nuclear-freeze crowd; never would have got there for -- if we'd listened to those that wanted to cut defense spending.
I think it is important that the United States stay in Europe and continue to guarantee the peace. We simply cannot pull back.
Now, when anybody has a spending program they want to spend money on at home, they say well let's cut money out of the Defense Department. I will accept, and have accepted, the recommendations of two proven leaders -- Gen. Colin Powell and Dick -- Secretary Dick Cheney. They feel that the levels we're operating at and the reductions that I have proposed are proper.
And so I simply do not think we should go back to the isolation days and start blaming foreigners. We are the sole remaining superpower, and we should be that. And we have a certain disproportionate responsibility. But I would ask the American people to understand that if we make imprudent cuts, if we go too far, we risk the peace.
And I don't want to do that. I've seen what it is like to see a war, and I -- to see the burdens of a war, I don't want to see us make reckless cuts. Because of our programs we have been able to significantly cut defense spending.
But let's not cut into the muscle, and let's not cut down our insurance policy, which is participation of American forces in NATO, the greatest peacekeeping organization ever made.
Today, you got problems in Europe, still bubbling along even though Europe's going democracy's route. But we -- we are there, and I think this insurance policy is necessary, I think it goes with world leadership and I think the levels we've come up with are just about right.
MODERATOR: Mr. Perot, one minute, sir.
PEROT: If I'm poor and you're rich, and I can get you to defend me, that's good. But when the tables get turned, I ought to do my share. Right now we spend about $300 billion a year on defense; the Japanese spend around $30 billion in Asia, the Germans spend around $30 billion in Europe. For example, Germany'll spend a trillion dollars building infrastructure over the next 10 years. It's kind of easy to do if you only have to pick up a $30 billion tab to defend your country.
The European Community is in a position to pay a lot more than they have in the past. I agree with the President; when they couldn't we should have. Now that they can, they should. We sort of seem to have a desire to try to stay over there and control it. They don't want us to control it, very candidly. So it's, I think, very important for us to let them assume more and more of the burden and for us to bring that money back here and rebuild our infrastructure because we can only be a superpower if we're an economic superpower, and we can only be an economic superpower if we have a growing, expanding job base.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton. One minute sir.
CLINTON: I agree with the general statement Mr. Bush made. I disagree that we need 150,000 troops to fulfill our role in Europe. We certainly must maintain an engagement there. There is certainly dangers there. There is certainly other trouble spots in the world which are closer to Europe than to the United States. But two former Defense Secretaries recently issued a report saying that 100,000 or slightly fewer troops would be enough, including President Reagan's former Defense Secretary, Mr. Carlucci. Many of the military experts whom I consulted on this agreed. We're going to have to spend more money in the future on military technology and on greater mobility, greater air lift, greater sea lift, and the V-22 airplane. We're going to have to do some things that are quite costly and I simply don't believe we can afford nor do we need to keep 150,000 troops in Europe given how much the Red Army, now under the control of Russia, has been cut. The Army Control Agreement concluded between Mr. Bush and Mr. Yeltsin is something I have applauded. I don't think we need 150,000 troops.
Let me make one other point; Mr. Bush talked about taxes. He didn't tell you that he vetoed a middle-class tax cut because it would be paid for by raising taxes on the wealthy and vetoed an investment tax credit paid for by raising taxes on the wealthy.
MODERATOR: All right. We go now to Mr. Perot for a two-minute question and it will be asked by John Machek.
 
Tax on Gasoline
 Q: Mr. Perot you talked about fairness just a minute ago, I'm sharing the pain. As part of your plan to reduce the ballooning Federal deficit you've suggested that we raise gasoline taxes 50 cents a gallon over five years. Why punish the middle-class consumer to such a degree?
PEROT: It's 10 cents a year accumulative. It finally gets to 50 cents at the end of the fifth year. I think punish is the wrong word. Again, see I didn't create this problem. We're trying to solve it. Now if you study our international competitors, some of our international competitors collect up to $3.50 a gallon in taxes and they use that money to build infrastructure and create jobs. We collect 35 cents and we don't have it to spend. I know it's not popular and I understand the nature of your question, but the people who will be helped the most by it are the working people who will get the jobs created because of this tax.
Why do we have to do it? Because we have so mismanaged our country over the years and it is now time to pay the fiddler and if we don't, we will be spending our children's money. We have spent $4 trillion worth. An incredible number of young people are active in supporting my effort because they're deeply concerned that we have taken the American dream from them. I think it's fitting that we're on the campus of a university tonight. These young people, when they get out of this wonderful university, will have difficulty finding a job. We've got to clean this mess up, leave this country in good shape and pass on the American dream to them. We've got to collect the taxes to do it. If there's a fairer way, I'm all ears. Ahh.
But, but, see, let me make it very clear. If people don't have the stomach to fix these problems, I think it's a good time to face it in November. If they do, then they will have heard the harsh reality of what we have to do. I'm not playing Lawrence Welk music tonight.
MODERATOR: All right. Governor Clinton, you have a minute, sir.
CLINTON: I think Mr. Perot has confronted this deficit issue but I think it's important to point out that we really have two deficits in America, not one. We have a budget deficit in the Federal Government, but we also have an investment of jobs and income deficit. People are working harder for less money than they were making 10 years ago, two-thirds of our people. A $1,600 drop in average income in just the last two years. The problem I have with the Perot prescription is that almost all economists who've looked at it say that if you cut the deficit this much, this quick, it will increase unemployment, it will slow down the economy. That's why I think we shouldn't do it that quickly. We have a disciplined reduction in the deficit of 50 percent over the next four years, but first, get incentives to invest in this economy, put the American people back to work. We've got to invest in growth.
Nine Nobel Prize-winning economists and 500 others, including numerous Republican and Democratic business executives, have endorsed this approach because it offers the best hope to put American back to work and get our incomes rising instead of falling.
MODERATOR: President Bush, one minute, Sir.
BUSH: The question was on fairness, and I, I just disagree with Mr. Perot. I don't believe it is fair to slap a 50-cents-a-gallon tax over whatever many years on the people that have to drive for a living. People that go long distances. I don't think we need to do it.
You see I have a fundamental difference. I agree with what he's talking about in trying to get this spending down and the discipline, although I think we ought to totally exempt Social Security. But he's talking tough medicine, and I think that's good.
I disagree with the tax-and-spend philosophy. You see, I don't think we need to tax more and spend more and then say that's going to make the problem better. And I'm afraid that's what I think I'm hearing from Governor Clinton.
I believe what you need to do is some of what Ross is talking about -- control the growth of mandatory spending and get taxes down. He's mentioned some ways to do it, and I agree with those.
I've been talking about getting a capital-gains cut forever, and his friends in Congress have been telling me that's a tax break for the rich. It would stimulate investment. I'm for an investment-tax allowance. I am for a first-time tax break for first-time homebuyers, and with this new Congress coming in, gridlock will be gone, and I'll sit down with them and say let's get this done. But I do not want to go the tax-and-spend route.
MODERATOR: All right, let's move on now to the subject of jobs. And the first question goes to President Bush for two minutes and John will ask that question. John.
 
Converting the Economy
 Q: Mr. President, last month you came to St. Louis to announce a very lucrative contract for McDonnell-Douglas to build F-15's for Saudi Arabia. In today's Post Dispatch a retired saleswoman, a 75-year-old woman named Marjorie Roberts, asked if she could ask a question of the candidates, said she wanted to register her concern about the lack of a plan to convert our defense-oriented industries into other purposes. How would you answer her?
BUSH: Well, I assume she was supportive of the decision on McDonnell-Douglas. I assume she was supporting me on the decision to sell those airplanes. I think it's a good decision -- took a little heat for it. But, I think it was the correct, the correct decision to do, and we worked it out and, indeed, we're moving forward all around the world in a much more peaceful way. So that one we came away with which -- in creating jobs for the American people. I would simply say to her look, take a look at what the President has proposed on job retraining. When you cut back on defense, defense spending, some people are going to be thrown out of work. If you throw another 50,000 kids on the street because of cutting recklessly in troop levels, you're going to put a lot more out of work. I would say to him, look at the job retraining programs that we're proposing, therein is the best answer to her. And another one is stimulate investment in savings. I mean, we've got big economic problems, but we are not coming apart at the seams. We're ready for a recovery, with interest rates down and inflation down, the cruelest tax of all, caught up in a global slowdown right now, but that will change if you go with the programs I've talked about and if you help with job retraining and education. I am a firm believer that our America 2000 education problem is the answer. A little longer run -- it's going to take a while to educate, but it is a good program.
So, her best hope for short term is job retraining if she was thrown out of work at a defense plant, but tell her it's not all that gloomy. We're the United States. We got -- we've faced tough problems before. Look at the misery index when the Democrats had both the White House and the -- and the Congress. It was just right through the roof. Now, we can do better and the way to do better is not to tax and spend but to retrain, get that control of the mandatory spending programs. I -- I am much more optimistic about this country than some.
MODERATOR: Mr. Perot, you have one minute, Sir.
PEROT: Well, your defense industries are going to have to convert to civilian industries. Many of them are. And the sooner they start, the sooner they'll finish. And there will be a significant transition. And it's very important that we not continue to let our industrial base deteriorate. We have someone who I'm sure regrets said it, in the President's staff, said he didn't care whether we made potato chips or computer chips. Well, anybody who thinks about it cares a great deal.
No. 1, you make more making computer chips than you do potato chips. No. 2, 19 out of 20 computer chips we have in this country now come from Japan. We've given away whole industries. So as we phase these industries over, there's a lot of intellectual talent in these industries. A lot of these people and industries can be converted to the industries of tomorrow. And that's where the high-paying jobs are. We need to have a very carefully thought-through phase-over.
See, we practice 19th-century capitalism. The rest of the world practices 21st-century capitalism. We've got -- I can't handle that in a minute, but I hope we can get back into it later. In the rest of the world the countries and the businesses would be working together to make this transition in an intelligent way.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, you have one minute, Sir.
CLINTON: We must have a transition plan, to plan to convert from a defense to a domestic economy. No other nation would have cut defense as much as we already have without that. There are 200,000 people unemployed in California alone because we have cut defense without planning to retrain them, and to reinvest in the technologies of the future here at home. That is what I want to do. This Administration may say they have a plan, but the truth is they have not even released all the money -- the paltry sum of money -- that Congress appropriated.
I want to take every dollar by which we reduce defense and reinvest it in technologies for the 21st century -- in new transportation, in communication and environmental-cleanup technologies. Let's put the American people to work and let's build the kind of high-tech high-wage high-growth economy that the American people deserve.
MODERATOR: The next question goes to Mr. Perot for a two-minute answer. It will be asked by Ann.
 
Producing Jobs
Q: Mr. Perot, you talked a minute ago about rebuilding the job base. Is it true what Governor Clinton just said, that that means that unemployment will increase, that it will slow the economy? And how would you specifically use the powers of the Presidency to get more people back into good jobs immediately?
PEROT: Step 1, the American people send me up there. The day after election, I get with the Congressional -- we won't even wait until inauguration. And I'll ask the President to help me. And I'll ask his staff to help me. And we will start putting together teams to put together, to take all the plans that exist and do something with them.
Please understand, there are great plans lying all over Washington nobody ever executes. It's like having a blueprint for a house you never built, and don't have anywhere to sleep. Now, the challenge is to take these things and do something with them.
Step 1, you want to put America back to work? Clean up the small-business problem. Have one task force work on that.
The second, you've got your big companies that are in trouble, including the defense industries. Have another one on that.
Have a third task force on new industries of the future, to make sure we nail those for our country, and they don't wind up in Europe and Asia.
Convert from 19th-century capitalism. See, we have an adversarial relationship between Government and business, international competitors that are cleaning our plate. Have an intelligent relationship between Government and business and a supported relationship.
Then have another task force on crime, because next to jobs the people are concerned about their safety, health care, school. One on the debt and deficit.
In fact in that 90-day period before the inauguration, put together the framework for the Town Hall and give the American people a Christmas present. Show them by Christmas the first cut of these plans. By the time Congress comes into session, go to work. Have those plans ready to go in front of Congress. Then get off to a flying start in '93 to execute these plans.
There are people in this room and people on this stage who've been in meetings when I would sit there and say: is this one we're going to talk about or do something about? Well, obviously my orientation is let's go do it. Now put together your plans by Christmas. Be ready to go when Congress goes. Nail these things. Small business -- you've got to have capital. You've got to have credit. Many of them need mentors or coaches. And we can create more jobs there in a hurry than any other place.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, one minute.
CLINTON: This country desperately needs a jobs program. And my first priority would be to pass a jobs program, to introduce it on the first day I was inaugurated. I would meet with the leaders of the Congress, with all the newly elected members of the Congress, and as many others with whom I could meet between the time of the election and the inauguration. And we would present a jobs program.
Then we would present a plan to control health-care costs and phase in health-care coverage for all Americans. Until we control health-care costs, we're not going to control the deficit. It is the No. 1 culprit. But first we must have an aggressive jobs program.
I live in a state where the manufacturing-job growth has far outpaced the nation's in the last few years, where we have created more private-sector jobs since Mr. Bush has been President than have been created in the entire rest of the country, where Mr. Bush's Labor Secretary said the job growth has been enormous.
We've done it in Arkansas. Give me a chance to create these kind of jobs America. We can do it. I know we can.
MODERATOR: President Bush, one minute.
BUSH: We've got the plan announced for what we can do for small business. I've already put forward things that'll get this country working fast, some of which have been echoed here tonight -- investment-tax allowance, capital-gains reduction, more on research and development, a tax credit for first-time home buyers.
What I'm going to do is say to Jim Baker when this campaign is over: "All right, let's sit down now. You do in domestic affairs what you've done in foreign affairs. Be the kind of economic coordinator of all the domestic side of the house, and that includes all the economic side, all the training side, and bring this program together."
We're going to have a new Congress. And we're going to say to them: "You've listened to the voters the way we have, nobody wants gridlock anymore. And so let's get the program through."
And I believe it'll work, because, as Ross said, we got the plans. The plans are all over Washington. And I've put ours together in something called the Agenda for American Renewal, and it makes sense. It's sensible. It creates jobs. It gets to the base of the kind of jobs we need. And so I'll just be asking for support to get that put into effect.
 
The Federal Reserve
 MODERATOR: All right, the next question goes to Governor Clinton, for two minutes. It will be asked by Sandy.
Q: Governor Clinton, when a President running for the first time gets into the office and wants to do something about the economy, he finds in Washington there's a person who has much more power over the economy than he does, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, accountable to no one. That being the case, would you go along with proposals made by Treasury Secretary James Brady and Congressman Lee Hamilton to make the Federal Reserve Board chairman somehow more accountable to elected officials?
CLINTON: Well, let me say that I think that we might ought to review the terms and the way it works. But frankly I don't think that's the problem today. We have low interest rates today. At least we have low interest rates that the Fed can control. Our long-term interest rates are still pretty high because of our deficit and because of our economic performance. And there was a terrible reaction internationally to Mr. Bush's saying he was going to give us four more years of trickle-down economics, other across-the-board tax cuts, and most of it going to the wealthy with no real guarantee of investment.
But I think the important thing is to use the powers the President does have, on the assumption that given the condition of this economy, we're going to keep interest rates down if we have the discipline to increase investment and reduce the debt at the same time. That is my commitment. I think the American people are hungry for action. I think Congress is hungry for someone who will work with them instead of manipulate them, someone who will not veto a bill that has an investment-tax credit, middle-class tax relief, research-and-development tax credits, as Mr. Bush has done. Give me a chance to do that. I don't have to worry, I don't think, in the near term about the Federal Reserve. Their policies so far, it seems to me, are pretty sound.
MODERATOR: President Bush, you have one minute.
BUSH: I don't think the Fed ought to be put under the Executive Branch. There is separation there. I think that's fine. Alan Greenspan is respected. I've had some arguments with him about the speed in which we might have lowered rates, but Governor Clinton -- he talks about the reaction to the markets.
There was a momentary fear that he might win and that the markets went phweee, down like that. So I don't think we can judge on -- the stock market has been strong. It's been very strong since I've been President. And they recognize we got great difficulties, but they're also much more optimistic than the pessimists we have up here tonight.
In terms of vetoing tax bills, you're darn right. I am going to protect the American taxpayer against the spend-and-tax Congress. And I'm going to keep on vetoing them, because I don't think we're taxed too little.
I think the Government's spending too much.
So Governor Clinton can label it tax for the rich or anything he wants; I'm going to protect the working man by continuing to veto and to threaten to veto until we get this new Congress, and then we're going to move forward on our plan.
MODERATOR: Mr. Perot, one minute.
PEROT: Keep the Federal Reserve independent, but let's live in a world of reality. We live in a global economy, not a national economy. These interest rates we have now don't make any sense. We have a $4 trillion debt, and only in America would you finance 70 percent of it five years or less. So 70 percent of our debt is five years or less. It's very interest sensitive. We have a 4 percent gap between what we pay for Treasuries and what Germany pays for one-to-five-year Treasuries.
That gap is going to close, because the Arabs, the Japanese and folks in this country are going to start buying German Treasuries because they can get more money. Every time our interest rates go up 1 percent, that adds $28 billion to the deficit or to the debt, whichever place you want to put it. We are sitting on a ticking bomb, folks, because we have totally mismanaged our country and we had better get it back under control. Just think, in your own business, if you had all of your long-term problems financed short term, you'd go broke in a hurry.
MODERATOR: We're going to move to foreign affairs. The first question goes to Mr. Perot for a two-minute answer, and Sandy will ask.
 
After the Cold War
 Q: Mr. Perot in the postwar cold war environment what should be the overriding U.S. national interest? And what can the United States do -- and what can it afford to do -- to defend that national interest?
PEROT: Again, if you're not rich, you're not a superpower. So we have two that I'd put as No. 1. I have 1 and 1A. One is we've got to have the money to be able to pay for defense. And we've got to manufacture here. Believe it or not folks, you can't ship it all overseas. You've got to make it here. And you can't convert from potato chips to airplanes in an emergency. See Willow Run could be converted from cars to airplanes in World War II because it was here. We've got to make things here. You just can't ship them overseas anymore. I hope we talk more about that.
Second thing, on priorities, we've got to help Russia succeed in its revolution and all of its republics. When we think of Russia, remember we're thinking of many countries now. We've got to help them. That's pennies on the dollar compared to renewing the cold war.
Third, we've got all kinds of agreements on paper and some that are being executed on getting rid of nuclear warheads. Russia and its republics are out of control or at best in weak control right now. It's a very unstable situation.
You've got every rich Middle Eastern country over there trying to buy nuclear weapons, as you well know. And that will lead to another five-star migraine headache down the road. We really need to nail down the intercontinental ballistic missiles, the ones that can hit us from Russia. And we've focused on the tactical. We've made real progress there. We've got some agreement on the nuclear, but we don't have those things put away yet. The sooner the better. So in terms or priorities, we've got to be financially strong.
No. 2, we've got to take care of this missile situation and try to get the nuclear war behind us and give that a very high priority. And No. 3, we need to help and support Russia and the republics in every possible way to become democratic capitalistic societies and not just sit back and let those countries continue in turmoil because they could go back worse than things used to be. And believe me there are a lot of old boys in the K.G.B. and the military that liked it better the way it used to be.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, one minute.
CLINTON: In order to keep America the strongest nation in the world, we need some continuity and some change. There are three fundamental challenges. First of all, the world is still a dangerous and uncertain place. We need a new military and a new national security policy equal to the challenges of the post-cold-war era, a smaller permanent military force, but one that is more mobile, well trained with high-technology equipment. We need to continue the negotiations to reduce the nuclear arsenals in the Soviet Union, the former Soviet Union and the United States. We need to stop this proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Second, we have to face that in this world economic security is a whole lot of national security. Our dollar's at an all-time low against some foreign currencies. We're weak in the world. We must rebuild America's strength at home.
And finally, we ought to be promoting the democratic impulses around the world. Democracies are our partners. They don't go to war with each other. They're reliable friends in the future. National security, economic strength, democracy.
MODERATOR: President Bush, one minute.
BUSH: Well, we still are the envy of the world in terms of our military, there's no question about that. We're the envy of the world in terms of our economy, despite of the difficulties we're having, there's no question about that. Our exports are dramatically up. I might say to Mr. Perot, "I can understand why you might have missed it because there's so much fascination by trivia, but I worked out a deal with Boris Yeltsin to eliminate -- get rid of entirely -- the most destabilizing weapons of all, the SS-18, the big intercontinental ballistic missile." I mean, that's been done. And thank God, it has, because the parents of these young people around here go to bed at night without the same fear of nuclear war. We made dramatic progress.
And so, we've got a good military. The question, to sort of get a new military, get the best in the world, we got it -- and they're keeping the peace and they're respected around the world. And we're more respected because of the way we have conducted ourselves. We didn't listen to the nuclear freeze crowd; we said "peace through strength," and it worked and the cold war is over. And America understands that.
But we're so -- turned so inward we don't understand the global picture, and we are helping democracy, Ross. The Freedom Support Act is something that I got through the Congress, and it's a very good thing because it does exactly what you say, and I think you agree with that, to help Russian democracy. And we're going to keep on doing that.
MODERATOR: Next question is for Governor Clinton and John will ask it.
 
Relations With China
 Q: Governor Clinton, you accused the President of coddling tyrants, including those in Beijing. As President, how would you exert U.S. power to influence affairs in China?
CLINTON: I think our relationships with China are important and I don't think we want to isolate China, but I think it is a mistake for us to do what this Administration did when all those kids went out there carrying the Statue of Liberty in Tiananmen Square. Mr. Bush sent two people in secret to toast the Chinese leaders and basically tell them not to worry about it. They rewarded him by opening negotiations with Iran to transfer nuclear technology. That was their response to that sort of action. Now that voices in the Congress and throughout the country have insisted that we do something about China, look what has happened. China has finally agreed to stop sending us products made with prison labor, not because we coddled them but because the Administration was pushed into doing something about it. And recently the Chinese have announced that they are going to lower some barriers to our products, which they ought to do since they have a $15 billion trade surplus with the United States under Mr. Bush, the second-biggest surplus of all, second to Japan. So I would be firm. I would say if you want to continue Most-Favored Nations status for your government-owned industries as well as your private ones, observe human rights in the future. Open your society. Recognize the legitimacy of those kids that were carrying the Statue of Liberty. If we can stand up for our economics we ought to be able to preserve the democratic interests of the people in China, and over the long run they will be more reliable partners.
MODERATOR: President Bush, you have one minute.
BUSH: Well, the Administration is the first major country to stand up against the abuse in Tiananmen Square. We are the one that worked out the prison labor deal. We are the ones that have lowered the barrier to products with Carla Hill's negotiation.
I am the one that said let's keep the M.F.N., because you see China moving towards a free market economy. To do what the Congress and Governor Clinton is suggesting, you'd isolate and ruin Hong Kong. They are making some progress, not enough for us.
We were the first ones to put sanctions on. We still have them on on some things.
But Governor Clinton's philosophy is isolate them. He says don't do it, but the policies he's expounding of putting conditions on M.F.N. and kind of humiliating them is not the way you make the kind of progress we are getting.
And I've stood up with these people, and I understand what you have to do to be strong in this situation, and it's moving, not as fast as we'd like. But you isolate China and turn them inward, and then we've made a tremendous mistake.
And I'm not going to do it, and I've had to fight a lot of people that were saying human rights, and we are the ones that put the sanctions on and stood for it.
And he can insult General Scowcroft if he wants to. They didn't go over to coddle; he went over to say we must make the very changes they're making now.
MODERATOR: One minute, Mr. Perot.
PEROT: It's huge. China's a huge country, broken into many provinces. It has some very elderly leaders that will not be around too much longer. Capitalism is growing and thriving across big portions of China. Asia will be our largest trading partner in the future. It will be a growing and a closer relationship. We have a delicate tightwire walk that we must go through at the present time to make sure that we do not cozy up to tyrants, to make sure that they don't get the impression that they can suppress their people.
But time is our friend there, because their leaders will change in not too many years, worst case, and their country is making great progress.
One last point on the missiles. I don't want the American people to be confused. We have written agreements, and we have some missiles that have been destroyed. But we have a huge number of intercontinental ballistic missiles that are still in place in Russia. The fact that you have an agreement is one thing. Till they're destroyed, some crazy person can either sell them or use them.
MODERATOR: All right, the next question goes to President Bush for a two-minute answer, and Ann will ask it.
 
Role of the Military
 Q: Mr. President, how can you watch the killing in Bosnia and the "ethnic cleansing," or the starvation and anarchy in Somalia, and not want to use America's might, if not America's military to try to end that kind of suffering?
BUSH: Ann, both of them are very complicated situations. And I vowed something, because I learned something from Vietnam, I am not going to commit U.S. forces until I know what the mission is, till the military tell me that it can be completed, until I know how they can come out. We are helping, American airplanes are helping today on humanitarian relief for Sarajevo. It is America that's in the lead in helping with humanitary relief for Somalia. But when you go to put somebody else's son or daughter into war, I think you've got to be a little bit careful and you have to have -- be sure that there's a military plan that can do this. You have ancient ethnic rivalries that have cropped up as Yugoslavia has dissolved, or getting dissolved, and it isn't going to be solved by sending in the 82d Airborne. And I'm not going to do that as Commander in Chief.
I am going to stand by and use the moral persuasion of the United States to get satisfaction in terms of prison camps -- and we're making some progress there -- and in terms of getting humanitarian relief in there. And right now, as you know, the United States took the lead in a no-fly operation up there in -- a no-fly order up in the United Nations. We're working through the international organizations. That's one thing I learned by forging that tremendous and highly successful coalition against Saddam Hussein, the dictator. Use -- work internationally to do it. I'm very concerned about, I'm concerned about ethnic cleansing. I'm concerned about attacks on Muslims, for example, over there. But I must stop short of using American force until I know how those young men and women are going to get out of there, as well as get in -- know what the mission is and define it.
BUSH: And I think I'm on the right track.
Q: Are you designing a mission ----
MODERATOR: Ms., Ann, sorry, time is up. We have to go to Mr. Perot for a one-minute response.
PEROT: I think, if we learned anything in Vietnam it's you first commit this nation before you commit the troops to the battlefield. We cannot send our people all over the world to solve every problem that comes up. This is basically a problem that is a primary concern to the European Community. Certainly we care about the people, we care about the children, we care about the tragedy. But it is inappropriate for us, just because there's a problem somewhere around the world, to take the sons and daughters of working people and make no mistake about it, our all-volunteer armed force is not made up of the sons and daughters of the beautiful people, it's the working folks who send their sons and daughters to war, with a few exceptions. It's very unlike World War II when F.D.R.'s sons flew missions, everybody went. It's a different world now and very important that we not just, without thinking it through, just rush to every problem in the world and have our people torn to pieces.
MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, one minute.
CLINTON: I agree that we cannot commit ground forces to become involved in the quagmire of Bosnia or in the tribal wars of Somalia. But I think that it's important to recognize that there are things that can be done short of that and that we do have interest there. There are, after all, two million refugees now because of the problems in what was Yugoslavia, the largest number since World War II. And there may be hundreds of thousands of people who will starve or freeze to death in this winter. The United States should try to work with its allies and stop it. I urged the President to support this air cover and he did and I applaud that. I applaud the no-fly zone and I know that he's going back to the United Nations to try to get authority to enforce it. I think we should stiffen the embargo on the Belgrade Government and I think we have to consider whether or not we should lift the arms embargo now on the Bosnians since they are in no way in a fair fight with a heavily armed opponent bent on ethnic cleansing. We can't get involved in the quagmire but we must do what we can.
MODERATOR: Moving on now to divisions in our country. First question goes to Governor Clinton for two minutes and Ann will ask it.
 
Family Values
 Q: Governor Clinton, can you tell us what your definition of the word family is?
CLINTON: A family involved at least one parent, whether natural or adopted, or foster, and children. A good family is a place where love and discipline and good values are transmuted from the elders to the children. A place where people turn for refuge and where they know they're the most important people in the world. America has a lot of families that are in trouble today. There's been a lot of talk about family values in this campaign. I know a lot about that. I was born to a widowed mother who gave me family values and grandparents. I've seen the family values in my people in Arkansas. I've seen the family values of all these people in America who are out there killing themselves working harder for less, in a country that's had the worst economic years in 50 years -- the first decline in industrial production ever. I think the President owes it to family values to show that he values America's families. Whether they are people on welfare you're trying to move from welfare to work, the working poor who I think deserve a tax break to lift them above poverty if they've got a child in the house and working 40 hours a week. Working families who deserve a fair tax system and the opportunity for constant retraining. They deserve a strong economy, and I think they deserve a family-and-medical-leave act. Seventy-two other nations have been able to do it. Mr. Bush vetoed it twice because he says we can't do something 72 other countries do even though it was a small business exemption. So with all the talk about family values, I know about family values. I wouldn't be here without them. The best expression of my family values is that tonight's my 17th wedding anniversary and I'd like to close my question by just wishing my wife a happy anniversary and thanking my daughter for being here.
MODERATOR: President Bush, one minute.
BUSH: Well, I'd say that one meeting that made a profound impression on me was when the mayors of the big cities, including the Mayor of Los Angeles, a Democrat, came to see me and they unanimously said the decline in urban America stems from the decline in the American family. So I do think we need to strengthen family. When Barbara holds an AIDS baby she's showing a certain compassion for family; when she reads to children, the same thing. I believe that discipline and respect for the law, all of these things should be taught to children -- not in our schools, but families have to do that.
I'm appalled at the highest -- outrageous numbers of divorces; it happens in families, it's happened in ours, but it's gotten too much. And I just think we ought to do everything we can to respect the American family. It can be a single-parent family -- those mothers need help, and one way to do it is to get these deadbeat fathers to pay their obligations to these mothers; that'll help strengthen the American family. And there's a whole bunch of other things that I can't click off in this short period of time.
MODERATOR: All right, Mr. Perot, you have one minute.
PEROT: If I had to solve all the problems that face this country and I could be granted one wish as we started down the trail to rebuild the job base, the schools and so on and so forth, I would say a strong family unit in every home, where every child is loved, nurtured and encouraged. A little child before they're 18 months learns to think well of himself or herself, or poorly. They develop a positive or negative self-image. At a very early age they learn how to learn.
If we have children who are not surrounded with love and affection -- see, I look at my grandchildren and wonder if they'll ever learn to walk because they're always in someone's arms. And I think, my gosh, wouldn't it be wonderful if every child had that love and support. But they don't.
We will not be a great country unless we have a strong family unit in every home. And I think you can use the White House as a bully pulpit to stress the importance of these little children, particularly in their young and formative years, to mold these little precious pieces of clay so that they, too, can live rich full lives when they're grown.
MODERATOR: New question, two-minute answer, goes to President Bush. Sandy will ask it.
 
Drugs and Crime
 Q: Mr. President, there's been a lot of talk about Harry Truman in this campaign, so much so that I think tomorrow I'll wake up and see him named as the next Commissioner of Baseball.
BUSH: They could use one.
Q: But the thing that Mr. Truman didn't have to deal with was drugs. Americans are increasingly alarmed about drug-related crimes in cities and suburbs, and your Administration is not the first to have grappled with this. And are you at all of a mind that maybe it ought to go to another level? If not to what's advocated by William F. Buckley Jr. and Milton Friedman -- legalization, somewhere between there and where we are now?
BUSH: No, I don't think that's the right answer. I don't believe legalizing narcotics is the answer. I just don't believe that's the answer. I do believe that there's some fairly good news out there. The use of cocaine, for example, by teen-agers is dramatically down.
But we've got to keep fighting on this war against drugs. We're doing a little better in interdiction. Many of the countries below that used to say, "Well, this is a United States problem -- if you get the demand down, then we wouldn't have the problem," are working cooperatively with the D.E.A. and other, the military. We're using the military more now in terms of interdiction. Our funding for recovering is up, recovering the addicts.
Where we're not making the progress, Sander, is -- we're making it in teen-agers, and thank God, because I thought what Ross said was most appropriate about these families and these children. But where we're not making it is with the confirmed addicts.
I'll tell you one place that's working well, and that is the private sector, Jim Burke and his task force that he has. You may know about it. I'll tell the American people, but this man said, "I'll get you $1 million a day in pro bono advertising," something that's very hard for the Government to do, and he went out and he did it. And people are beginning to educate through this program, teaching these kids you shouldn't use drugs.
So we're still in the fight. But I must tell you I think legalization of narcotics or something of that nature in the face of the medical evidence would be totally counterproductive. And I oppose it and I'm going to stand up and continue to oppose it.
MODERATOR: Mr. Perot -- Mr. Perot, one minute.
PEROT: Anytime you think you want to legalize drugs go to a neonatal unit, if you can get in. They're between 100 and 200 percent capacity uyp and down the East Coast. And the reason is crack babies being born. The baby's in the hospital 42 days, the typical cost to you and me is $125,000. Again and agina and again the mother disappears in three days and the child becomes a ward of the state because he's permanently and genetically damaged. Just look at those little children and if anybody can even think about legalizing drugs, they've lost me.
 Now let's look at priorities. You know, we went on the Libyan raid. You remember that one? Becuase we were worried to death that Qaddafi might be building up chemical weapons. We've got chemical warfare being conducted against our children on the streets in this country all day, every day and we don't have the will to stamp it out. And again, if I get up there, if you send me, we're going to have some blunt talks about this. And we're reallygoing to get down to the trenches and say is this one you want to talk about or fix, because talk won't do it, folks. There are guys that couldn't get a job, third shift in a Dairy Queen, driving BMW's and Mercedes selling drugs. And these old boys are not goint to quit easy.
 MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, one minute.
 CLINTON: Like Mr. Perot I have held crack babies in my arms, but In know more about this, I think, than anybody else up here because I have a brother who is a recovering drug addict. I'm very proud of him, but I can tell you this: If drugs were legal I don't think he'd be alive today. I am adamantlyoposed to legalizing drugs. He is alive today because of the criminal justice system. That's a mistake.
 What shoud we do? First we ought to prevent more of this on the street. Thirty years ago there were three policemen for every crime, now there are three crimes for every policeman. We need 100,000 more police on the street. I have a plan for that. Secondly, we ought to have treatment on demand. Thirdly, we ought to have boot amp for first-time nonviolent offenders so they can get discipline and treatment and education and get re-connected to the community before they are severed and sent to prison where they can learn how to be first-class criminals. There is a crime bill that lamentably was blocked from passage once again, mostly by Republicans in the United States Senate which would have addressed some of these problems. That crime bill is going to be one of my highest priorities next Januray, if I become President.
 MODERATOR: Next question is to you, Mr. Perot; you have two minutes to answer it, and John will ask it.
 
 
Racial Division
 Q. Mr. Perot, racial division continues to tear apart our great cities, the last episode being this thing in Los Angeles. Why is this still happening in America, and what would you do to end it?
 PEROT: This is a relevant question here tonight. First thing I'd do is, during political campaigns I would urge everybody to stop trying to split this country into fragments and appeal to the differences between us, and then wonder why the melting pot all broke into pieces after November 3. We are all inthis together. We ought to love one another because united teams win and divided teams lose. If we can't love one another. And if you can't get fair, just recognize we're all stuckwith one another because nobody's going anywhere, right? Now, that ought to get everybody back up to let's get along together and make it work.
 Our diversity is a strenght; we've turned it into a weakness. Now again the White House is a bully pulpit.I think whoever is in the White House should just make it absolutely unconscionable and inexcussable, and if anybody's in the middle of a speech at a you know, one of these conventions, I would expect the candidate to go out and lift him off the stage if he starte preaching hate. Because we don't have time for it. See, our differences are our strengths. We have got to pull togehter. In athletics we know it. See, divided teams lose; united teams win. We have got to unite and pull together, and there's nothing we cant' do, but if we sit around blowing all this energy out the window, on a racial strife and hatred, we are stuck with a sure loser because we have been a melting pot; we're becoming more and more of a melting pot; let's make it a strength, not a weakness.
 MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, one minute.
 CLINTON: I grew up in the segregated South, thankfully raised by a grandfather with almost no formal education, but with a heart of gold who taught me early that all people were equal in the eyes of God. I saw the winds of hatred divide people and keep the people of my state poorer than they would have been, spiritually and economically. And I've done everything I could in my public life to overcome racial divisions. We don't have a person to waste in this country. We are being murdered economically because we have too many dropouts, we have too many low-birthweight babies, we have too many drug addicts as kids, we have too much violence, we are too divided by race, by income, by region. And I have devoted a major portion of this campaign to going across this country and looking for opportunities to go to white groups and African-American groups and Latino groups and Asian-American groups and say the same thing. If the American people cannot be brought together, we can't turn this country around. If we can come together, nothing, nothing, can stop us.
 MODERATOR: Mr. President, one minute.
 BUSH: Well, I think Governor Clinton is committed. I do think it's fair to note - he can rebut it - that Arkansas is one of the few states that doesn't have any civil rights legislation. I've tried to use the White House as the bully pulpit, speaking out against discrimination. We've passed two very forward-looking civil rights bills. It's not going to be all done by legislation but I do think that you need to make an appeal every time you can to eliminate racial divisions and discrimination. And I'll keep on doing that and pointing to some legislative accomplishment to back it up.
 I have to take 10 seconds here at the end - the red light isn't on yet - to say to Ross Perot, please don't say to the D.E.A. agents on the street that we don't have the will to fight drugs. Please - I have watched these people. The same for our local law-enforcement people. We're backing them up at every way we possibly can. But maybe you meant that some inthe country don't have the will to fight it. But those that are out there on the front line, as you know - you've been a strong backer of law enforcement - really I just want to clear that up, have the will to fight it and, frankly, some of them are giving their lives.
 MODERATOR: Time, Mr. President. All right, let's go now to another subject, the subject of health. The first question, for two minutes is to President Bush, and John will ask it.
 
 
Fighting AIDS
 Q. Mr. President, yesterday tens of thousands of people paraded past the White House to demonstrate their concern about the disease AIDS; a celebrated member of your commission, Magic Johnson, quit, saying that there was too much inaction. Where is this widespread feeling coming from that your Administration is not doing enough about AIDS?
 BUSH: It's coming from the political process. We have increased funding for AIDS, we've doubled it, on research and on every other aspect of it. My request for this year was $4.9 billion for AIDS, 10 times as much per AIDS victims as per cancer victim. I think that we're showing the proper compassion and concern, so I can't tell you where it's coming from but I am very much concerned about AIDS and I believe that we've got the best researchers in the world out there at N.I.H. working the problem. We're funding them. I wish there was more money, but we're funding them far more than any time in the past, and we're going to keep on doing that.
 I don't know, I was a little disappointed in Magic because he came to me and I said, "Now, if you see something we're not doing, get a hold of me, call me, let me know." He went to one meeting and then we heard that he was stepping down. So he's been replaced by Mary Fisher, who electrified the Republican convention by talking about the compassion and the concern that we feel. It was a beautiful moment and I think she'll do a first-class job on that commission.
 So I think the appeal is yes, we care. And the other thing is part of AIDS - it's one of the few diseases where behavior matters. And I once called on somebody, "Well, change your behavior; if the behavior you're using is prone to cause AIDS, change the behavior." Next thing I know, one of these Act-Up groups is out saying, "Bush ought to change his behavior." You can't talk about it rationally; the extremes are hurting the AIDS cause. To go into a Catholic mass, in a beautiful cathedral in New York, under the cause of helping in AIDS and start throwing condoms around in the mass, I'm sorry, I think it sets back the cause. We cannot move to the extrteme. We've got to care, we've got to continue everything we can at the Federal and the local level. Barbara, I think, is doing a superb job in destroying the myth about AIDS. And all of us are in this fight together, all of us care. Do not go to the extreme.
 MODERATOR: One minute, Mr. Perot.
 PEROT: First I think Mary Fisher was a great choice; we're lucky to have her heading the Commission. Secondly, I think one thing - if we're set to do the job, I would sit down with F.D.A., look exactly where we are. Then I would really focus on let's get these things out. If you're going to die, you don't have to go through this 10-year cycle the F.D.A. goes through on new drugs. I believe the people with AIDS are more than willing to take that risk, and we could be moving out to the human population a whole lot faster than we are on some of these new drugs. So I would think we could expedite the problem there. Let me go back a minute to racial decisiveness. All-time low in our country was the Judge Thomas-Anita Hill hearings and those Senators ought to be hanging their heads in shame for what they did ther. The second thing, how many times in your life do you get to talk to a whole country? Let me just say this to all of America. If you hate people, I don't want your vote. That's how strongly I feel about it.
 MODERATOR Governor Clinton, one minute.
 CLINTON Over 150,000 Americans have died of AIDS, well over a million and a quarter of Americans are H.I.V. positive. We need to put one person in charge of the battle against AIDS, to cut across all the agencies that deal with it.
 We need to accelerate the drug approval process. We need to fully fund the act named for that wonderful boy Ryan White to make sure we're doing everything we can on research and treatment.
 And the President should lead a national effort to change behavior, to keep our children alive in the schools. Responsible behavior to keep people alive. This is a matter of life and death. I've worked in my state to reduce teen pregnancy and illness among children, and I know it's tough.
 The reason Magic Johnson resigned from the AIDS Commission is because the statement you heard tonight from Mr. Bush is the longest and best statement he's made about it in public.
 I'm proud about - I'm proud of what we did at the Democratic convention, putting two H.I.V. positive people on the platform, and I'm proud of the leadership that I'm going to bring to this country in dealing with the AIDS crisis.
 MODERATOR: New question for Mr. Perot. You have two minutes to answer and Ann will ask it.
 
Working in Washington
 Q. Mr. Perot, even if you've got what people say are the guts to take on changes in the most popular and the most sacred of the entitlements, Medicare, people say you haven't a prayer of actually getting anything passed in Washington. Since a President isn't a Lone Ranger how in the world can you make some of those unpopular changes?
 PEROT: Two ways: No. 1, if I get there it will be a very unusual and historical event because the people, not the special interests, put me there. I will have a unique mandate. I have said again and again, and this really upsets the establishment in Washington, that we're going to inform the people in detail on the issues through an electronic town hall so that they really know what's going on. They will want to do what's good for our county. Now all these fellows with $1,000 suits and alligator shoes, running up and down the halls of Congress, that make policy now - the lobbyists and what have you - they'll be over there in the Smithsonian, you know, because we're going to get rid of them, and the Congress will be listening to the people and the American people are willing to have fair, shared sacrifice.
 They're not as stupid as Washington thinks they are. The American people are bright, intelligent, caring, loving people who want a great country for thei children and grandchildren and they will make those sacrifices. So I welcome that challenge and, just watch, because if the American people send me there, we'll get it done. Now everybody will faint in Washington - they've never seen anything happen in that town. This is a town where the White House says, "Congress did it." Congress says, "The White House did it." And I'm sitting there, too. Well, who else could be around, you know. Then when they get off by themselves they said. "Nobody did it." And yet the cash register's empty and it used to have our money - the taxpayer's money - int it, and we didn't get the results. No, we'll get it done. We'll have to -
 MODERATOR: Governor, one minute.
 CLINTON: Ross, that's a great speech but it's not quite that simple. I mean, look at the facts. Both parties in Washington, the President and the Congress, have cut Medicare. The average senior citizen is spending a higher percentage of income on health care today than they were in 1965 before Medicare came in. The President's got another proposal that will require them to pay $400 a yar more for the next five years, but if you don't have the guts to control costs by changing the insurance system, in taking on the bureaucracies and the regulation of health care in the private and public sector, you can't fix this problem. Costs will continue to spiral and just remember this folks, a lot of folks on Medicare are out there every day making the choice between food and medicine - not poor enough for Medicare, Medicaid, not wealthy enough to buy their medicine. I've met them, people like Mary Annie and Edward Davis in Nashua, N.H., all over this country - they cannot even buy medicine, so let's be careful. When we talk about cutting health care costs, let's start with the insurance companies and the people that are making a killing instead of making our people healthy.
 MODERATOR: One Minute President Bush.
 BUSH: Well, in the first place I'd like to clear up something, because every four years the Democrats go around and say, hey, Republicans are going to cut Social Security and Medicare. They started it again. I'm the President that stood up and said don't mess with Social Security. And I'm not going to and we haven't, and we are not going to go after the Social Security recipient. I have one difference with Mr. Perot on that, because I don't think we need to touch Social Security. What we do need to do, though, is control the growth of these mandatory programs and Ross properly says, O.K., there's some pain in that. But Governor Clinton refuses to touch that. Simply refuses. So what we've go to do is control it - the growth, let it grow for inflation, let it grow for the amount of new people added, population, and then hold the line. And I believe that is the way you get the deficit down, not by the tax-and-spend program that we hear every four years whether it's Mondale, Dukakis, whoever else it is. I just don't believe we ought to do that, so hold the line on these - on Social Security and put a cap on the growth of the mandatory program.
 MODERATOR: New question. It is for Governor Clinton, two-minute answer. Sandy will ask it.
 
Costs of Health Care
 Q. Governor Clinton, Ann Compton has brought up Medicare. I remember in 1965 when Wilbur Mills of Arkansas, the chairman of Ways and Means, was pushing it through the Congress. The charge against it was it socialized medicine. One, You never -
 CLINTON: Mr. Bush made that charge.
 Q. Well, he served with him two years later in 1967 where I first met him. The second point though is that it is now skyrocketing out of control. People want it; we say it's going bonkers. Is not the Oregon plan applied to Medicaid rationing the proper way to go, even though the Federal Government last August ruled that violated the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990?
 CLINTON: I thought the Oregon plan should at least have been allowed to be tried because at least the people in Oregon were trying to do something. But let me go back to the main point, Sander. Mr. Bush is trying to run against Lyndon Johnson and Jimmy Carter and everybody in the world but me in this race. I have proposed a managed-competition plan for health care.
 I will say again you cannot control health-care costs simply by cutting Medicare. Look what's happened. The Federal Government has cut Medicare and Medicaid in the last few years. States have cut Medicaid. We've done it in Arkansas under budget pressures. But what happens? More and more people get on the rolls as poverty increases. If you don't control the health-care costs tied to inflation and population growth set by health-care providers, not by the Government. We provide for managed competition, not Government models, in every state. And we control private and public health-care costs. Now, just a few days ago a bipartisan commission of Republicans and Democrats - more Republicans than Democrats - said my plan will save the average family $1,200 a year more than the Bush plan will by the year 2000; $2.2 trillion in the next 12 years; $400 billion a year by the end of this decade. I've got a plan to control health-care costs. But you can't just do it by cutting Medicare. You have to take on the insurance companies, the bureaucracies and you have to have cost controls, yes. But keep in mind we are spending 30 percent more on health care than any country in the world, any other county. And yet we have 35 million people uninsured. We have no preventive and primary care. The Oregon plan is a good start, if the Federal Government's going to continue to abandon its responsibilities. I say if Germany can cover everybody and keep costs under inflation, if Hawaii can cover 98 percent of their people at lower-health care costs than the rest of us, America can do it, too. I'm tired of being told we can't. I say we can. We can do better and we must.
 MODERATOR: President Bush, one minute.
 BUSH: Well I don't have time in 30 seconds of whatever - minute to talk -
 MODERATOR: One minute.
 BUSH: About our health care reform plan. Oregon plan made some good sense. But it's easy to dismiss the concerns of the disabled. As President, I have to be sure that those waivers which we're approving all over the place are covered under the law. Maybe we can work it out.
 But the Americans for Disabilities Act - speaking about sound and sensible civil rights legislation - was the most - foremost piece of legislation passed in modern times. And so we do have something more than a technical problem.
 Governor Clinton clicked off the things - you've got to take on insurance companies and bureaucracies - he failed to take on somebody else; the malpractice-suit people. Those that bring these lawsuits - against these frivolous trial-lawyer lawsuits that are running to cost of medical care up by 25 to 50 billion.
 And he refuses to put anything, controls, on these crazy lawsuits. If you want to help somebody, don't run the costs up by making doctors have to have five or six tests where one would do for fear of being sued. Or have somebody along the highway not stop to pick up a guy and help him because he's afraid a trial lawyer will come along and - and sue him.
 We're suing each other too much and caring for each other too little.
 MODERATOR: Mr. Perot, one minute.
 PEROT: We've got the most expensive health-care system in the world. It ranks behind 15 other nations in - when we come to life expectancy, and 22 other nations when we come to infant mortality. So we don't have the best.
 Pretty simple, folks. If you're paying more and you don't have the best, if all else fails, go copy the people who have the best who spend less, right? Well, we can do better than that.
 Again, we've got plans lying all over the place in Washington - nobody every implements them. Now I'm back to square one if you want to stop talking about it and do it, than I'll be glad to go up there and we'll get it done.
 But if you just want to keep the music going, just stay traditional this next time around, and this - four years from now you'll have everybody blaming everybody else for a bad health-care system.
 Talk is cheap, words are plentiful, deeds are precious. Let's get on with it.
 MODERATOR: That was, in fact, the final question and answer. We're now going to move to closing statements. Each candidate will have up to two minutes. The order, remember, was determined by a drawing and Mr. Perot you were first.
 
 
Closing Statements
 PEROT: Well, it's been a privilege to be able to talk to the American people tonight. I make no bones about it, I love this country; I love the principle it's founded on; I love the people here. I don't like to see the country's principles violated. I don't like to see the people in a deteriorating economy, in a deteriorating country because our Government has lost touch with the people. The people in Washington are good people. We just have a bad system. We've got to change the system. It's time to do it because we have run up so much debt that time is no longer our friend. We've got to put our house in order.
 When you go to bed tonight, look at your children. Think of their dreams, think of your dreams as a child, and ask yourself: "Isn't it time to stop talking about it? Isn't it time to stop creating images? Isn't it time to do it?" Aren't you sick of being treated like an unprogrammed robot? Every four years they send you all kinds of messages to tell you how to vote and then go back to business as usual. They told you at the tax and budget summit that if you agreed to a tax increase, we could balance the budget. They didn't tell you that that same year they increased spending $1.83 for every dollar we increased taxes. That's Washington in a nutshell right there. In the final analysis, I'm doing this fro your children, when you look at them tonight.
 There's another group that I feel very close to, and these are the men and women who fought on the battlefield; the children, the families of the ones who died; the people who left parts of their bodies over there.
 I'd never ask you to do anything for me, but I owe you this and I'm doing it for you. I can't tell you what it means to me at these rallies when I see you and you come up and the look in your eyes, and I know how you feel and you know how I feel.
 And then I think of the older people who are retired. They grew up in the Depression. They fought and won World War II. We ow you a debt we can never repay and the greatest repayment I can ever give is to create the American dream for your children and grandchildren. I'll give it everything I have if you want me to do it.
 MODERATOR: Governor Clinton, your closing statement.
 CLINTON: I'd like to thank the people of St. Louis and Washington University, the Presidential Debate Commission and all those who made this night possible, and I'd like to thank those of you who are watching. Most of all, I'd like to thank all of you who have touched me in some way over this last year, all the thousands of you whom I've seen. I'd like to thank the computer executives and the electronics executives in Silicon Valley, two-thirds of whom are Republicans who said they wanted to sign on to change to create a new America.
 I'd like to thank the hundreds of executives who came to Chicago - a third of them Republicans - who said they wanted a change. I'd like to thank the people who started with Mr. Perot who've come on to help our campaign.
 I'd like to thank all the folks around the American that no one ever knows about. The woman who was holding the AIDS baby she adopted in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, who asked me to do something more for adoption. The woman who stopped along the road in Wisconsin and wept because her husband had lost his job after 27 years.
 All of the people who are having a tough time and the people who are winning but who know how desperately we need to change.
 This debate tonight has made crystal clear a challenge that is as old as American, the choice between hope and fear, change or more of the same, the courage to move into a new tomorrow or to listen to the crowd who says things could be worse.
 Mr. Bush has said some very compelling things tonight that don't quite square with the record. He was President for three years before he proposed a health-care plan that still hasn't been sent to Congress in total, three years before an economic plan, and he still hasn't been sent to Congress in total, three years before an economic plan, and he still didn't say tonight that that tax bill he vetoed raised taxes only on the rich and gave the rest of you a break. But he vetoed it, anyway.
 I offer a new direction. Invest in American jobs, American education, control health-case costs, bring this country together again. I want the future of this country to be as bright and brilliant as its past, and it can be if we have the courage to change.
 MODERATOR: President Bush, you closing statement.
 BUSH: Let me tell you a little what it's like to be President. In the Oval Office, you can't be predict what kind of crisis is going to come up. You have to make tough calls, you can't be on one hand with this way and one hand another. You can't take different positions on these difficult issues. And than you need a philosophical - I'd call it a philosophical underpinning. Mine for foreign affairs is democracy and freedom and look at the dramatic changes around the world. The cold war is over, Soviet Union is no more and we're working with a democratic country. Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, the Baltics are free. Take a look at the Middle East. We had to stand up against a tyrant. The United States came together as we haven't in many, many years and we kicked this man out of Kuwait. And in the process, as a result of that will and that decision and that toughness, we now have ancient enemies talking peace in the Middle East. Nobodywould have dreamed it possible.
 And I think the biggest dividend of making these tough calls is the fact that we are less afraid of nuclear war. Every parent out there has much less worry that their kids are going to be faced with nuclear holocaust. All this is good.
 On the domestic side, what we must do is have change that empowers people, not change for the sake of change, tax and spend. We don't need to do that anymore. What we need to do is empower people. We need to invest and save. We need to do better in education. We need to expand our exports and they're going very, very well indeed and we need to strenghten the American family.
 I hope as President that I've earned your trust. I've admitted it whan I make a mistake, but then I go on and help try to solve the problems. I hope I've earned your trust because a lot of being President is about trust and character. And I ask for your support for four more years to finish this job.
 Thank you very, very much.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); LOBBYING (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1993



407 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
MOZAMBIQUE SUFFERS IN PEACE
Peace is scarcely different from war for Mozambique's survivors. Hungry, thirsty and victimized by extortionate soldiers from both Government and rebel sides, many of those who lived through 16 years of war did not even know that a peace accord had been signed. A1
 
DEADLY QUAKE IN EGYPT
An earthquake near Cairo toppled buildings and caused stampedes of panicked residents. The Egyptian Goverment said 370 were killed and at least 3,300 were hurt. A1
 

BANK FRAUD CASE STATEMENTS DUE
The Senate Intelligence Committee will take statements later this week from Central Intelligence Agency and the Justice Department officials regarding their handling of a bank fraud case involving Iraq. A12
 
TROOPS MAY STAY, MANILA SAYS
The President of the Philippines offered to let some American troops remain in his country even after the United States withdraws from its last major base there. A12
 
CHINA'S PRACTICAL REVOLUTION
Capitalism, free markets and economic revolution were batted about at the Chinese Communist Party congress, but only in the pragmatic sense. A3
 
COMPLICATIONS IN SOUTH AFRICA
President de Klerk opened a special session of Parliament, pledging that his Government would not yield power to an interim administration until security for whites had been assured. He served notice that the debate over how power would be shared in a democratic South Africa was far from over. A3
 
HONORING PRE-COLUMBIAN CULTURE
On the 500th anniversary of Columbus's landing in the New World, indigenous American groups gathered to protest repression and call for a revival of their culture. A10
 
POPE ADDRESSES BISHOPS
Pope John Paul II opened a conference of Roman Catholic bishops from Latin America. They are to assess the church's work in the region, especially its focus on social and economic issues. A10
 
U.N. OPENS TALKS IN SARAJEVO
The United Nations commander in Bosnia opened talks with Serbian attackers on lifting the siege of Sarajevo. The U.N. hopes to open "a gate" to the city through a suburb controlled by Serbs. A12
 
SHEVARDNADZE IS VICTORIOUS
Voters in Georgia gave Eduard Shevardnadze the mandate he was seeking to try to reimpose control in the rebellious province of Abkhazia, according to preliminary results. A13
 
The eighth I.R.A. bomb in six days strikes London. A6
 
Seville Journal: Shunning Columbus, embracing progress. A4
 
National A14-21
 
SUPPORT FOR TERM LIMITS
Proposals to limit the terms of United States senators and representatives are on the ballot in 14 states and appear likely to pass, despite warnings by legal scholars that Federal term limits imposed by states are probably unconstitutional. A1
 
BUSH WOES ON DISPLAY
News analysis: The first debate became a showcase for the political problems of President Bush, making especially clear what a crushing burden the economy has become for his campaign. A1
 
KUWAIT TO BUY U.S. TANKS
Kuwait agreed to buy 236 American battle tanks after President Bush intervened with the Kuwaiti royal family. The $4 billion sale will save 5,900 jobs at General Dynamics plants in Michigan and Ohio, both politically crucial states. A1
 
THE FACES IN THE MIRROR
For the last 27 Presidential elections, Crook County, Ore., has been an uncanny mirror of the national mood, voting for the winner in every election since Grover Cleveland. This year, residents show a decided lack of enthusiasm for Bush. A1
 
A POLITE DEBATE
Bill Clinton prepared for the worst in the first debate, but the event turned into a relatively polite affair, with Ross Perot's presence working to the Democrat's advantage. A16
 
ASKING FOR RESIGNATIONS
Bush asked for the resignation of all Cabinet members, agency heads and senior political appointees immediately after the election, the latest effort by the White House to invigorate the struggling re-election campaign. A17
 
The candidates' stands on environmental issues. A18
 
Lesson of the debate: Be careful whom you invite. A17
 
RIOTING WITH IMPUNITY?
Thousands of people were arrested last spring in the rioting in Los Angeles, but only a fraction have been convicted. And officials say dozens got away with murder. A14
 
TEST ON ABORTION
Two months after Mississippi became the first state to enforce a 24-hour waiting period for abortions, the two sides in the debate remain divided over the rule. A14
 
A Cuban exile group tries to stop the showing of a TV documentary. A15
 
Arkansas's lieutenant governor thinks about a promotion. A19
 
The health industry pours money into Congressional campaigns. A21
 
Metro Digest B1
 
TB FEARS AMONG HEALERS
 
As tuberculosis has resurged in the inner cities, the disease has once again become a serious occupational hazard for health-care workers and others. Just as they have grown accustomed to the risk of getting AIDS at work, TB has emerged as a new and far more serious threat. A1
 
Science Times C1-10
 
Rethinking the radiation burden of Hiroshima. C1
 
Arts/Entertainment C12-18
 
Brandon Tartikoff examines his eventful life. C13
 
Fashion Page B7
 
Business Digest D1
 
Sports B8-15
 
Baseball: A's stay alive by beating Jays. B9
 
Obituaries B6
 
Robert Trumbull, former Times correspondent in Asia and the Pacific.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials
 
Unfair shots at a fair tax.
 
Term limits limit choice.
 
Police board: seek compromise.
 
Slaking California's thirst.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Bush steps aside.
 
Russell Baker: All joy departed.
 
Don M. Snider: Bomb Serbia. Stop Serbia.
 
Mary Matalin: Clinton mugs Bush.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOZAMBIQUE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CHINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SERBIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GEORGIA (52%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOZAMBIQUE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CHINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SERBIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GEORGIA (52%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERM LIMITS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); RELIGION (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



408 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: News Analysis
Bush's Burden;
Promise of Better Times in a Second Term Not Matched by Specific Agenda in Debate

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
Instead of giving President Bush the forward motion he needed so badly for his campaign, the first of the three Presidential debates became a showcase for his political problems.
The debate made especially clear what a crushing burden the economy has become for this President who courts country singers to display his common touch, but seems unable to make voters trust his instincts on bread-and-butter issues. 
 White House strategists felt that Mr. Bush needed to use the debate to instill confidence that his second term would be better than his first on domestic policy. But the President's presentation was not built around any ambitious agenda, and his tactical moves have lent the campaign a floundering, discouraged air.
Today the White House was publicly searching for gestures that would lend a sense of action to Mr. Bush's campaign. James A. Baker 3d, the White House chief of staff, sent a letter to Cabinet members, agency heads and senior Administration appointees, asking for letters of resignation dated for Election Day. [Page A17.] The letter seemed designed to deliver a message that Mr. Bush did not stress in the debate: that a second term would be dramatically different.
The appearance of floundering was reinforced in the debate when Mr. Bush blurted out that he planned to make Mr. Baker, his former Secretary of State, the domestic policy overlord in a second term -- an idea that had been kicking around since the convention but had not been adopted until the last few days.
The White House then put out word that Mr. Bush was tossing his economic team overboard to convey a sense of action on domestic issues. This amounted to a disowning of the budget director, Richard G. Darman, and a public rebuking of two loyal friends, Nicholas F. Brady, the Treasury Secretary, and Michael J. Boskin, the chief White House economist, who had already made clear their intention to leave after the election.
And the White House said Mr. Baker would step into the fray with a major speech this week on how he intended to push an economic agenda that had been relegated to campaign speech sound bites since Mr. Bush unveiled it with great fanfare last month in Detroit.
Each of these moves was an idea that had been proposed more than once in recent months and rejected by Mr. Bush and Mr. Baker as too theatrical. Even party loyalists saw them today as gestures made too late, ones that seemed a bold stroke a few months ago but that now smacked of expediency.
Steven Merksamer, a Sacramento lawyer and Republican strategist who supports Mr. Bush, said the President still had a "fundamental problem: his believability."
"A friend said to me that if he was watching the debate and didn't know a record existed, he'd be with the President," Mr. Merksamer said. "He comes across as more genuine, more sincere, more forthright. But there is the record of the last four years, and to a lot of people, that's out there and it almost doesn't matter what the President says."
All of this adds up to the conclusion that Mr. Bush's campaign is an unhappy campaign. White House and campaign aides were muttering today about Mr. Baker's attempt in a post-debate interview to deflect blame from himself by declaring, "The White House chief of staff is not the campaign chairman."
 
Atmosphere of Gloom
 Complaints about Administration officials are now routinely dismissed with a sardonic, "You won't have to worry about him after the election." And the gloom is evident in the way officials are trying to secure their futures, salvage their personal reputations and lower their expectations.
For Vice President Dan Quayle's staff, according to a Republican strategist, the campaign is rapidly becoming an exercise in making sure that Mr. Quayle does well in the debate and leaves the election able to say that he did not misstep, remained loyal to his party and was not a drag on his ticket.
In private discussions, White House and campaign officials try to put the best face on the campaign, but they do not quarrel with the notion that things are going badly for Mr. Bush. They acknowledge that Mr. Bush, at this point, is losing the election and that while gestures like jettisoning the economic team or turning to Mr. Baker might subject Mr. Bush to criticism, they are necessary medicine as time grows short.
A senior White House official acknowledged today that Mr. Baker's appointment as domestic policy chief was not likely to impress the vast majority of Americans, who probably have never heard of him.
But the official said the move was remedial action aimed at a much narrower audience: Washington journalists, Republican Party regulars and others with whom Mr. Bush's aides said he must re-establish his credibility.
"Many people have written that Baker's hiding," the official said, "that he's not really involved. This should assuage those types of comments. This is a major statement by the President that, 'Yes, I will tackle this; this is important.' "
The official added, "People in Washington view Jim Baker as a serious person, whether they like him or dislike him, agree with his policies or disagree with them."
In the aftermath of the debate, some Bush aides were second-guessing the preparation that Mr. Bush received from a briefing group headed by Mr. Darman, the budget director who was among those most likely to removed in a second administration.
"The briefing book Darman prepared for him had a ton of material on his own record and very, very little on Clinton," one official said. "There were people at the campaign who wanted to brief him on Clinton so he could turn these attacks back on Clinton. Instead, he did these defenses of his own record, which is not really at issue and he came off looking on the ropes."
But even Mr. Bush's aides seemed hard-pressed when they tried to present him as the debate's winner.
 
Restrained Comments
 Robert M. Teeter, the campaign chairman, offered the curious argument that Ross Perot won the debate and that it was good for Mr. Bush because, according to Mr. Teeter, a Perot victory is bad for Mr. Clinton.
Another aide offered this restrained analysis: "Bush seemed more mature than the other two, more up on the issues. That's a good place to begin. You can leave the remaining time for the home runs."
Some of Mr. Bush's supporters said today that as Mr. Bush tried to connect with voters' concerns, they were disappointed that during the debate he stuck to his argument that the economy was doing better than most Americans realized and relied so heavily on getting credit for ending the cold war.
"While I understand where he's coming from in saying what he said about the economy and I think he might be right in a clinical way, I don't think it resonates well with the guy that is out of a job or scared that he is going to be out of a job," said Mr. Merksamer, the California lawyer.
He added: "People are willing to give the President and the Republicans the credit for helping to end the cold war. But by the same token, they want a coherent and comprehensive program for revitalizing America in terms of its domestic policy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and his wife, Barbara, speaking with Senator Arlen Specter after arriving in Philadelphia. (pg. A1); Children immersed themselves in campaign paraphernalia during President Bush's speech yesterday at a rally in Springfield, Pa. (pg. A16) (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: ;SENATE (US) WHITE HOUSE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;SENATE (US) WHITE HOUSE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; DEBATING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (57%); COUNTRY MUSIC (57%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); BRADY, NICHOLAS (SEC); BOSKIN, MICHAEL J ; SPECTER, ARLEN (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); ARLEN SPECTER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



409 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Bellwether County;
Bellwether County Gravitates To Clinton, if Only by Default

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PRINEVILLE, Ore., Oct. 12

 BODY:
In the high desert country of Crook County, a tie is something that looks like a shoelace, Ross Perot haircuts never went out of style and the gas station serves dog biscuits for your pet while you wait. It may not seem like the rest of America, but in the last 27 Presidential elections this place has been an uncanny mirror of the national mood.
As the only county in the nation to vote for the winner in every Presidential election it has taken part in, Crook County has been politically correct, in the true sense of the term, since Grover Cleveland. 
 Sunday night's debate, competing with the student rodeo and a gun show at the fairgrounds, seemed to confirm for many here what has been obvious to them for the last six months: President Bush is not likely to win a second term. But, if Ross Perot had not disappointed so many voters here with his pullout in the summer, he would probably win this track of sage and juniper in central Oregon, population 14,111.
 
Pulse of a Small-Town
 If Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas does indeed win in three weeks, it may be as much by default as by overwhelming popularity; people here are angry enough at Mr. Bush to dispassionately favor Mr. Clinton.
"I hate to say this, because there's still some time to go, but it looks like George Bush has already lost," said Mel McCoy, a 50-year resident of the area who monitors the town mood behind the counter of his small gift and card shop here in the county seat.
There seems to be a preponderance of vaguely geologic names in Crook County where people like Slab, Rock and Cliff fit with the landscape of sunrise-colored rock formations and crinkle-skinned pine trees. This year they are treating George Bush like a piece of old jerky.
A summer survey had Ross Perot well ahead. The latest survey, a sampling of 1,200 residents last month by the local cable television company, gave Gov. Clinton a 19-point advantage over President Bush. The survey, which is not scientific, was done before Mr. Perot re-entered the race. He was preferred then by 3 percent.
Certainly many people here seem to talk in plain sentences like Mr. Perot's, parking their verbs squarely behind their nouns. But his inconsistency has rubbed a lot of people the wrong way, leading to more negative conclusions despite the points he scored in Sunday's debate.
"The problem with Perot is he's suffering from S.M.S -- small man's syndrome," said Ham Jackson, age 70. "The fact that he quit right in the middle of it, then got back in, well that's just nuts."
Katy Southwick, a 48-year-old one-time Bush supporter, said she had yet to hear anything from the President that would win back her vote. "I'm a Republican," she said between horse tending chores at a student rodeo. "I'd like to vote for Bush, but he seems too wishy-washy. Why has he waited until now to try and solve the nation's problems?"
At first glance Crook County seems an unlikely bellwether, as out of place with the main currents of modern times as its stark landscape, shaped by volcanic tumult. There are only 11 blacks in the county, which was named for an Old-West Indian fighter, General George Crook. A majority of people heat their homes with wood, and the median household income is $24,475, well below the national average of $30,056. While 75 percent of the nation's residents live in urban areas, here a majority are rural. One in five Crook County residents is a veteran, about 30 percent above the national average. The economy, hitched to timber and cattle farming, is picking up with an influx of retirees moving in from California and elsewhere.
 
'Cowboys Get It Right'
 But beyond the demographic dissimilarities with the rest of the country, Crook County has a stubborn streak of independence that may be more in line with the American character than the county's vital statistics are.
So, while the rest of Oregon voted Democratic in the last Presidential election -- one of only two states in the West denied to President Bush -- Crook County went with the rest of the nation, backing Mr. Bush by a comfortable margin.
"It's because we got so many cowboys here, and cowboys get it right," said Aaron Cochran, a tobacco-spitting shoe repairman who was looking over rifles at a Crook County gun show. "We don't have an over-population of lawyers or accountants or whatnot. We got people who are close to the earth."
Mr. Cochran, though not a supporter of Mr. Clinton, predicts that Crook County will back the Democrat and will keep its perfect record. The reason: "That read-my-lips promise from Bush killed him after he broke it, and Perot, while a lot of people liked him, ticked a lot of people off when he pulled out."
Mike Rostad, wearing a Harvard T-shirt that could not cover his tattoos, pulled his head out from under the hood of his car and predicted a big upset for Mr. Perot, in Crook County and the nation.
"Bush is out the door; no question about it" Mr. Rostad said. "Perot is coming on, talking about running the country like a business, which people like to hear."
In a trailer park on the edge of Prineville, Tony Chappell flipped the channels between the thrilling come-from-behind victory by the Toronto Blue Jays and the Presidential debate, which he found less than thrilling. Still, Gov. Clinton scored with Mr. Chappell, a 31-year-old father of two, with his talk during the debate about people working longer hours for less money. In that sense, Mr. Chappell is not unlike hundreds of manufacturing workers on the payrolls of five timber mills in the area.
"When I got out of high school in 1979, I was making $6.90 an hour pumping gas," he said. "Now I'm making $6.75 an hour at the mill. I work 60 hours a week and I'm still living at poverty level. Something's got to change."
Mr. Chappell, wearing a "Bud Dry" baseball cap, said he was a strong supporter of Mr. Clinton.
The debate does not seem to have done a thing for Mr. Bush, judging by interviews on the streets on Prineville today.
"I'm a staunch Republican, but Bush seemed in the debate like a tired politician," said Chuck Cruikshank, a high school teacher. I was a Perot fan for a while until he pulled out, and now I guess I'm leaning back toward him."
Over at the county courthouse, an imposing, century-old structure built of native stone, the political pros of Crook County seem pretty sure they can keep the winning streak alive.
"We will vote for the winner, and I'd like to think that's because people here are educated voters, people who wait and make up their minds late and aren't afraid to cross party lines," said Della Harrison, the County Clerk. "But then again, maybe we're just lucky."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crook County, Ore., is the only county in the nation to vote for the winner in every Presidential election it has taken part in. "It's because we got so many cowboys here, and cowboys get it right," said Aaron Cochran, a shoe repairman. He predicts the county will back Gov. Bill Clinton.; "I'd like to vote for Bush, but he seems too wishy-washy," said Katy Southwick, a one-time Bush supporter. "Why has he waited until now to try and solve the nation's problems?" (Photographs by John Giustina for The New York Times) (pg. A16)
 
Chart: "Debates on the Air"
 
Live television coverage of the 90-minute debates will be provided by ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, C-Span, CNN and PBS. Times are Eastern.
 
VICE PRESIDENTIAL
Oct. 13, Tuesday
Atlanta, 7 P.M.
 
PRESIDENTIAL
Oct. 15, Thursday
Richmond, 9 P.M.
 
PRESIDENTIAL
Oct. 19, Monday
East Lansing, Mich., 7 P.M.
 
(pg. A16)
 
Map of Oregon showing location of Crook County. (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OREGON; CROOK COUNTY (ORE) UNITED STATES (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (86%); COUNTIES (78%); PET FOODS (77%); TRENDS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); EGAN, TIMOTHY BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



410 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Latin Bishops Reopen Debate on Church Role

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic, Oct. 12

 BODY:
Pope John Paul II opened a major meeting of Latin American bishops today that was called to assess the Roman Catholic Church's work in the region, including its deep involvement in social and economic issues.
Church leaders in Latin America and Rome have been struggling behind the scenes for two years to set the agenda for the deliberations of the Latin American Episcopal Conference here. At issue is whether the church should maintain the course it has taken. 
 The meeting, scheduled to coincide with the 500th anniversary of Columbus's arrival in the New World, has taken on extra significance as a time for assessing not just decades, but centuries of Catholicism's role.
The working document for the sessions, which will continue until Oct. 28, places deepening poverty and social injustice at the forefront of problems that the church must address. The bishops had reacted strongly to drafts in 1990 and 1991 that played down poverty and described modern culture and secularism as the major threats to Christianity.
 
Major Turning Point
 The Latin American church's shift toward offering a message of liberation for poor and oppressed people was signaled in 1968, at a meeting of the bishops in Medellin, Colombia.
Their organization, which coordinates 22 national bishops' conferences in South and Central America and the Caribbean, met again in 1979 in Puebla, Mexico.
Despite efforts then by conservative church leaders and an ambiguous stance by the recently elected Pope John Paul II, the bishops at Puebla reaffirmed the themes of Medellin.
Today the Pope, despite speculation that he might set a new agenda or revive the priorities of the rejected preparatory documents, spoke passionately about the gap between rich and poor: "In continuity with Medellin and Puebla, the church reaffirms the preferential option for the poor."
This morning he traveled by helicopter to Higuey, where he said Mass at the national shrine of Our Lady of La Altagracia and appealed for better living conditions for rural workers.
The proposed conference document treats Latin American culture not as simply Christian but as a blend of European Christianity, Indian and African-American culture. It was produced after the leadership of the conference, which had distributed the earlier documents, changed hands. A new general secretary, Auxiliary Bishop Raymundo Damasceno Assis from Brasilia, was elected in April 1991.
 
Vatican Picks Pinochet Backer
 The outcome of the meeting may depend on appointments to key positions. Already, the Vatican has reduced Bishop Damasceno's role, appointing Bishop Jorge Arturo Medina Esteves of Rancagua, Chile, to share the duties of secretary.
Among questions the bishops are expected to address is the rapid growth of evangelical Protestantism. The working document acknowledges that this development has complex causes, but speaks of a "fanatic and growing proselytism."
Pope John Paul used even stronger language today, urging the bishops to defend their flocks against "rapacious wolves."
And, in a passage that appeared in a widely distributed advance text but which he did not deliver, John Paul echoed traditional Latin American suspicions of some American missionaries. Without naming a target, he warned:
"We must not underestimate a certain strategy whose objective is to weaken the links that unite the countries of Latin America. . . . Important economic resources are allocated toward this goal, to finance proselytizing campaigns aimed at destroying Catholic unity."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); HOLY SEE (91%); ITALY (90%); COLOMBIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (90%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH NEW WORLD LIBRARY (57%); NEW WORLD WINES (57%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DOMINICAN REPUBLIC; LATIN AMERICA LATIN AMERICA (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); HOLY SEE (91%); ITALY (90%); COLOMBIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); ROME, ITALY (90%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); RACE & RACISM (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); 

PERSON: POPE (JOHN PAUL II); STEINFELS, PETER POPE JOHN PAUL II (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



411 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Overview;
Bush Asks for Resignations Of Top Aides After Election

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
President Bush today asked for the resignation of all Cabinet members, agency heads and senior political appointees immediately after the election.
The President's order, in a memo from his chief of staff, James A. Baker 3d, to all Cabinet officers and agency heads, was the latest effort by the White House to invigorate the re-election campaign by promising that Mr. Bush would respond in a second term to the criticism that he needs to be more aggressive and responsive. 
 Mr. Baker's letter noted that such resignations are pro forma, but the timing and the public nature of the request clearly indicated that Mr. Bush and Mr. Baker are intent on finding some way to inject drama and vitality into a troubled campaign.
Before the letter was released, the White House had announced that if re-elected Mr. Bush will replace his economic team, including the three top advisers: Nicholas F. Brady, the Treasury Secretary; Richard G. Darman, the budget director, and Michael J. Boskin, the top White House economist.
The letter said: "Many of you may wish to to return to the private sector or to assume new positions in a second Bush term. As we come to the end of a first term and begin to make plans for a second, the President has asked that I repeat a customary request. Would you, immediately following the election, please submit a pro forma letter of resignation effective at the pleasure of the President."
Mr. Baker added that the letter would give the President "maximum flexibility in making the decisions necessary to staff his second Administration."
Lewis Wolfson, a professor of communication at the American University here and expert on the Presidency, said of Mr. Bush's order: "I've never heard it being done at this stage of a political campaign. In most cases, what people do is pro forma submit their resignation, but it is not done in the middle of the election campaign."
The letter came after the first Presidential debate on Sunday in St. Louis in which Mr. Bush acquitted himself well but did not seem to score the boost that his advisers had hoped for.
Mr. Clinton suggested that the personnel decision was one of desperation. "They've had a losing streak, and the coach wants to fire the team," he told reporters in Philadelphia. "In America, when you have a losing season the coach gets fired, not the team."
Mr. Clinton did not reach for any dramatic gestures today, but sought to build on his message from the debate as he continued pounding Mr. Bush on the economy. Surrounding himself in Philadelphia with former military leaders, Mr. Clinton also strove to shield himself from fresh attacks from the President about his foreign-policy credentials and his patriotism.
And Ross Perot, seeking to capitalize on a wave of positive attention from his performance, met in Dallas with advertising strategists as his supporters reported that they were getting more telephone calls than any time since July, when the Texas businessman first backed out of a Presidential run.
The Republican and Democratic nominees, each campaigning part of the day in Pennsylvania, seemed relatively subdued about their performances in the debate at Washington University in St. Louis, leaving it to their surrogates to appear on every interview show available.
As the reviews were still coming in from the clash on Sunday, the Vice-Presidential candidates were rehearsing for their only debate, to be held from 7 to 8:30 P.M. Eastern time on Tuesday in Atlanta. The event will be a departure for national political debates, with only one moderator and no panel of reporters quizzing the candidates, Vice President Dan Quayle, Senator Al Gore, the Democratic nominee, and Vice Adm. James B. Stockdale, Mr. Perot's running mate.
Mr. Clinton seemed in particularly high spirits today, with his aides saying they were convinced that Mr. Bush did nothing to damage their lead. "There is no evidence that anything happened to our base last night," Mr. Clinton said while campaigning in South Philadelphia, careful not to appear boastful. "Some polls said we won the debate, and everybody thought that I did well, so I feel good about it."
By contrast, Mr. Bush, who could not contain his enthusiasm after debating Geraldine A. Ferraro in 1984 and Michael S. Dukakis in 1988, was still describing Mr. Clinton as a master debater, as he did before Sunday's encounter. "I hope some of you tuned into last night's political talk-a-thon," the President said at a rally in Springfield, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia. "I don't pretend to be an Oxford debater, but I think I did O.K."
Facing the final three-week stretch, the Bush team today seemed to be searching for ways to breathe new life into the President's campaign and erase Mr. Clinton's lead in the polls.
 
Attack by Conservatives
 For months Mr. Bush's three top economic advisers have been under attack from conservatives who hold them responsible for the President's abandonment of his "no new taxes" pledge. Mr. Brady and Mr. Boskin had put the word out some time ago that they would not stay for a second term, and Mr. Brady today reiterated to reporters, "I have no intention of staying longer than four years."
Bush aides also said that Mr. Bush's promise during the debate to put Mr. Baker, his former Secretary of State who is now running his campaign, in charge of the economy had been discussed for months in the White House. But, they said, Mr. Bush did not act on it earlier because he did not want to dismiss top advisers.
Robert M. Teeter, the Bush campaign chairman, said the planned shift of Mr. Baker would reflect the President's new emphasis on domestic issues. "It's no secret that a lot of voters don't feel that he paid enough attention to the domestic agenda over the last couple of years."
The President in his speech near Philadelphia and later in Holland, Mich., questioned Mr. Clinton's foreign-policy credentials.
 
Question of Experience
 "It may be tempting to believe that we can turn the American Commander in Chief into the Maytag repair man," Mr. Bush declared in Pennsylvania. "But there are still dangers in the world, and you've got to ask: Who do you trust to keep your families secure?"
But Mr. Clinton sought to strengthen his credentials as a possible Commander in Chief by appearing in Philadelphia flanked by several former military leaders, many of them decorated war heros. Mr. Clinton described their endorsement as "a stern rebuke to the rhetoric of the other side."
Mr. Clinton ended his day at a rally in Charlotte, N.C., at the kickoff to a Democratic National Committee get-out-the-vote Southern bus tour. The candidate, his voice nearly ruined from the throat ailment that has plagued him all week, spoke for only a few minutes, attacking the defensive tone that marked Mr. Bush's statements in the debate on Sunday.
Though Mr. Perot made no campaign appearances today, he hit on a favorite theme in a new television commercial: the national debt. In the 60-second spot, the ad plays to viewers emotions with visual storm clouds and lightning, as the narrator says: "The national debt. It is a massive storm that is clouding America's future, an ill wind that is destroying jobs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton continued his attacks on President Bush's economic program during a speech yesterday at a rally in South Philadelphia.; Supporters of Gov. Bill Clinton waiting for the candidate to arrive yesterday in West Philadelphia. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES RESIGNATIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BUDGETS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); BERKE, RICHARD L GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



412 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: INDIANS IN PROTEST AGAINST COLUMBUS

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Oct. 12

 BODY:
Up and down Latin America today, the 500th anniversary of Columbus's arrival in the Americas was marked by tight security around Spain's embassies and by calls for cultural renewal by Indian peoples.
To highlight the achievements of pre-Columbian cultures, indigenous peoples from around the Americas converged today near Mexico City at the great Pyramids of the Sun and the Moon. At this Aztec monument, they erected steam lodges, smoked peace pipes and chanted Indian prayers. 
 The gathering mixed Eskimos from Alaska with Quechua Indians from Macchu Picchu, a Peruvian city that was the capital of the Inca empire.
"We are here to restore our culture, to honor those who fought for indigenous rights," said Gustavo Gutierrez, a 60-year-old Opata Indian from Arizona. About 500 of the Indians came on foot, leaving Alaska in May and Peru in August.
In Ecuador and Bolivia, which cover territory that was once in the Inca empire, tens of thousands of Quechua- and Aymara-speaking peasants left their villages to protest peacefully in their national capitals.
 
Ceremonies Are Discreet
 For fear of violence, the 500th anniversary was greeted with official silence or by discreet ceremonies by the continent's European-descended elite.
"We are one people," Jorge Serrano, the President of Guatemala, told his country in newspaper advertisements leading up to today's anniversary. With Indians accounting for 60 percent of Guatemala's population, resentment over economic and political dominance by descendants of Europeans has fueled guerrilla violence for 30 years.
Along South America's Andean spine, a handful of violent acts in the last week underscored centuries-old resentment over the clash of cultures. Bombs damaged Spain's Embassy in Chile, a Spanish bank in Peru and a Bolivian statue to Queen Isabella of Spain. Statues of Columbus were vandalized in Mexico and El Salvador.
 
Sit-In Blocks Highway
 Today, Indian sit-ins blocked traffic on the Pan-American Highway in Ecuador and Colombia.
In Ecuador, which has one of the most militant Indian rights movements, two Indians were killed and dozens wounded in land occupations and roadblocks in the last few days. Although most roadblocks today were carried out peacefully by Indians in ponchos playing flutes and banging drums, the Pan-American Highway was closed 20 miles south of Quito by a small dynamite blast.
On Sunday, at least 5,000 Quechua-speaking peasants gathered in an Andean village south of Quito to honor Ruminahui, an Inca military commander who was defeated and killed in 1533 by a Spanish army composed largely of gold-seekers.
In Argentina, where descendants of Europeans are a majority, Indians concluded a five-day hunger strike in a central square of Buenos Aires.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Little Observance in Genoa
 GENOA, Italy, Oct. 12 (Reuters) -- Christopher Columbus's hometown of Genoa, battered by floods and disrupted by labor unrest, virtually shunned the worldwide celebrations. The only formal civic tribute was the unveiling of a plaque at the explorer's home. Most other festivities were canceled; the city is rebuilding after devastating floods last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (65%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); ECUADOR (94%); SPAIN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); PERU (93%); BOLIVIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CHILE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); ANDES (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; ECUADOR; BOLIVIA; COLOMBIA; SPAIN; MEXICO MEXICO (94%); ECUADOR (94%); SPAIN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); PERU (93%); BOLIVIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CHILE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%); ALASKA, USA (92%); ANDES (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS ANNIVERSARIES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); VANDALISM (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); RIOTS (71%); ARMIES (69%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: COLUMBUS, CHRISTOPHER (1451-1506); BROOKE, JAMES CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



413 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
Kuwait agreed to buy 236 American battle tanks instead of British-made tanks after President Bush, Vice President Quayle and Defense Secretary Cheney intervened with the Kuwaiti royal family. The $4 billion sale is expected to preserve 5,900 jobs at General Dynamics plants in Michigan and Ohio. [Page A1.]
American workers are the world's most productive, a new study shows. In 1990, a full-time American worker produced $49,600 of goods and services, compared with a German worker's $44,200, a Japanese worker's $38,200 and a British worker's $37,100. [D1.] 
 American and European trade negotiators failed to settle disputes that have blocked progress on a broader worldwide trade pact but said that a deal was still possible. [D2.]
The financial services industry in New York welcomes the North American Free Trade Agreement, as do large manufacturers with export markets, but small companies, like those in the garment business, feel threatened. [B5.]
 
The Economy
California's cities may draw on the profits of their ports, the legislature decided in facing a $10.7 billion budget gap. The ports, the nation's busiest, fear that may be bad for business. [D1.]
The oil refining business contends it faces a depression as a result of the Clean Air Act of 1990. Rules take effect next month on gasoline supplied in winter to nine polluted areas. [D9.]
 
Markets
Commercial banks are thriving on the currency volatility that has distressed central bankers, government leaders and individual investors in recent days. [D1.]
Blue-chip stocks rebounded as investors went on a bargain-buying spree. The Dow industrials rose 37.83 points, to close at 3,174.41 after giving up 146 points since Sept. 21. [D10.]
Treasury bond prices rose in overseas trading. The United States market was closed for Columbus Day. [D18.]
Wheat and pork futures prices rose, thanks to a new United States agricultural aid package for Russia. [D20.] Both the dollar and gold fell amid speculation that interest rates might ease. [D20.]
 
Companies
Campbell Soup bid $590 million for shares of Arnotts Ltd., a large Australian cookie maker, the latest in a series of overseas moves by large American food companies. [D1.]
Muzak is going high tech. Its new owners plan to offer millions of clients electronic data messaging, as well as music. [D5.]
Intel reported a 19 percent earnings rise, but its shares slipped 62.5 cents, t0 $65.875, in heavy trading. A court ruling late Friday appeared to favor its chief rival, Advanced Micro Devices. [D5.]
Amdahl said it would lay off 900 workers, or about 9 percent of the work force of the troubled mainframe computer maker. [D5.]
Corning Inc. reported flat third-quarter earnings, of $107 million, citing a $12 million drop in Dow Corning profits. [D6.]
Westinghouse Electric reported a slim $14 million profit for the third quarter. It had losses related to its Phar-Mor stake. [D6.]
A.T.& T. and Mitsubishi agreed to settle their legal dispute over the intrusion into Mitsubishi's private United States telephone system by computer "hackers" who made illegal calls. [D5.]
 
Today's Columns
Wall Street managers and traders can vote their hopes, but they must invest their expectations. Many see a Clinton Presidency and are switching portfolios accordingly. Market Place. [D1.]
Medical malpractice lawsuits are decried by both political parties as pushing up the cost of health care. But the Congressional Budget Office says proposals are based on sketchy and often misleading beliefs. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
Talk at the Association of National Advertisers' 83d Annual Meeting and Business Conference in Hot Springs, Va., revolved around the dual concerns of the sputtering economy and the looming election. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); GLW (NYSE) (60%); GD (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); AMD (NYSE) (50%); AMD (FRA) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (63%); NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (60%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); CAMPBELL ARNOTTS LTD (63%); CORNING INC (60%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (58%); INTEL CORP (54%); DOW CORNING CORP (50%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (50%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE MFG (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BONDS (77%); WHEAT MARKETS (74%); FUTURES (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COOKIE & CRACKER MFG (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); COMPUTER MAKERS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); BOND MARKETS (68%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (66%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (65%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); TREASURY SECURITIES (50%); 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



414 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: CAMPAIGN WATCH;
Perot Shows He's the Master of Live TV

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

 BODY:
If there was a clear lesson to the Presidential debate on Sunday night, it was this: Be careful whom you invite.
Ross Perot arrived at Sunday night's encounter with nothing to lose. By yesterday morning, the consensus among the commentators was that in a sense, he had won. 
 President Bush, who had been the most eager to include the third party candidate in the debates, had emerged as the loser.
So much for trying to shake things up.
Perhaps one reason the debate did not produce a new dynamic among the three candidates, as Mr. Bush had apparently hoped, was that it was not really a debate at all. Rather, it was a joint appearance by three candidates, each of whom seemed to be attending a different event.
 
Perot Seems Lively
 Mr. Perot, the acknowledged master of live television, treated the debate much like a high-stakes edition of "Larry King Live." Although he appeared nervous at first, he quickly relaxed and went into a series of lively diatribes against men in alligator shoes. His "I'm all ears" line, widely replayed yesterday morning, was far and away the comic highlight of the evening.
Governor Bill Clinton, in contrast, treated the debate as if it was an opportunity to deliver his stump speech in one- and two-minute chunks. He did not so much seem to be answering the questions as trying to throw his voice into tens of millions of living rooms across the country.
Often the Governor sounded wooden, but, invoking the President's father, he did manage to deliver one memorable and potentially important sound bite.
"When Joe McCarthy went around this country attacking people's patriotism, he was wrong," Mr. Clinton said to Mr. Bush in a remark that was picked up on most news programs yesterday. "And a Senator from Connecticut stood up to him, named Prescott Bush. Your father was right to stand up to Joe McCarthy. You were wrong to attack my patriotism."
 
Dusting Off Old Lines
 To Mr. Bush, the debate mainly seemed to be a chance to dust off some old arguments for his re-election that interestingly enough, had not done too well the first time around. One argument, a sort of "It's Bedtime in America" appeal, is that children no longer fall asleep worrying about nuclear war. Another is that things are not as bad as they seem.
"He thinks, I think he said, that the country is coming apart at the seams," Mr. Bush said of Mr. Clinton. "Now, I know the only way he can win is to make everybody believe the economy is worse than it is. But this country's not coming apart at the seams, for heaven's sake. We're the United States of America."
So consistent was the predebate spin -- Mr. Bush needed to lap Mr. Clinton simply to stay in the race -- that the post-debate spin posed little real challenge. Television commentators, overnight polls and man-on-the-street interviews produced almost unanimous readings: Mr. Perot and Mr. Clinton were tied for first place, while Mr. Bush was a distant third.
An overnight poll of debate viewers by CBS showed 33 percent of those surveyed thought Mr. Perot had won the debate and 30 percent thought Mr. Clinton had done so, while only 16 percent thought Mr. Bush had won. An ABC poll had Mr. Clinton as the winner, Mr. Perot as the runner-up and Mr. Bush once again last.
"There were no major gaffes in the debate last night, but if there were any losers, it was George Bush," NBC's Jim Miklaszewski said yesterday morning on the "Today" program.
"I find myself leaning farther away from George Bush," Tom Roberts, an undecided voter in Columbus, Ohio, told Harry Smith on the CBS program "This Morning."
The debate, said ABC's Jeff Greenfield, was "particularly bad news for the President."
By yesterday evening, the Bush campaign seemed to have given up on the first order of spin -- trying to portray the President as the debate's winner -- and to have moved to spin once removed. Mr. Perot, by doing so well at the debate, could help the President, Bush campaign aides said. But even this relatively modest claim was greeted with derision on the evening news.
"The President's political advisers insisted with straight faces today that it's just fine with them that it's Ross Perot who's the man everyone's talking about after last night," ABC's Brit Hume said, wearing a face that could not be described as straight.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Vice-Presidential Debate"
 
Time and Place: 7 to 8:30 P.M.
Eastern daylight time at Georgia Tech in Atlanta.
 
Moderator: Hal Bruno, ABC.
 
Sponsor: Commission on Presidential Debates.
 
Topics: Open-ended.
 
Live coverage: ABC, CBS, CNN, C-Span, NBC and PBS. Radio station WINS, 1010 AM in New York.
 
Ground rules: The candidates may not take notes or props into the debate, but they may take notes during the debate.
 
Format: Mr. Bruno will introduce the candidates and will pose the first question to Vice President Dan Quayle, Senator Al Gore and James B. Stockdale will be given time to respond. Then the candidates will have five minutes, without the intervention of Mr. Bruno, to debate the question openly.
 
The moderator will repeat the process, rotating the order in which the candidates answer the questions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; TELEVISION POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; KOLBERT, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



415 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Robert Trumbull Dies at 80; Reported on War for Times

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

 BODY:
Robert Trumbull, who chronicled war, the birth of nations and sweeping economic change in Asia and the Pacific region in more than three decades as a correspondent for The New York Times, died on Sunday at a hospital in Honolulu. He was 80 years old.
Mr. Trumbull had been suffering from cancer of the throat, his daughter Suzanne said. He had been admitted to Queen's Medical Center in August for radiation treatment. 
 Mr. Trumbull was in Karachi on the day Pakistan became independent in 1947 -- and in New Delhi that night to watch India become independent. He went on to report on rioting in Punjab, war in Kashmir and the assassination of Mohandas K. Gandhi.
The leaders he interviewed ranged from King Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia to Jawaharlal Nehru of India to Ho Chi Minh of Vietnam, whom he visited in Hanoi in 1946, shortly before the war in Indochina began.
 
Traveler in the Pacific
 He roamed from Truk, in the western Pacific, to Swat, a remote fastness in Pakistan. He saw World War II in the Pacific from beginning to end, witnessing amphibious landings as Allied forces pressed in on Japan and often going ashore with United States forces.
While pinned down by Japanese gunfire on Iwo Jima, Mr. Trumbull reported by radio: "The mortar bursts marched methodically back and forth along the shoreline. Our advance is a matter of running 10 yards [on] the slithery footing of dry volcanic cinder, dropping into a hole, and then up and 10 yards to another hole."
At the war's end, he accompanied the first Marine contingent to land in Japan and was on the deck of the battleship Missouri for the formal Japanese surrender on Sept. 1, 1945.
He was able to write amicably about Japan a decade later, in describing a reconstructed old castle in ravaged Hiroshima. "To many Japanese, and visitors from other lands, the stately structure of five tiled roofs one above another is a symbol of a people's ability to rise over any catastrophe," he said.
 
Violent Partition of India
 Mr. Trumbull witnessed bitterness and hatred after the partition of India. Riding a train from Delhi to Lahore, in Pakistan, he saw a group of Sikhs attack, intent on killing Muslims.
The train, he wrote in The Times, was "halted in a lonely desert stretch by a band of screaming Sikhs with homemade spears and battle axes."
"They attempted to break into the compartment of this correspondent and two others," he wrote, "and, failing, they entered another compartment where they speared and left for dead a fellow Indian whose crime lay in belonging to another faith."
In 1948, Mr. Trumbull arrived on the scene as Gandhi lay dying in New Delhi, a few minutes after a Hindu fanatic had shot the revered leader.
"Lying on a wooden cot in his bedroom, Mr. Gandhi said no word before his death except once to ask for water," he wrote. "Most of the time he was unconscious. When he was pronounced dead by his physician, weeping members of his staff covered the lower half of his face with a sheet in the Hindu fashion and the women present sat on the floor and chanted verses from the sacred scriptures of the Hindus.
"Those who could see these ceremonies through the windows knew then that Mr. Gandhi had expired."
 
A Start in Honolulu
 Mr. Trumbull began his career at The Times in 1941, just after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, as a part-time correspondent in Honolulu. He became a full-time correspondent in 1943.
At the war's end, he was named the Times correspondent for Southeast Asia. In 1947, he began seven years' service in India. Later he wrote fondly, "If you stay in India long enough, a part of you never leaves."
Mr. Trumbull went on to serve as chief of the Tokyo bureau (1954-61), chief correspondent for China and Southeast Asia, based in Hong Kong (1961-63), and head of the Tokyo bureau again (1964-68).
He was chief of the South Pacific bureau, covering Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific islands (1968-73); chief correspondent in Canada (1974-78), and, beginning in 1978, Pacific correspondent, based in Honolulu.
He retired in 1979, when he was the senior Times foreign correspondent.
Over the years, Mr. Trumbull wrote several books about Asia and the Pacific. "The Raft," a best-seller published in 1942, was the tale of three United States Navy fliers who survived 34 days on a life raft in the Pacific. "The Scrutable East" (1964) won an award from the Overseas Press Club of America as the year's best book on foreign affairs.
His other books included "Sol Pluvius's Hawaiian Communiques" (1942), "Silversides" (1945), "India Since Independence" (1954), "As I See India" (1956) and "Nine Who Survived Hiroshima and Nagasaki" (1957).
"Paradise in Trust" (1959) analyzed the United States administration in Micronesia, and "Tin Roofs and Palm Trees" (1977) surveyed the South Pacific. "Tin Roofs," as one reviewer put it, left "few coconuts unturned all the way from Micronesia to New Caledonia, and Papua New Guinea to French Polynesia."
 
A Diplomatic Journalist
 Mr. Trumbull was a compact figure, 5 feet 6 1/2 inches and 110 pounds, and he had a knack for remaining unrumpled and engaging.
The Pacific Islands Monthly magazine wrote admiringly in 1978 that his dispatches "went far beyond the superficial observations of the usual run of hit-and-miss, once-only journalists."
Contradictions fascinated him. In 1960, during demonstrations in Tokyo against President Dwight D. Eisenhower, he noticed that a student who had kicked in the fenders of the Cadillac carrying James Hagerty, the President's press secretary, stepped on the foot of a Secret Service man.
"He was careful to smile regretfully and say, 'Excuse me,' " he wrote.
 
A Native of the Midcontinent
 Robert Trumbull was born in Chicago on May 26, 1912, to Oliver Morton Trumbull and Sydney Hamilton Trumbull, theatrical troupers who were performing there. He went to school in Kittanning, Pa., 35 miles northeast of Pittsburgh, then studied journalism at the University of Washington in Seattle from 1930 to 1933.
He joined The Honolulu Advertiser as a reporter in 1933, rising to city editor two years later, and stayed until 1943, when he became a full-time correspondent for The Times.
Three decades later, in nominal retirement in Honolulu, he sallied forth on other assignments with equanimity.
When Benigno S. Aquino Jr., the leader of the Philippines opposition, was assassinated in 1983, The Times asked Mr. Trumbull to rush to Manila until a correspondent could be assigned. He stayed for weeks, then moved on to Malaysia, Brunei, Burma and Indonesia for eight months.
Mr. Trumbull was married to Jean Musson in 1934; she died in 1991.
He is survived by three daughters, Suzanne Trumbull of Tokyo, and Joan Trumbull and Stephanie Norris, both of Sydney, Australia.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Trumbull speaking with Mohandas K. Gandhi and one of Gandhi's grandnieces while in New Delhi in 1947. (The New York Times); Robert Trumbull in 1978.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); VIET NAM (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); VIETNAM (78%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); KASHMIR (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (78%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); HANOI, VIETNAM (78%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (78%); DELHI, INDIA (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); VIET NAM (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); VIETNAM (78%); HAWAII, USA (92%); KASHMIR (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (78%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); HANOI, VIETNAM (78%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (78%); DELHI, INDIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); WORLD WAR II (90%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (89%); SHOOTINGS (77%); CANCER (77%); ASSASSINATION (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); TRAINS (73%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (72%); ARMED FORCES (66%); RELIGION (65%); 

PERSON: TRUMBULL, ROBERT; PACE, ERIC BRITNEY SPEARS (51%); BRITNEY SPEARS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



416 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Issues -- The Environment;
Clinton and Bush Show Contradictions in Balancing Jobs and Conservation

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
Both President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton say promoting economic growth is just as important as protecting the environment. But the two candidates clearly differ on how the Government should be used to set priorities and promote these goals.
Though the candidates have taken pains to prepare position papers and deliver speeches to make their differences apparent, both men have histories that are filled with contradiction on the issue. 
 That is part of the reason that Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton have given their running mates, Vice President Dan Quayle and Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, the bulk of the responsibility for talking about the environment and jobs. During the Vice-Presidential debate in Atlanta on Tuesday night, the environment is likely to be a principal focus.
In his last two years in office, Mr. Bush has come down clearly on the side of saving jobs in the short term, and that has been his emphasis as he runs for re-election. With the encouragement of Mr. Quayle, who heads a Federal panel aimed at reducing Government regulations, Mr. Bush has spent most of the last 16 months trying to roll back environmental safeguards, some of which he promoted when he was running for office four years ago.
 
Reversal on Wetlands
 He called for opening half the nation's wetlands to development, a clear reversal of a 1988 campaign promise, and proposed drilling for oil in the untouched Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska.
He urged changes in the law to allow strip mining for coal in national forests, and he dulled the effectiveness of the 1990 Clean Air Act by delaying a host of new rules and changing others.
Just three weeks ago, Mr. Bush's stance reached its height in a campaign stop in Colville, Wash. First, Mr. Bush promised to do everything in his power to remove legal restrictions on cutting the virgin forests of the Pacific Northwest. "This will not stand," he said, waving his fist and grimacing. "I mean it."
 
Conservation Law Attacked
 Then, Mr. Bush delivered the strongest attack a President has ever issued against the Endangered Species Act, calling the nation's toughest conservation law "a sword aimed at the jobs, families and communities of entire regions like the Northwest."
Mr. Bush's Democratic challenger, Mr. Clinton, calls any effort to sacrifice the environment for jobs a "false choice." He has promised to make Government an active presence on environmental and energy issues. And with his choice of Mr. Gore, of Tennessee, a leading environmental authority in Congress who is the author of a best-selling book on global resource problems, he appears ready to act on that pledge.
If he is elected, existing environmental rules will be strictly followed, Mr. Clinton has said. He said he supported raising mileage standards for automobiles 45 miles a gallon from 27.5 miles a gallon now.
Agreeing with the economists who say modernized plants are less likely to pollute, Mr. Clinton has also proposed new tax incentives and other measures to encourage such modernization.
 
Clinton Swayed by Gore
 Last week, Mr. Clinton cautiously endorsed the North American Free Trade Agreement, even though he said he was concerned that it endangered both his environmental and job creation goals. Mr. Bush's Administration negotiated the agreement in an effort to eliminate trade barriers between Mexico, Canada and the United States.
Mr. Clinton's aides said he made the decision to endorse it conditionally, in part because of his running mate's argument that it could be used to help the environment and business in all three countries. Mr. Gore argues that "the biggest new market in the history of world business is the market for new products and processes that will foster economic growth without environmental destruction." Mexico recently announced, for instance, that it was spending $4 billion in the next year just for equipment to control air pollution.
Between these competing views is the environmental program advanced by Ross Perot. Though his record is thin, and Mr. Perot has said almost nothing in public about the environment, his book that details his economic platform, "United We Stand; How We Can Take Back Our Country," includes a few proposals, although they are sketchy.
 
Little Record for Perot
 Mr. Perot calls for greater use of coal and nuclear power, coupled with conservation measures to lower America's dependency on foreign oil and avoid future oil wars in the Persian Gulf. As part of his economic plan, he urges an increase of 50 cents a gallon in gasoline taxes over five years, and this would have the effect of reducing oil consumption and air pollution.
Mr. Perot has no clear record on environmental issues. But both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush do. And the records of both indicate that the public has reason to be suspicious.
Mr. Bush's election-year attack on environmentalism is an almost complete about-face from the position he took in 1988. Next to his "no new taxes" pledge, some of the most familiar phrases from the 1988 campaign were Mr. Bush's promises to protect the environment. Mr. Bush attacked his 1988 opponent, Michael S. Dukakis, for allowing Boston Harbor to become the "dirtiest in America" and a "harbor of shame."
Mr. Bush said he wanted to be "the environmental President," and promised a new era in which the Government would exert its authority to clear the skies, clean the beaches and use the "White House effect" in international negotiations to battle the "greenhouse effect" of global warming caused by atmospheric pollutants.
Now Mr. Bush almost always refers to conservationists as "environmental extremists" whom he "will not allow to shut down the United States."
In 1988, Mr. Bush promised a new no net-loss policy to preserve the nation's marshes, bottomlands and other wetlands. But in 1991, Mr. Bush proposed a new national rule that would open half the wetlands to development.
In 1989, Mr. Bush broke a 13-year political deadlock in Congress and pushed through a new Clean Air Act, a law intended to control every important source of air pollution. But in 1992, Mr. Bush allowed Mr. Quayle and the Council on Competitiveness, the panel that he heads with a goal of reducing Federal regulation, to delay more than 50 rules and rewrite several others to limit the law's reach.
In 1989, Mr. Bush told a group of conservationists that his Administration "would provide leadership in finding cooperative international solutions" to the world's environmental problems. But in 1992, Mr. Bush was the last of the world's leaders to announce that he would attend the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, and once there gave a perfunctory speech and refused to sign a treaty to halt the decline of endangered species that had been endorsed by almost every other nation in attendance.
 
Recent White House Shift
 Environmental historians have said that no President has shifted his position one the environment so sharply. Polls in the Northwest, California, the upper Middle West and New England, regions where environmental issues are an important part of the public debate, indicate that the President's shift has not helped him gain an advantage over Mr. Clinton.
But now the tough talk is being perceived in the White House as a political liability, and efforts are under way to soften Mr. Bush's positions. Late last month, James A. Baker 3d, the chief of staff, dropped a proposal championed by Mr. Quayle to allow manufacturers to dispose of hazardous chemical wastes in town dumps. Killing the proposal was a signal that Mr. Baker was seizing control of environmental policy from Mr. Quayle.
As for Mr. Clinton, he acknowledged in a speech on Earth Day in April that too often as Governor of Arkansas he had chosen job creation over environmental concerns.
The most notorious corner of contamination in Arkansas is the region around Fayetteville where the state's enormous poultry and livestock industry is polluting the White River and its tributaries with fecal bacteria. During his terms in office 1978 to 1980, and 1982 to today, Mr. Clinton encouraged the development of the nation's eighth largest animal agriculture industry. But it took Mr. Clinton a decade to respond to the contamination of the White River, an oversight that has made the river's condition a prime target for attack by Mr. Bush.
In the Earth Day speech, and several others since, Mr. Clinton has said he has learned that such trade-offs are counterproductive because they bring greater environmental cleanup costs without producing any more jobs. He has promised that as President he would ban new offshore oil and gas drilling, support an international treaty to control emissions of carbon dioxide that add to global warming and convene a meeting to settle differences between environmentalists and loggers in the Pacific Northwest, though he says he would leave the Endangered Species Act unaltered.
The Sierra Club has endorsed Mr. Clinton, largely because of his choice of Mr. Gore as his running mate. A Clinton Administration, the candidate promises, will be active in protecting the environment, though his own record is spotty.
"I would implement many energy conservation measures, including raising corporate average fuel efficiency standards for vehicles, improving energy efficiency for buildings and expanding Federal and state technical assistance for reforestation programs," he told the League of Conservation Voters earlier this year. "Global warming poses a dire threat to human survival around the world. The potential harm to the world's food basket would be severely damaging to the United States and devastating to the developing world."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Candidates on the Environment"
THE RECORDS
 
President Bush, in his first two years, established a record on environmental issues that separated him from the legacy of Ronald Reagan. He blocked a new dam that would have flooded a scenic canyon near Denver; issued a 10-year moratorium on new oil exploration off the East Coast, southern Florida and most of the West Coast; installed a ban on ivory imports, and broke a 13-year Congressional deadlock to gain a new Clean Air Act. Over the last 16 months, though, Mr. Bush has taken a strikingly different approach by halting new environmental regulations, and rewriting others to open natural resources to development.
 
Gov. Bill Clinton's record in 12 years as Governor of Arkansas is mixed. He preserved thousands of acres of wild lands in Arkansas, promoted protections for endangered species, established a program to plant forests and directed state agencies to reduce purchases of products with chlorofluorocarbons, which destroy the atmospheric ozone shield. But Mr. Clinton was also late in recognizing the threat to the White River in northwest Arkansas from animal wastes and allowed a hazardous-waste incineration company with a poor record in another state to set up in Arkansas.
 
PHILOSOPHIES
 
Mr. Bush says he wants to promote "balance" in his environmental strategy, but his chief of staff, James A. Baker 3d, thinks the Administration's program has "tilted out of balance" away from environmental protection. Over the last 16 months, the President has proposed weakening the Endangered Species Act, stepping up logging in virgin forests, drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, strip mining coal in national forests and allowing polluters to increase toxic air emissions without penalties.
 
Mr. Clinton says the Government should become much more involved than it has been in the 12 years of Republican administrations in setting environmental priorities and enforcing rules, not only in the United States but also in other countries to curb pollution and population problems.
 
SCORECARD
 
Mr. Bush seems to be at a disadvantage on this issue. National polls consistently show that most Americans want environmental protections and do not believe a loss of jobs is the inevitable tradeoff.
 
Mr. Clinton's aides say one of the big reasons for their candidate's lead in national polls is his support for a Government that will take an active role in reshaping the nation's environmental and energy programs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ENVIRONMENT; LABOR CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); WETLANDS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); WILDLIFE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); WILDERNESS (69%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%); OIL EXTRACTION (65%); SURFACE MINING (64%); WRITERS (62%); BESTSELLERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SCHNEIDER, KEITH BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



417 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Output Per Worker Called Best

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
A new study of productivity in different countries -- the most authoritative comparison to date -- shows that the United States commands a significant lead over Europe and Japan in output per worker.
In 1990, a full-time American worker produced $49,600 of goods and services a year. In dollars of equivalent purchasing power, a German worker produced $44,200, a Japanese worker $38,200 and a British worker only $37,100, according to the study by the McKinsey Global Institute, a Washington offshoot of the McKinsey consulting firm, together with three of the nation's top productivity experts, including the Nobel Laureate Robert Solow.
 
Competition Is Cited
 America's secret productivity weapon, the report concluded, is not bigger companies, more robots or even brainier managers. Instead, it is Washington's relative reluctance to protect companies from the rigors of competition, domestic or foreign. 
 The study shows that the United States is farthest ahead in the service sector, which now employs three out of four American workers.
"We were all surprised by the extent of the U.S. lead in services," said Martin Baily, an economist at the University of Maryland who wrote parts of the report. "Most of us had concluded that the U.S. had been overtaken."
The study is not the first to reach this conclusion. But it is more convincing than earlier research because it is based on better data for manufacturing as well as detailed case studies of several service industries.
 
Ultimate Yardstick
 Productivity is the ultimate yardstick of international competitiveness. It determines not only a nation's standard of living but also status in the world. Whether it was Italy from the 13th to 15th centuries, the Netherlands in the 18th, England in the 19th or the United States in the 20th, the reigning superpower has always been the global productivity leader.
'We're trying to take the position that competitiveness is not just machinery and semiconductors but the entire economy," Professor Baily said. "The service sector is terribly important to overall living standards."
General merchandise retailing, for example, is more than twice as efficient in the United States as in Japan, largely because Japan's zoning laws save mom-and-pop stores from annihilation by the Japanese equivalents of Wal-Mart, according to one of five case studies of service industries in the report. And the deregulated American telecommunications industry is at least twice as productive as Germany's government monopoly, while the fragmented American consumer banking industry is a third more efficient than Germany's gargantuan banking oligopolies.
The United States has not had to sacrifice consumer choice or quality for greater efficiency either, the authors say, citing retail banking and telecommunications.
 
First Place Confirmed?
 Some conservative economists say the report confirms what they have long maintained: that the United States is still No. 1. "It's nice when the evidence says that what you thought was the case is the case," said John Taylor of Stanford University, a former member of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers.
The report did not attempt to explain why the productivity of the United States economy has been growing more slowly since 1973 than it has, on average, during the last century. "There's nothing in here that should make a reasonable person conclude that the trend rate of growth in productivity since 1973 has been O.K.," said Francis Bator at the Kennedy School of Government, another academic who helped shape the study.
For manufacturing, the McKinsey report draws heavily on new data, not widely disseminated here, from a Dutch research team at the University of Groningen led by Angus Maddison, one of the world's leading authorities on international economic comparisons. The Dutch comparisons are based on more appropriate and more detailed data than have been available before, in particular on hours worked and prices of factory goods needed to convert different countries' production into dollars of the same purchasing power.
It found that German and Japanese factory workers produced just 80 percent as much on average as American workers on an hourly basis.
While Japan has pulled ahead of the United States in several heavy manufacturing industries, including cars and machinery, it lags far behind in at least half of its manufacturing base. And while the United States lead in manufacturing has continued to shrink in recent years, it shrank more slowly during the 1980's -- and actually widened against Germany -- than in the first three and a half decades after World War II.
Referring to manufacturing, the authors said, "It seems likely that the United States will retain a modest productivity lead for some years to come."
That may seem surprising since the United States has been investing a far smaller fraction of its resources than Germany or Japan. But the study also found that the United States seems to have gotten more mileage from its investments than other countries, because freedom from heavy-handed regulation has allowed many industries, but especially in the service sector, to function more efficiently.
In fact, the second surprising conclusion is that America's biggest advantage consists of Washington's relatively hands-off attitude, compared with Tokyo or Bonn. This means, for example, that American companies are relatively free to lay off unnecessary workers, to change prices or to enter new businesses or leave old ones compared with their counterparts elsewhere.
America's competitors, on the other hand, have forgone higher living standards for all in order to protect the jobs of some.
"It's not obvious that the U.S. should be copying a model elsewhere," said William Lewis, director of the McKinsey Global Institute and an Assistant Secretary of Energy under President Jimmy Carter. The United States has moved faster in this direction since the mid-1970's, deregulating airlines, telecommunications, trucking and some parts of banking, among other things. Today, United States airlines are almost a third more productive than European airlines, the study reported, based on the number of workers needed to book passengers, fly them and serve them.
The researchers said they had expected the far greater size of the American passenger air market to explain most of that difference.
"Big enterprises ought to have advantages over smaller enterprises," Professor Solow said. "There are traces of that. But over all, it's not important."
In the case of airlines, for example, the cutthroat competition turns out to be far more effective in keeping the airlines efficient, than their large size or their ability to use the hub system, which brings together large groups of passengers headed for different destinations. In fact, the researchers found the much-vaunted hub system actually reduces the productivity of American airlines by requiring peak staffing.
"It means you have ground crews and ticketing agents and a lot of them," Professor Baily said. "You can't service one plane at 4 and another at 4:30 with the same crew."
If the analysis in the report is correct, it suggests that Americans bent on improving the nation's competitiveness would be ill advised to retreat from freer trade, openness to foreign direct investment or the deregulation, all of which have characterized the Carter, Reagan and Bush years.
"The case studies of service industries point up the role of competition much more sharply than the rest of the economy," Mr. Lewis said.
 
Competition Need Seen
 Indeed, the report urges the next administration -- no matter who is elected -- to stimulate more competition in services as a way of ultimately lifting living standards, along with efforts to increase saving and investment and improve worker skills.
"Deregulation of services, where it could be accomplished, is likely to pay off," Professor Solow said. "There are still plenty of restrictions on banking and I have a feeling there's less competition in writing insurance than there might be."
Professor Taylor at Stanford pointed to some other important opportunities, too: "The findings suggest to me the importance of promoting competition in other services, especially in health and education," he said. Health, education, government and nonprofit organizations that are not subject to intense market pressures employ 28 percent of America's workers, compared with 22 percent in Germany and 12 percent in Japan.
The report's authors -- all long-time Democrats -- also stressed that future administrations should press harder to get other nations to open their borders wider to American service companies. The advantage to the United States, which has been closing its trade deficit with the help of billions of dollars in service exports, is obvious, but the report also stresses that greater competition in Japan and Europe will ultimately benefit businesses in those countries as well as consumers.
But the authors argue that along with a free market approach government must also pursue full employment policies and provide cash and retraining for those who lose jobs as companies strive to become even more efficient.
 
Supports Earlier Ideas
 Though the report contradicts today's conventional wisdom, the study's conclusions support earlier research by economists like William Baumol and Edward Wolff at New York University, Dale Jorgenson at Harvard University and Robert Summers and Alan Heston at the University of Pennsylvania as well as the theme of Michael Porter, the Harvard Business School author of "The Competitive Advantage of Nations."
The detailed case studies that the team of McKinsey consultants prepared shed light on issues that have been troubling researchers like these who have been working with aggregate national income account data for years.
"There's no way to get at services through the macro data," Professor Baily said. "I was staggered by how systematic the McKinsey guys were," he added. "Somebody would raise an issue. We'd say, 'There's no data' and these guys would fly off to Europe to ask other consultants and their clients to find out for for them."

GRAPHIC: Table: "Still No. 1"
 
Thousands of dollars of goods and services produced by an average full-time worker. Percentages show workers employed in service industries.

74%	U.S.	$49.6	56	France	47.0	55	Germany	44.2	65	Japan	38.2	67	Britain	37.1		 	 	
 
(Source: McKinsey Global Institute) (pg. D19)
 
Chart: "How the Competition Measures Up"
 
Factory productivity for major industries in 1989.
 
MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES: Machinery, electrical engineering and transport equipment
JAPAN: 117%
GERMANY: 80%
 
MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES: Basic metals and metal products
JAPAN: 98
GERMANY: 85
 
MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES: Chemicals, petroleum, rubber and plastic products
JAPAN: 92
GERMANY: 70
 
MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES: Wood, paper products and others
JAPAN: 70
GERMANY: 80
 
MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES: Textiles, apparel and leather
JAPAN: 63
GERMANY: 69
 
MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES: Food products, beverages and tobacco
JAPAN: 25
GERMANY: 69
 
MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES: Total manufacturing
JAPAN: 80
GERMANY: 80
 
(Source: McKinsey Global Institute) (pg. D19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (96%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY GLOBAL INSTITUTE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCKINSEY GLOBAL INSTITUTE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GREAT BRITAIN; JAPAN; GERMANY UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (96%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); ENGLAND (73%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PRODUCTIVITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); RETAIL BANKING (83%); CASE STUDIES (78%); CARTELS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); WRITERS (66%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (65%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (65%); CONSUMER LAW (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); ZONING (60%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



418 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: CUBAN EXILES TRY TO STOP PBS SHOW

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 12

 BODY:
The leaders of the most powerful Cuban exile political group here are threatening to sue to try to stop the showing of a new television documentary, saying its portrayal of the group's role in shaping American policy toward Cuba is defamatory.
The group, the Cuban American National Foundation, warned the producer and writer of the hourlong documentary, "Campaign for Cuba," that officials of the group had reviewed the program and considered it to be "false and patently defamatory." The documentary is to be broadcast Wednesday by Public Broadcasting System stations around the country. 
 "You have been placed on notice," the group's president, Francisco J. Hernandez, said in an Oct. 6 letter to the documentary's producer and writer, Sandra Dickson. If the documentary is broadcast with material that the group found offensive, he said, "I have instructed our lawyers to proceed against you and all those involved in this program."
 
Similar Disputes With Others
 The foundation, whose activities include lobbying for more restrictive policy toward Cuba, has been involved in two similar disputes this year with a newspaper and a human rights organization that have examined its activities, and it threatened retribution in both cases. Critics have said the group uses such tactics to silence any examination of its policies.
Taking the 30th anniversary of the Cuban Missile Crisis this month as its starting point, "Campaign for Cuba," which was made under the sponsorship of the University of West Florida, examines the Cuban foundation's role in influencing American policy toward Fidel Castro and his weakening Communist regime. Much of the program focuses on Jorge Mas Canosa, founder and chairman of the organization, and what critics and analysts describe as his ambitions to succeed Mr. Castro after the fall of his Government.
Mr. Mas Canosa is described in the program as "the most powerful voice in Cuban-American politics," and he is criticized by his political opponents as rigid, intolerant and dictatorial.
In his letter, Mr. Hernandez said he objected to statements regarding the relationship between the foundation and the National Endowment for Democracy, a private organization that distributes Federal money to groups seeking to promote democracy abroad. He described statements by the documentary's narrator, Daniel Schorr, that the foundation had received nearly $1 million in Government grants since 1983 as untrue and slanderous.
But according to the endowment's own records, it gave grants totaling $780,000 to the Cuban foundation from 1984 to 1990. "The encouragement of pluralism and respect for human rights in Cuba is the objective of this grant," the National Endowment for Democracy said in a statement of its programs that is distributed annually.
Mr. Hernandez also described as defamatory remarks in which Wayne Smith, the top American diplomat in Havana from 1979 to 1982, tells an interviewer in the documentary that the Cuban foundation has made large campaign contributions to several prominent members of Congress through its political action committee, Free Cuba PAC Inc. Some of those Congressmen, Mr. Smith pointed out, oversee the National Endowment for Democracy.
Records on file at the Federal Election Commission indicate that the Free Cuba PAC has made contributions of more than $500,000 over the last decade to Republican and Democratic candidates for the Senate and House. Several Congressional members who received contributions sit on the Foreign Affairs and other committees that form policy in areas of interest to the foundation.
In a telephone interview, Ms. Dickson said she was surprised at the foundation's objections to this material. "I'm not surprised they are upset, because frankly my experience in dealing with the foundation is that they do not respond well to criticism in any way, shape or form," she said. "But if you had asked me if this would be the one thing, I'd have said no."
 
PBS to Broadcast as Scheduled
 The offices of the Cuban American National Foundation were closed today for Columbus Day, and Mr. Hernandez was said to be unavailable for comment. Mr. Mas Canosa did not respond to a telephone message left at his construction company.
Karen Watson, associate director of news and public affairs for PBS, said today that despite the threat of legal action, PBS planned to broadcast "Campaign for Cuba" as scheduled, 10 P.M. Eastern time, on Wednesday, with no deletions. (The program will be broadcast on WNET, Channel 13, in New York.)
In January, Mr. Mas Canosa described editors and reporters at The Miami Herald as propagandists for the Castro regime after the newspaper printed an editorial opposing legislation to tighten the American economic embargo of Cuba. At that time, Mr. Mas Canosa hinted he might call on Cuban exiles to boycott the newspaper. Several executives at The Herald received death threats, and several of the newspaper's vending machines were smeared with glue, excrement and graffiti, actions that Mr. Mas Canosa publicly criticized.
In August, the Washington-based human rights group Americas Watch published a report describing a climate of political repression and intimidation here and suggested that the foundation and its leaders were partly to blame. Mr. Hernandez threatened to sue Americas Watch for libel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAMPAIGN FOR CUBA (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CUBAN AMERICAN NATIONAL FOUNDATION; PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS); UNIVERSITY OF WEST FLORIDA ; NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (93%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUBAN AMERICAN NATIONAL FOUNDATION; PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS); UNIVERSITY OF WEST FLORIDA ; NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES ; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; FEDERAL AID (US); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (95%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); WRITERS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); LAWYERS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); REFUGEES (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); SCHORR, DANIEL ; MAS CANOSA, JORGE; HERNANDEZ, FRANCISCO J FIDEL CASTRO (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



419 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: California Draws On Ports' Profits

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 12

 BODY:
The State of California has found a sugar daddy to help bail it out of its financial hole. The State Legislature, facing a $10.7 billion budget gap, passed a measure last month that for the first time allows cities to draw on the profits of their ports, which have become the busiest, fastest-growing and most profitable in the nation.
What's good for the state, though, could be bad for business. The ports worry that channeling tens of millions of dollars to city coffers will force them to curtail much-needed expansion plans and, ultimately, to raise rates, sending shippers hunting for better buys at ports in the Northwest, Canada and Mexico. 
 "We are committed to California, but there are certain amounts of cargo that are truly discretionary in terms of where we bring them into the country," said Chris Lytle, general manager of North American operations on the West Coast for Sea-Land Service Inc., the nation's largest shipping concern. "We would consider bringing cargo into other areas like Tacoma, which is less expensive. Our customers in New York don't know or care if their goods come in through California or Washington as long as they get them at a fair price."
Though Mr. Lytle says California's rates are already higher than those in some other states, he acknowledges that its links with Sealand's rail and trucking operations make it more convenient.
Indeed, California's strategic position as a gateway for Asian countries is one reason why rate increases would be felt broadly. In recent years, California has become the nation's pre-eminent shipping state, with everything from cars to computers to consumer goods arriving from Asia at its ports.
In 1989, Los Angeles eclipsed New York/New Jersey as the nation's largest port in terms of value of goods handled and tonnage. Today California's five major ports, which also include Long Beach, San Francisco, Oakland and San Diego, handle more than a quarter of the country's waterborne trade.
"The entire country has a stake in what California does," said Ron Gottshall, managing director of the Transpacific Westbound Rate Agreement, a shipping industry group. "If California raises the cost of doing business there, the shipping companies will pass it on to the customer, and in some cases it may be too much for the market to bear."
 
Credit Ratings At Risk
 Squeezing the ports may actually add to California's economic difficulties by stifling capital construction projects already undertaken by the ports to meet growing shipping demand. That puts thousands of construction jobs at risk, economists and port officials said.
Under the state's Tideland Trust Act of 1911, money generated by the ports could be used only for port and tideland activities, like navigation, recreation, commerce and fishing.
That revenue screen helped California's ports earn higher bond ratings than any other port in the country. But since the enactment of the new law, the Standard & Poor's credit agency has issued a negative credit watch for all California ports.
"The Tidelands Act was put into effect to keep cities from raiding the funds of the ports and our ratings were based on that assumption," Peter Bianchini, a director in Standard & Poor's municipal finance department in San Francisco, said. "We are re-evaluating because it appears that capital projects are now less feasible and the ports are less competitive."
Thomas Dowd, professor of port and marine transport management at the University of Washington in Seattle, said a downgrade would increase the ports' cost of financing and force many to scale back expansion plans. "Why is the California Legislature sabotaging its own team?" he asked. "It's like putting leg weights on your winning relay team."
 
'A Dangerous Precedent'
 Many in the shipping industry also fear that California's action may give ideas to other states grappling with their own budget crises.
"The clear concern for the ocean- carrying community is that we don't view it as a one-time deal," said Leo Brien, president of the Pacific Merchant Shipping Association, an industry group that represents 46 major carriers. "We see it as a dangerous precedent. The ports and carriers had a sacred agreement. Now this money will be used for purposes other than what were intended."
California budget officials said the Tidelands Act allowed the ports to keep their profits as an initial incentive to develop the land. That done, the time has come to rethink their financial arrangement with the state, they said.
"It's almost scandalous that these ports have such enormous net income and they don't want to share it with the people of California," Allan Lind, a staff member for the State Assembly Ways and Means Committee, said. "To suggest that sharing a portion of profits would paralyze the harbors is simply ridiculous."
State budget officials estimate that more than 60 percent of the operating budget at the Long Beach port and more than 50 percent of the Los Angeles port's operating budget is profit.
Exactly what impact the budget agreement has on the ports depends on how much money each city requests. Under the budget stipulation, for each of the next two years, cities may solicit a minimum of $4 million from their respective ports to offset state budget cuts, and up to 25 percent of the difference between the port's current assets and liabilities.
The Port of Los Angeles stands to lose the most. Last week, Mayor Tom Bradley submitted a revised budget package that proposes taking $44 million this year from the port to help offset the city's $71 million shortfall. The City Council leadership has already expressed its intention to approve use of the funds.
"The transfer of funds from the harbor to the city's general fund is a difficult option for me to recommend because of the inevitable deleterious effect it will have on the port's competitive position," Mayor Bradley wrote to the City Council. But he said the harbor department is in a "strong financial position."
Port officials said the request would be a "devastating blow" to the port's plans to consolidate rail traffic and to create a new 350-acre pier by deepening part of the harbor to meet growing demand. The port's revenues climbed to $160.4 million last year, up from $24.9 million in 1975 and $91.7 million in 1985.
"We expect to keep growing for the next 20 years but we have to make preparations for it now," said James Preusch, the port's chief financial officer. "This is a very short-sighted way to resolve a budget crisis."
Mr. Preusch is concerned that the Los Angeles port would take a much bigger hit than its neighbor across San Pedro harbor, the Port of Long Beach, which estimates that its municipality can request only about $5 million this year, given the port's assets and liabilities. Mr. Preusch believes that Long Beach, with the same customer base as Los Angeles, would thus gain an unfair competitive advantage.
Paul E. Brown, assistant executive director at the Long Beach port, agrees that the budget agreement is unfair because it does not treat all cities and ports equally. He also fears that the state will give cities additional authority over port funds in future years. "We have effectively lost control over how we can run our business," Mr. Brown said.
 
Ports Vow Lawsuit
 Officials of the ports said that they plan to challenge the constitutionality of the budget agreement, contending that the Legislature violated the intent of the Tidelands Act.
"Using no tax money, the California ports have built themselves into the country's most important gateway for world trade," said Robert Middleton, a spokesman for the Port of Oakland, which stands to lose $4 million this year. "That success is being wiped away in one fell swoop. The shipping does not have to go through California. The Pacific Northwest and Canada are waiting."
William Friedman, a spokesman for the marine division of the Port of Seattle, said that it was too early to tell if ports in the Pacific Northwest would benefit from the California action. "But port officials up here are not happy to see it happen because they understand the increasing demands that all ports face in putting infrastructure in place to meet the global shipping market," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A measure passed by the California Legislature allowing cities in the state to draw on the profits of their ports may force the ports, like Los Angeles, above, to curtail expansion plans and raise rates for shippers. (Michael Tweed for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "The Largest Ports" shows the top ten ports in the United States, ranked in terms of the value of the cargo received and shipped in 1991. (Source: American Association of Port Authorities) (pg. D15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SEA-LAND SERVICE INC (69%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF PORT AUTHORITIES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF PORT AUTHORITIES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PORTS; FINANCES LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (75%); TRUCKING (69%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



420 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Manila May Let Some U.S. Forces Stay

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANILA, Oct. 12

 BODY:
President Fidel V. Ramos of the Philippines said today that he was willing to accept the stationing of American troops in the Philippines even after the United States withdraws from its last major military base here.
The President's remarks, made in an interview, mean that the American military presence in the Philippines will not necessarily end next month, when the Navy is scheduled to lower the flag for a final time over the huge American naval base at Subic Bay. But it was unclear what kind of military presence was contemplated, or whether the United States would be interested in any proposal that could also satisfy the Philippine Senate, which voted last year to force the United States out. 
 "What would be good for the Philippines is a continuation of the friendship -- and of the mutual security arrangement -- with the United States," Mr. Ramos said in his most detailed comments to date on the future of military ties with the United States. "We'd like to find a way to make that mutually agreeable to both governments, if that is part of what the U.S. wants."
The Bush Administration has said it would like to retain a military presence in the Philippines, and Mr. Ramos, a former general, is a longtime supporter of such a presence here. But his remarks are bound to anger political opponents who want the armed forces of the United States, which colonized the Philippines 94 years ago, to leave here once and for all.
 
Legislative Approval Uncertain
 American officials said they were not at all sure that Mr. Ramos could win approval from the Philippine Congress for a continued American military presence. But he appeared confident that a new military accord with the United States would not face the wave of nationalist sentiment that caused the Philippine Senate to reject a 1991 treaty renewing the American leases on Subic Bay Naval Station, Clark Air Base and several small installations in the Philippines.
"The issue is fading away as among the top issues of our people," he said. "I'm not too worried about the political flak."
Mr. Ramos said the Philippines was willing to accept an arrangement like that worked out last year between the Bush Administration and Singapore. Although the United States does not have a base in Singapore, it does maintain military offices there, and American battleships and military planes routinely visit Singapore for maintenance and refueling.
"I think the United States would like something like what they've got in Singapore, which is an arrangement so that U.S. aircraft and U.S. vessels with U.S. personnel can be serviced by a host government," Mr. Ramos said.
Asked how many American troops might be stationed in the Philippines, he replied, "At this point, it's premature to be talking about numbers."
American troops in Singapore number in the hundreds. In 1990, 16,000 American military personnel were stationed in the Philippines.
 
Pullout on Nov. 24
 Mr. Ramos also did not say where American troops might be based in the Philippines, although he suggested that American military "consultants" might be useful at Subic Bay after it is returned to the Philippine authorities.
Since the United States decided to withdraw its forces from the Philippines, American officials have expressed interest in negotiating commercial access to Philippine ports and ship repair facilities for Navy ships.
The Pentagon has not actively considered stationing troops here, fearing that it could resurrect the strong domestic opposition to American bases.
Last month, the Navy returned much of the Subic Bay base to the Philippine Government. It is scheduled to lower the American flag and withdraw the last of its sailors on Nov. 24. Clark Air Base was abandoned in 1991 after the devastating eruption of a nearby volcano, Mount Pinatubo.
Mr. Ramos, a former Defense Minister, took office in June after winning elections in May. In his first 100 days in office, he seems to have made a generally favorable impression, with 70 percent of Filipinos surveyed in a recent poll saying they were satisfied with the performance of his administration.
His popularity is explained in part by economic reforms, including a lifting of foreign exchange controls that had hindered investment, and by his efforts to make peace with Communist insurgents and rebellious rightist soldiers.
At the same time, his administration is grappling with criticism that it has failed to deal with a wave of kidnappings and other crime, and that he is moving too slowly in dealing with the nation's monstrous poverty.
 
U.S. Seen Turning Inward
 Mr. Ramos said he was concerned that the United States seemed to be turning inward and giving up some of its influence in foreign affairs, especially as measured in its willingness to assist developing nations.
"There are great indications of the U.S. reduction of its global concerns as far as aid and development are concerned," he said, noting the recent sharp cuts in American aid to Manila, which fell from about $500 million last year to $200 million this year.
As a result, he said, the Philippines may draw closer to its Asian neighbors.
"If that is where most of our economic partners, where most of our markets are going to be, I guess we'll just have to turn in that direction," he said. "That's why we're saying to the U.S., please don't let this so-called special relationship between our two countries die."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Fidel V. Ramos of the Philippines in Manila yesterday where he agreed to the continued presence of United States troops in the Philippines. The Navy is scheduled to close the Subic Bay base next month. (Melvyn Calderon/J.B. Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (95%); SINGAPORE (94%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES; SUBIC BAY NAVAL BASE (PHILIPPINES) UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (95%); SINGAPORE (94%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (93%); MILITARY BASES (90%); NAVIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); APPROVALS (75%); 

PERSON: RAMOS, FIDEL (PRES); SHENON, PHILIP FIDEL V RAMOS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



421 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Two Towns Use Different Tactics to Fight Beach Erosion

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEA BRIGHT, N.J., Oct. 8

 BODY:
As two of the metropolitan area's most eroded oceanfront communities, this splinter of a coastal town and the town of Westhampton Beach, L.I., have much in common. But they could hardly be further apart when it comes to staving off the sea.
Sea Bright, at the northern tip of the Jersey Shore, is an eager partner in an Army Corps of Engineers' project to build a 200-foot-wide protective beach -- roughly equivalent to 18 million truckloads of sand -- as part of the most expensive beach restoration in the nation's history. 
 But at Westhampton Beach, a far more modest restoration plan has been bogged down for years by bickering between New York State and the engineer corps as well as a homeowners' lawsuit blaming government for the loss of homes to the sea.
The difference reflects the persistent debates in all coastal areas about the cost of staving off shorefront erosion, the wisdom of using public money for a project that largely benefits private homeowners, and the ecological soundness of trying to fight back the ocean.
In both places, there are critics who say the new beaches are a waste of Federal and state tax money.
"This is shoreline pork," said D. W. Bennett, executive director of the American Littoral Society, a conservation group based on Sandy Hook, N.J., just north of Sea Bright. "You pump sand and then it goes away and then you pump it again." Maybe, he said, it's time to "let the ocean go where it may."
Proponents of the beaches argue that the work will save property and attract recreation and tourist dollars.
Bernard Moore, head of the engineering division in New Jersey's Bureau of Coastal Engineering and Flood Control, defends the plans to rebuild the beach and replenish it over 50 years at a cost of $440 million.
"There's plenty of people saying we're throwing our money away" and ought to stop development on beachfront areas, he said. "But I say everything you have has to be maintained."
New Jersey has tried to control erosion and preserve its beaches at a cost of $82 million in beachfront preservation bonds and taxpayer dollars since 1977. Most of the money has gone into the southern half of New Jersey's 127-mile shoreline, where tourists spend most of their money.
 
Two-Thirds Federal Money
 The Federal Government is required to pay 65 percent of the $200 million cost of the new beach and the $240 million projected for replenishment over 50 years. Silvio Calisi, the Corps' project manager for the beach, says that higher interest rates and inflation could drive those costs up to as much as $776 million over the half century.
New Jersey and the coastal towns getting the beach are to split the remaining costs on a 75-25 basis. The state has only $5 million available now to pay its $47 million share of construction costs and $63.2 million share of replenishment costs over 50 years.
Supporters of the project hope to finance the new beach by using $15 million a year from tax revenues on real estate sales. The Senate has approved a bill creating such a fund; action in the Assembly is pending.
The project's benefit-to-cost ratio -- the measure of dollars gained to dollars spent -- is $1.80 to $1, said Mr. Calisi, the Corps' project manager.
The Sea Bright project is expected to bring in $36.3 million in benefits in return for $20 million in expenses, Mr. Calisi said. The benefits he cited include $17.2 million in reduced storm damage, $8 million in improved land values, $9 million in increased tourist spending and $1.7 million in beach-maintenance savings in adjacent Sandy Hook.
The beaches at Sandy Hook, in the Gateway National Recreation Area, will be broadened by sands that erode from Sea Bright and drift north.
After facing the threat of being swamped for years, Sea Bright officials and most of the town's 1,700 residents are eager for the new beach, whatever the cost in state and Federal tax dollars.
Before the Federal Government agrees to the work, however, beachfront owners have to grant easements for the public to use the new beach.
All but one of the scores of property owners in Sea Bright and the neighboring towns have signed or agreed to sign the necessary easements, officials said. The holdout is Eugene A. Mulheren, the owner of the Chapel Beach Club, founded in 1864. He said the public would be welcome, as it has always been, between the water and the average high water mark on the club's beachfront, but no closer.
Mr. Mulheren's resistance is delaying the opening of bids for the Sea Bright project.
"I don't care to have new sand," Mr. Mulheren said. "We have exactly the same beach as 100 years ago because the Army Corps has never touched the property. Everything the Army Corps has down on the shore has not worked."
In Westhampton Beach, a controversy over public access is just one issue in a tangled situation.
The homeowners there do not have unanimous support. Some critics, like Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, have argued futilely for a public buyout of residents on the island's severely eroded western end.
A decade ago, Westhampton Beach owners sued the engineer corps, New York State and Suffolk County in Federal court, arguing that improper construction of a field of groins, fingers of stone built into the ocean, in the late 1960's produced erosion that led to the destruction of scores of homes and threatens others.
Until 1990, the Corps wanted to spend $160 million over 50 years to build and replenish a new five-mile beach. New York's Department of State criticized that plan as too expensive and of little public benefit. After three years of bickering, the state and the Corps agreed to construct a $45 million, 1.5-mile beach, shorten the two westernmost groins and build new ones.
William R. Brown, a spokesman for the State Department, said, however, that the plan could not go ahead until the lawsuit, including the issue of public access to the new beach, was resolved.
Gary Vegliante, president of the Barrier Beach Preservation Association, a homeowners group that brought the suit, said the homeowners were willing to let people use the 130-foot width of beach closest to the ocean, but not to come further inland. He said the state and the Army Corps were blocking a solution.
"We're willing to give away our property for free," he said. "But they," meaning government officials, "don't want that because of a perceived thought this is a rich man's project and we should be allowed to fall into the ocean."

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Jersey has tried to control erosion and preserve its beaches at a cost of $82 million in beachfront preservation bonds and taxpayer dollars since 1977. The Army Corps of Engineers recently created a new 2.5-mile beach in Ocean City, N.J., south of Atlantic City. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
 
Map shows the locations of Sea Bright, N.J. and Westhampton Beach, L.I.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%); AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (54%); AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%); AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (54%); AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SEA BRIGHT (NJ); WESTHAMPTON (NY) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES; COAST EROSION COASTAL AREAS (92%); BEACHES (91%); EROSION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); EROSION CONTROL (78%); ARMIES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); LAND RECLAMATION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FLOOD CONTROL (71%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (71%); HISTORY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TOURISM (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



422 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1753 words

HEADLINE: Trade Pact With Mexico Expected to Have Mixed Impact on Employers

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
In his 60 years as a garment maker in the New York region, Ralph Shomer has seen his share of competition from companies that have fled in search of cheaper labor.
First came the flight of garment manufacturers to the South, and then to Asia. Now, Mr. Shomer said angrily, comes the last straw: the proposed North American Free Trade Agreement, which he and many others say provides new incentives for manufacturers to move to Mexico. 
 "I may be dumb, but I don't understand how people making coats in Mexico are going to help me," said Mr. Shomer, whose Young American Clothing Company employs 52 people in Newark. "This treaty with Mexico will be the end," he said, adding that the company will close by year's end if the agreement is approved.
But James D. Robinson 3d, the president of American Express, sees the agreement differently, as do most on Wall Street. "It's pro-growth," he said.
How business people feel about the pact between the United States, Canada and Mexico depends, not surprisingly, on what business they are in. There is enthusiasm, for example, among financial service companies and the large manufacturers that have developed export markets.
But executives and economists agree that its overall impact on the New York region would be to accelerate a long established, perhaps irreversible, loss of manufacturers, particularly smaller ones.
 
Concern Over Job Losses
 A New York State Senate commission warned in a report that the state's garment industry, with 88,000 production jobs, could be "virtually wiped out" if the pact is enacted.
"If you look at this state's entire economy, the results will be a wash or better," said Vincent Tese, president of the New York State Urban Development Corporation and chief economic adviser to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. "But there will be a loss of manufacturing jobs."
There is little doubt that the biggest advantages will flow to the financial services industries. And since New York City has the largest concentration of these industries, it stands to gain more than the rest of the region.
"The treaty is an unambiguous plus for the city," said Mitchell Moss, an urban planning and economic analyst at New York University. "For the region as a whole, things are not as clear."
Analysts on Wall Street said that American Express, Eastman Kodak and other major corporations based in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut would benefit from the agreement for a host of reasons: financial service companies would no longer be barred from owning Mexican subsidiaries; the biggest manufacturing companies could begin joint ventures with their Mexican counterparts, and a large part of the banking commissions and other financial charges that result from business development in Mexico can be expected to flow to Wall Street.
Enactment of the trade agreement awaits action by Congress and the legislatures of Mexico and Canada. Last week, President Bush traveled to San Antonio for the ceremonial signing of the pact, which he called a breakthrough in international cooperation. Bill Clinton, his Democratic opponent, has given the proposed agreement lukewarm endorsement.
Whatever the economic fallout of the agreement, it may have less impact in the New York region than in Texas, California and other states that are closer to Mexico.
But in some ways, the New York region has already emerged as a laboratory for liberalized trade barriers because of the 1988 United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement, which eliminated many of the same restrictions across the Canadian border that would be carved away in the new agreement.
The impact has been clearest, and most beneficial, for New York State. The Buffalo area alone has attracted more than 80 Canadian companies, many of them small manufacturers drawn by American wage rates that are more than 10 percent lower than those in Canada.
As in the proposed pact with Mexico, the Canadian agreement reduced or eliminated tariffs that discouraged exporters from shipping goods to Canada. Analysts said the agreement was the chief reason for a 75 percent jump in exports from New York State to Canada between 1989 and last year.
"We need new markets to make new sales to support new jobs," said Kay R. Whitmore, the chairman of Eastman Kodak, based in Rochester. "If we get the business, we'll create the jobs."
 
Hope for New Jobs
 In a statement issued by Mr. Whitmore and Mr. Robinson under the aegis of the Business Roundtable, an organization of chief executives, they estimated that the group's 200 member companies "alone could account for tens of thousands of new jobs, stimulated by the North American Free Trade Agreement."
In Fairfield County, Conn., home to the headquarters of 19 Fortune 500 companies, analysts say that the GTE Corporation, the Olin Corporation and others should benefit.
"We make it a policy not to comment on these things before they are enacted, but it is safe to say we believe in free trade," said Thomas Abbott, a spokesman for the Xerox Corporation, based in Stamford, which has 500 employees in its Connecticut headquarters and 14,000 workers in and around Rochester.
In New Jersey, where Johnson & Johnson, Merck and Company, Bristol-Myers Squibb and other major pharmaceutical companies maintain large laboratories and plants, analysts say the treaty is being welcomed not only because it might lead to increased Mexican sales, but because of its provisions that would strengthen the protection of United States patents and "intellectual property."
"A strong majority of business people in New Jersey are in favor," said Alex Elwood, an analyst for the New Jersey Business and Industry Association, a business group based in Trenton. "High-tech and bio-tech companies have a lot to gain."
 
A Loss of Manufacturers
 But the commission appointed by the New York State Senate to study the agreement concluded in a report to Congress in August that it is "highly unlikely" that companies will benefit from the accord to the same extent that many benefited from the Canadian agreement. By including Mexico in a vastly enlarged inter-American trading zone, the commission warned that low wage rates in Mexico would take too many jobs away from both its northern neighbors.
Even without the Free Trade Agreement, the New York region has lost a succession of manufacturers to Mexico. Most of the losses have come from the same area that has benefited most from the 1989 Canadian agreement -- Buffalo and other western New York cities.
The list of lost manufacturers includes Trico Products, which left Buffalo, eliminating 1,700 jobs, Sherwood Medical Instruments, which eliminated 420 jobs in Sherburne, and Smith Corona, based in Cortland, which has announced it will move 885 jobs to Mexico. In all, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. estimates that New York has lost 813,000 jobs to Mexico since 1970.
 
Pinning Hopes on the Pact
 The attraction of low-wage rates is clear: plants in a free-trade district established by the Mexican government in 1965 along the border of Texas pay their workers an average of less than 59 cents an hour, according to the state Senate commission's report.
Still, not all manufacturers in the region -- even in western New York -- are opposed to the trade agreement. Among its supporters are Corning Inc., based in Corning, a diversified maker of glassware, fiber optics and the glass screens for television picture tubes.
"We consider it a plus, but how big a plus remains to be seen," said Tim Regan, a Corning vice president. He said the company's employment in the Corning area, where it has 6,000 workers, "will increase."
Provisions of the Free Trade Agreement would apply far differently to manufacturers and service companies. American manufacturers setting up shop in Mexico would benefit from an immediate reduction, and eventual elimination, of tariffs and export quotas on the products they ship to the United States or Canada.
The benefits for service companies would be broader. Many, including insurance companies, banks and brokerage firms, are now barred from establishing wholly owned subsidiaries in Mexico and limited in their investments to owning small minority holdings in Mexican companies.
 
Praise for the Agreement
 The proposed agreement would fall far short of making Mexico a free-trade zone for the financial services industry, in most cases imposing sharp limits on the share of the Mexican market American companies can ultimately claim. But it would allow wholly owned subsidiaries of United States companies to operate in Mexico, for the first time allowing banks, brokerages and insurance companies to open branches and other outlets.
"We congratulate our negotiators," said M. R. Greenberg, chairman of the American International Group, a major insurance company based in Manhattan that has for more than 20 years owned a minority interest in Seguros Interamericana, S.A., an insurer based in Mexico City.
Although the company has not disclosed whether it plans to acquire more of Seguros Interamericana, it said it was ready to pursue new investments in Mexico aggressively if the trade pact is enacted.
Still, it is clear that the Free Trade Agreement will take a toll on workers in the New York region and among companies that may already be on a road to extinction.
 
For Workers, Many Worries
 Mr. Shomer's garment company in Newark is an extreme example, but it is not alone. Many economists say that highly specialized factories close to the design centers of Manhattan will always prosper. But others say that the entire garment industry in the region is in jeopardy, and Mr. Shomer agrees.
His company's 52 workers are all Portuguese-speaking immigrants who live in Newark's Ironbound district. They earn an average of $8 an hour sewing topcoats for Manhattan designers who require unusually quick delivery. Its business has only supported a six-month work schedule during each of the last three years.
Now, he says, the threat of any of his business being shifted to competitors in Mexico is all but certain to spell the company's demise.
"My biggest worry is what these people will do," Mr. Shomer said the other day as he walked down his garment sewing assembly line.
Maria Lopez, the plant supervisor, said virtually all of her fellow workers had come from small towns and farms of Portugal, and had few skills to offer in the American job market besides sewing.
"If this plant closes, there is nothing for us," Ms. Lopez said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Commerce: Trading With the Neighbors"
 
Exports from the New York region to Mexico and Canada have risen over the last five years, with the largest increases to Canadian buyers. The growing exports to Canada are attributed partly to the United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement, which ended many trade barriers in 1988. Shown are New Jersey, Connecticut and New York exports of manufactured, agricultural and other goods to Mexico and Canada, yearly, since 1987. Financial, legal and professional services are not included. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (96%); MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: ;YOUNG AMERICAN CLOTHING CO AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;YOUNG AMERICAN CLOTHING CO US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; MEXICO; NEW YORK STATE; CANADA UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (96%); MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); ASIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; LABOR; FORECASTS; APPAREL; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) ; SMALL BUSINESS TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); APPAREL MFG (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CITIES (85%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); CITY LIFE (67%); LAND USE PLANNING (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (62%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J ; SHOMER, RALPH RALPH SHOMER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



423 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Amdahl Will Lay Off 9% of Its Work Force

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 12

 BODY:
The Amdahl Corporation, the troubled mainframe computer maker, said today that it would lay off 900 workers, or about 9 percent of its work force, next month.
Company officials said that they had recently seen a significant drop in capital spending by major customers such as airlines and banks and that a strong backlog for its top-of-the-line machines had now disappeared. 
 Last month Amdahl's president and chief executive officer, Joseph Zemke, said the company was likely to register a loss when it reports its earnings for the third quarter on Oct. 30.
 
 
'Largely the Economy'
 Of the 900 workers that Amdahl will lay off, 600 will be from the company's Northern California operations. The computer maker has headquarters in Sunnyvale, Calif., and approximately 5,700 of its 9,700 employees work there.
"It's largely the economy," Bill Stewart, a spokesman for Amdahl, said. "I don't think we're being hurt by the downsizing trend. Obviously there are applications that should be moved off the mainframe, but frequently that just creates more demand for large computers."
Analysts said that Amdahl was suffering in part from the significant head start that I.B.M. got in the market for the newest generation of mainframe computers. Amdahl is also at a disadvantage because of a shift in the way mainframes are being marketed, Robert Djurdjevic, an industry analyst who is president of Annex Research, a Phoenix consulting firm, said. Increasingly the big machines are sold as packages of hardware, software, peripherals and service, and the International Business Machines Corporation has a significant advantage in offering attractive packages.
Mr. Djurdjevic said that Amdahl was having particular trouble selling in the United States market. "In I.B.M.'s case the mainframe business is doing well, particularly in U.S., where Amdahl is having trouble," he said.
 
Severance Benefits
 The company said its laid-off workers' severance package would include at least 12 weeks of pay and benefits, as well as assistance in finding new jobs.
The company, which said last month that it expected its quarterly loss to be between $11 million and $22 million, said today that it would take an additional one-time charge of $15 million to $20 million against third-quarter earnings. The computer maker had sales of $1.7 billion last year.
In November 1989 the company laid off 5 percent of its work force, or about 400 workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (95%); 6702 (TSE) (95%); IBMC (BRU) (83%); IBM (NYSE) (83%); IBM (LSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMDAHL CORP FUJITSU LTD (95%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMDAHL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (LABOR) MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); TRENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: MARKHOFF, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



424 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Dow Gains 37.83 in Light Holiday Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rebounded yesterday in trading that was light because of the Columbus Day holiday. The Dow Jones industrial average, which fell 64 points last week, rose 37.83 points to close at 3,174.41.
Stocks rose briskly at the opening and held their gains for most of the session. Analysts said stocks were due for a rebound because the Dow average has fallen 146 points since Sept. 21. 
 Larry Wachtel, market analyst for Prudential Securities, said the early buying began in the Chicago futures markets, where investors picked up bargains after Friday's 39-point fall in the Dow. That buying spilled over onto Wall Street.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by nearly 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 126.7 million shares, down from 178.9 million Friday.
Some analysts said the market rebounded on the hope of lower interest rates. The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, told reporters on Saturday that the central bank would not be swayed by election-year politics on cutting interest rates to spur the economy. But he nevertheless seemed to hold out hope for lower rates.
Tom Gallagher, head trader at Oppenheimer & Company, said, "There is some feeling that there might be a unified rate cut this week" by several countries.
Officials of the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, are scheduled to meet later in the week, and Mr. Greenspan is scheduled to visit Japan this week as well.
The market's reaction to Sunday night's debate among President Bush, Bill Clinton and Ross Perot was difficult to assess.
"I really can't link it to the debate," Mr. Wachtel said of the market's gain. Some dealers had been concerned that if Mr. Bush performed poorly, it would hurt stocks.
Jack Solomon, market strategist for Bear, Stearns & Company, said: however, "The debate was a success. Why? Because nobody lost."
General Motors gained 1 5/8, to 30 3/4, in active trading. The auto maker reached agreement with the United Automobile Workers union late Friday to avert a strike at a plant in Indiana.
The New York Stock Exchange's composite index gained 2.17, to 224.28, and the American Stock Exchange market value index rose 1.13, to 365.98.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (68%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FUTURES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); POLITICS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); THOMAS C GALLAGHER (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



425 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Europe Fail To Settle Trade Issues

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Oct. 12

 BODY:
Trade negotiators from the United States and the European Community were unable to reach an agreement today after two days of talks aimed at settling festering disputes that have blocked progress on a broader worldwide trade pact.
The two sides said that they had made progress, however, and held out some hope that a deal was still possible. They said that meetings between their technical staffs would continue, and that Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, would meet again on Saturday in Toronto with Frans Andriessen, the European Community's External Affairs Commissioner. 
 But for the session here to break off without a deal was a clear setback to both sides' hopes of avoiding a trade war and of breaking the logjam that has blocked a liberalized global trade pact under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
 
 
French Pressure
 Neither the United States nor the European Community divulged any details of the talks, which centered on agricultural subsidies. But Mr. Andriessen and Ray MacSharry, the European Community's Agriculture Commissioner, were under intense pressure from France not to make any concessions that would result in a reduction of subsidies to French farmers, who are a potent political force.
The lack of an agreement also set back the hopes of the Bush Administration that it would be able to bring home before the election a free-trade deal that could eventually stimulate the economy.
The United States and Europe have been arguing for several years about the allowable level of subsidized farm exports, as well as about other issues -- including access to each other's telecommunications markets. The United States has threatened to impose $1 billion in punitive tariffs on certain European exports to the United States if Europe does not agree either to reduce government payments to growers of oilseeds or to compensate the United States for sales lost because of the subsidies.
 
 
Spur for Trade
 If the two sides cannot settle their dispute, or if the United States imposes the threatened tariffs, there would be almost no chance of completing a new and more liberal GATT agreement, which economists said could spur an additional $200 billion of world trade each year.
The failure to forge an agreement in the talks here will increase tensions at the European Community's one-day summit meeting Friday. Germany and Britain had been leading the push to reach a deal with the United States, saying that flagging European economies need the economic stimulus a trade agreement would bring. But France's Socialist Party Government, which faces an election next year and cannot afford to alienate farmers, has been adamantly opposed and has made clear that it would block any deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY; GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (90%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY; GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (90%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (88%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); AGRICULTURE (67%); OILSEED FARMING (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W FRANS ANDRIESSEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



426 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Bond Prices Up Overseas

BYLINE: By the Associated Press

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday in overseas trading. The United States market was closed for Columbus Day.
The quoted price in London of the Treasury's main 30-year bond gained 2/32 percentage point, or 63 cents per $1,000 in face amount. Its yield was 7.51 percent, down from 7.52 percent late Friday. 
 Government securities are traded on foreign financial markets, but there is little interest when United States market participants are away.
Long-term bond prices gained on light volume after a dismal week that saw the 30-year bond fall more than $20 because of dimmer prospects for lower interest rates.
The Federal Reserve did not lower rates last week to stimulate the economy -- which would have pushed up bond prices -- despite further weak economic data, particularly an Oct. 2 report showing poor employment.
Later this week, the market is expected to receive data on September inflation and retail sales.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities in London, short-term maturities were unchanged to up 3/32 point and intermediate maturities rose between 3/32 point and 5/32 point, according to the Telerate Inc. financial information service. The movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value.
Prices of short-term Treasury bills were not quoted because of the holiday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (68%); TRI (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (68%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

COMPANY: THOMSON REUTERS CORP (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); BONDS (94%); BOND MARKETS (93%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); INFLATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); RETAIL SALES (53%); 

PERSON: CLARE SHORT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



427 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Frank Mercurio, 80, an Enforcer Of Labor Laws for Four Decades

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Frank B. Mercurio, a longtime enforcer of labor laws, died on Saturday at St. Mary's Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80 years old.
The cause of his death was not immediately available. 
 Mr. Mercurio, a foe of the sweatshops in New York and New Jersey, was a native of Utica, N.Y. He moved to Florida after his retirement about 10 years ago.
Mr. Mercurio attended Northwestern University, majoring in political science and administration, and graduated from the chemical-warfare school at Amherst University. During World War II, he worked in the National Mobilization Strike Force of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
After the war, Mr. Mercurio was for 10 years an assistant Industrial Commissioner in the New York State Department of Labor. There he administered the enforcement of laws dealing with minimum wages, unemployment insurance, child labor and health and safety standards.
In 1955 he began a nearly 30-year career with the United States Department of Labor when he was named a deputy director of its Region II in Manhattan, covering New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Three years later, he became the director of the region's Wage and Hour and Public Contracts Divisions. His jurisdiction included more than five million working people in more than 200,000 companies.
His Chinatown Strike Force fought rampant abuse of workers in the garment industry. "The problem of the undocumented alien is one of the greatest magnitude," he said in 1979 as the regional administrator of Employee Standards. "There exist in the Greater New York area thousands of illegal aliens who are being exploited by unscrupulous employers, especially in the service industries."
Mr. Mercurio was a Special Assistant in the Office of the Secretary of Labor and a consultant to private industry on white-collar crime when he retired a few years later.
Mr. Mercurio is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Mabel Gillespie, and several nieces and nephews.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: UTICA, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FRANK B ROSS CO INC (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); UTICA, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SWEATSHOPS (78%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); CHILD LABOR (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (56%); 

PERSON: MERCURIO, FRANK; SAXON, WOLFGANG FRANK B MERCURIO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



428 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
U.S. Aid Package for Russia Lifts Pork and Wheat Prices

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 12

 BODY:
A new United States agricultural aid package for Russia helped lift wheat and pork prices today, although trading volume on United States commodity markets was slowed by the Columbus Day holiday.
Traders said the Russians were expected to act quickly to buy United States food products in response to the Bush Administration's long-awaited offer of $775 million in credit guarantees and food assistance, which was announced on Friday. 
 Wheat futures responded by opening strongly and then moving steadily higher at the Chicago Board of Trade. December wheat soared 10.5 cents, to $3.52 a bushel.
The bullishness was also enhanced by the trade agreement the United States reached with China over the weekend. The pact gave a sense of relief to traders worried that China would go elsewhere to buy wheat.
 
Corn and Beans Up
 Corn and soybean prices rose modestly, as farmers remained busy harvesting bumper crops and were not selling their grain. December corn gained 1.5 cents, to $2.09 3/4 a bushel, and November soybeans added 4 cents, to $5.36 3/4 a bushel. December oats gained 2.75 cents, to $1.36 1/4.
 February pork belly futures at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange rose the daily limit of 2 cents a pound, to 41.3 cents a pound, reacting to the $50 million pork allocation in the Russian aid package. Although analysts had predicted for several months that meat would be included in the aid package, the actual announcement gave the market a psychological boost.
October hog futures added 1 cent, rising to 43.575 cents a pound.
 Higher cash cattle prices and the strong pork futures market lifted cattle prices as well. December live cattle rose 0.8 cent, to 74.475 cents a pound, and November feeder cattle gained 0.7 cent, to 83.3 cents a pound.
 
Oil Prices Decline
 Oil prices, which rose last week, fell slightly with news of higher OPEC production last month and Iraq's release over the weekend of a captured American munitions expert.
The Middle East Economic Survey estimated that OPEC pumped nearly 25 million barrels of oil a day in September, about a half-million barrels more than in the previous month.
November crude oil fell 7 cents to $22.30 a barrel at the New York Mercantile Exchange. November unleaded gasoline dropped 0.53 cent to 60.43 cents a gallon, and November heating oil declined 0.41 cent to 65.48 cents a gallon.
November natural gas tumbled 6.3 cents, to $2.23 for a million British thermal units.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (71%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES; GRAIN; PIGS AGRICULTURAL PRICES (95%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (93%); FUTURES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); OATS MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); PORK (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (67%); HEATING OIL (67%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



429 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1735 words

HEADLINE: Gaining From Turmoil in Currencies

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The recent turmoil in the world's currency markets produced its share of casualties: central bankers who spent billions in a futile effort to prop up Europe's weaker currencies, government leaders who have seen the drive to European unification stalled and small American investors in global money-market funds who got burned when currencies like the pound fell sharply.
Yet the last few weeks have been made to order for trading profits at the big commercial banks. Their trading floors are the hub of the $1 trillion-a-day currency market, and the banks thrive on the volatility that central bankers and government leaders fear. 
 "From a business point of view, I'm delighted by it," said James Borden, a senior vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank, who heads the bank's foreign exchange operations in New York. "It's great for people like me."
The currency market combines elements of economics and gambling, and in their role as middlemen the banks benefit from both. "If you're the bookie, you like a lot of action," said Lowell Bryan, a banking expert at McKinsey & Company.
The banks' currency trading revenues for the third quarter have not yet been reported, and trading profits are notoriously tricky to predict. But banking analysts and consultants estimate that the recent gyrations in the market may increase pretax income from foreign exchange by 50 percent to 100 percent in the third quarter above the quarterly average last year for the six big American banks that deal in the currency market: Citicorp, Chemical, Bankers Trust, BankAmerica, J. P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan. That adds up to an extra $250 million to $500 million for the six banks combined.
"I think you'll find that all the big dealer banks did well during this period," said Donald Layton, a senior executive vice president of Chemical Bank.
The foreign exchange market has grown by 50 percent in the last three years, with an estimated $1 trillion worth of all manner of currencies traded every day. The business has mushroomed thanks to the liberalization of financial markets, the growing links among national economies and modern computer and telecommunications technology. Corporations, pension funds, mutual funds and speculators have all become larger and more sophisticated players in the currency market.
In recent years, income from foreign exchange has become increasingly important to the major banks. Citicorp, the largest, had foreign exchange income of $709 million last year, up from $453 million in 1987. Yet like the currency markets themselves, foreign exchange income can rise and fall unpredictably.
"It's a very good business for the banks, but it makes their income statements more volatile," said James McDermott, president of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., a banking analysis firm.
Banks do make money by making speculative bets with their own funds on whether the dollar, say, will rise or fall against the German mark. Such bets can be made for minutes or days, depending on the trader's strategy. But banks typically generate the bulk of their income as market-making dealers, profiting from the difference between the price at which they buy and the higher price at which they sell a given currency.
The difference, expressed in hundredths of a percent, is known as the "spread." At times last month, for example, the spread on the British pound as it fell rapidly under furious selling pressure from investors and speculators was 10 times wider than normal, or 50 points instead of the usual 5 points.
The widening of the spreads occurs partly because of the greater risk to the dealer when prices are gyrating, but also because buying or selling immediately is more important to customers than hunting around for the best prices. The wider spreads and the surge in trading volume explain the extraordinary opportunity the banks have enjoyed.
 
How Stability Can Evaporate
 The last few weeks have been a striking example of how quickly stability can evaporate in today's currency markets. Politicians and commentators have placed much of the blame for turmoil on speculators, portrayed as latter-day marauders roving from country to country, despoiling currencies. These speculators would include bank dealers trading for their own account and professional speculators.
The biggest speculators tend to be a secretive breed, disclosing little about their activities. But they were among the highest-paid individuals on Wall Street last year, Financial World magazine reported, with George Soros of Soros Fund Management leading the list at $117 million, Paul Tudor Jones 2d of Tudor Investment at $60 million, Bruce Kovner of the Caxton Corporation also at $60 million, John Henry of John W. Henry & Company at $50 million and Lewis M. Bacon of Moore Capital Management at $20 million.
Most of their funds trade not only in currencies, but also in stocks and commodities.
The growth of speculative currency funds has been considerable. For example, a group of 29 such funds tracked by Ferrell Capital Management, a Greenwich, Conn., investment manager, have increased their assets to more than $5 billion, from $1.4 billion in 1990.
But funds are not big daily traders, said Mark Fitzsimmons, a senior vice president at Millburn Ridgefield Corporation, a good-sized currency fund with about $650 million invested by wealthy individuals, private companies and Wall Street firms. "Volatility doesn't really help us," he said. "We look for a trend."
 
Tracking Trends by Computer
 Millburn uses sophisticated computer models to divine trends of a few weeks or longer, tracking things like trading patterns and country-to-country lags between interest rate shifts and currency movements. From April to September, betting against the dollar, Millburn gained 28 percent. But after Finland let the markka float on Sept. 8, effectively devaluing it, and the European currency markets began roiling, Millburn closed out its positions. Suddenly, its computer models showed confusion rather than a discernible trend. In September, Mr. Fitzsimmons said, Millburn did not turn a profit.
While professional speculators sold embattled currencies, bank traders say the real pressure came from a more respectable class of players -- mutual funds, corporations and pension funds. "It all started with the fund managers," said David Puth, a managing director and chief of currency trading for Chemical Bank in New York. "It's the capital movements led by international investors that really move currencies today."
The growth in short-term global income funds exemplifies the shift abroad in the mutual fund industry. The short-term global funds claim assets of more than $20 billion, up from less than $500 million in 1989, with offerings from Alliance, Fidelity, Merrill Lynch and dozens of others. The appeal of these funds to investors has been higher yields than money-market funds in the United States.
Fund managers attained those higher yields thanks to the European exchange rate mechanism, which allowed Europe's currencies to fluctuate only within narrow ranges. For example, the currency risk of holding a high-yielding British bond was limited, in theory, because the value of the pound could not drop lower than its floor in the European monetary system.
 
Safety Net Disappeared
 But when the mechanism cracked last month, "the theory of a government-guaranteed safety net was shot to hell," said John Rekenthaler, an analyst at Morningstar Inc., a mutual-fund research group.
As Germany refused to lower its interest rates appreciably and Britain, in the grip of a deep recession, decided it could not raise its rates any further to defend the pound, the funds sold pounds and other weak European currencies.
"These huge pools of money got spooked, and they trampled the European monetary system," said Francoise Soares-Kemp, a senior manager at Credit Suisse Bank.
As investors pulled their money out, the assets of the short-term global income funds declined to $21 billion by Sept. 30, from more than $23 billion at the start of September, said Robert Adler, president of AMG Data Services of Arcata, Calif.
The wave of sell orders streamed into bank trading rooms. Recognizing the direction of the market, bank traders bet some of their own money, adding still more pressure on the embattled currencies. Europe's central banks spent heavily to try to prop up the 11-nation monetary system, but it gave way with Britain and Italy dropping out.
The major central banks are estimated to have lost as much as $6 billion in recent weeks, spending their reserves to buy weaker currencies, which then fell further in value.
On Chase Manhattan's 35th-floor trading room, near Wall Street, a team of 50 salespeople and traders ply the currency markets. Though a bank may make a profit on perhaps only 35 percent of its transactions, its floor is there to deal. "As major market makers, we want to be a part of as much of the flow as possible," explained Mr. Borden, the head of the operation, at 52 years old a graying veteran of the currency markets. "That's what gives us a sense and smell of the market."
 
Big Rewards for Dealers
 Four months ago, for example, Chase dedicated two salespeople to handle trade-related currency deals for regional banks, which now generate turnover of nearly $2 billion a month and give Chase another perspective on the market.
The dealers are young, mostly in their 20's and 30's, often have advanced degrees in mathematics, business or computer science and represent a multitude of nations including Japan, Sweden, Spain, Pakistan and Korea. With salaries and bonuses, bank traders can make from $100,000 to $500,000, but stars who take big positions and win have made a few million dollars a year.
Chase has a reputation for taking smaller risks than high rollers like Bankers Trust, but also gaining a steadier pattern of income from foreign exchange. Mr. Borden explains that his traders are given monthly income targets, ranging from $50,000 to $500,000, depending on their experience and the currencies they trade. "What you want is consistency from the team," he said.
But in the volatile markets of late, big gains were easier to come by. "If you have the right people in the right place at the right time, you can hit home runs time after time," Mr. Borden said. "That was what happened recently."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The trading rooms of big commercial banks are the hub of a $1 trillion-a-day currency market. At Chase Manhattan Bank, James Borden, a senior vice president, stands by Arnold Niemanis, a currency trader. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. D18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (60%); CHEMICAL BANK (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; BANKS AND BANKING; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BRITISH POUND (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE DONALD H LAYTON (79%); JIM MCDERMOTT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



430 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off in Light Trading; Gold Posts a Steep Decline

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell yesterday against other leading currencies in thin trading amid renewed speculation that interest rates still might ease.
Gold prices fell sharply. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery fell $5.20 an ounce to settle at $345.20. The Republic National Bank of New York reported a late bid price for gold of $345.85, off $4.45. 
 John Lipsky of Salomon Brothers said the only news of interest to the currency market was that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, had said during the weekend that the Fed would not let political considerations stop it from cutting interest rates again if needed to stimulate the sluggish economy.
A lower interest rate makes the dollar less attractive to foreign investors.
But given the "small magnitude of the move, it would be heroic to read too much into" yesterday's dollar trading, Mr. Lipsky said.
Lucille Palermo, vice president of Van Eck Associates, said the drop in gold prices seemed to be based on a large amount of gold entering the market from one source. She said there were unconfirmed reports that the source was Middle Eastern.
The dollar fell to 120.85 Japanese yen in New York trading, compared with 121.80 late Friday. Overnight in Tokyo, the dollar fell to a closing 121.02 yen from 121.55 at Friday's close. Later, in London, it rose to 121.05 yen.
In New York trading, the British pound rose to $1.7080, from $1.6945 late Friday. In London, the pound rose to $1.7045, from $1.6855 late Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's rates, included: 1.4685 German marks, down from 1.4865; 1.3080 Swiss francs, down from 1.3155; 4.9875 French francs, down from 5.0460; 1,291 Italian lire, down from 1,304, and 1.2445 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2487.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (72%); HSB (PAR) (72%); HBC (NYSE) (72%); 0005 (HKSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (72%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); US DOLLAR (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



431 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Business and Health;
Dealing in Myths On Malpractice

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim

 BODY:
BOTH President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton want to change the system under which patients can bring medical malpractice lawsuits against doctors and hospitals. But the Congressional Budget Office and other experts who have studied the numbers say such proposals are based on sketchy and often misleading beliefs about the costs involved.
Mr. Bush brought up the issue again in the debate Sunday night. He challenged Mr. Clinton to take on "the medical malpractice people," who Mr. Bush said are responsible for "these frivolous trial-lawyer lawsuits that are running the cost of medical care up by $25 to $50 billion." 
 There was no further discussion of malpractice lawsuits at the debate. But last month, Mr. Clinton said in an article in The New England Journal of Medicine that there should be changes to "take disputes out of the court system and effectively and fairly address the concerns of patients and physicians." Administrative agencies decide malpractice awards in a number of states now.
Mr. Bush favors an American Medical Association proposal for a $250,000 limit on pain-and-suffering awards; Mr. Clinton has not endorsed a ceiling. California has a $250,000 cap, which expires at year-end unless the Legislature renews it.
The American Medical Association estimates that $5.6 billion a year is spent on insurance premiums to protect doctors from lawsuits and that another $15 billion of annual health costs can be attributed to the defensive tactics that doctors use, like ordering redundant tests.
Kirk B. Johnson, the American Medical Association general counsel, said a cap on pain-and-suffering awards would remove "the windfall" for lawyers who represent injured patients. And the California Medical Association said the limit there had saved doctors and hospitals more than $1.3 billion a year in insurance premiums.
But the Congressional Budget Office said, in a new report to the House Ways and Means Committee, that the evidence is "that the larger estimates are too high and that restructuring malpractice liability alone would not generate large savings in U.S. health-care costs."
Malpractice premiums account for less than 1 percent of the estimated $817 billion in national health spending this year, the budget office said. It added that "much of the care that is commonly dubbed 'defensive medicine' would probably still be provided" if the lawsuits were eliminated.
"Physicians have always sought to provide patients with the best possible medical care at the lowest risks and would continue to do so even without the threat of lawsuits," the report said.
Michael J. Saks, a University of Iowa law professor and social psychologist, said, "Much of what we think we know about the behavior of the tort litigation system is untrue, unknown or unknowable." Tort is a legal term for a wrongful act that can be the basis of a civil lawsuit.
"This is a system that is there to serve society" by compensating innocent victims for injury and deterring wrongful behavior, Professor Saks said.
A. Russell Localio, a researcher at Pennsylvania State University's medical school at Hersey, said capping awards could make it difficult for people who are severely injured to find lawyers to handle expensive malpractice lawsuits.
He also said that one large study, by Harvard University researchers in New York State, concluded that only "a very small percentage of people who are injured as a result of negligence go on to file a malpractice claim."
Several studies have concluded that sympathetic juries often overcompensate people who have relatively minor medically induced injuries, while people with the most serious problems often do not get enough. Huge awards are often reduced by higher courts, and a plaintiff typically gets one-third of the reduced amount, after expenses.
Randall R. Bovbjerg, a senior research associate with the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research center in Washington, said, "The system works better than the doctors think." And, he added: "Health care is a lot better than the lawyers think. The typical lawyer only sees terrible cases."
"The biggest problem is that most cases aren't in the system," Mr. Bovbjerg said. "It is inherently slow, costly and, in any given case, uncertain." He favors setting benchmarks for juries to consult -- calibrating awards for pain and suffering to the severity of injury and the victim's age. Economic damages, covering future loss of income, could be standardized by providing an annuity or trust guaranteed for life, he said.
As for insurers, Barry Johnson, a spokesman for the St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, said his company had recently raised malpractice premiums an average of 10 percent following a slight rise in claims. That came after claims had dropped sharply from 17.9 per 100 physicians in 1985 to a low of 12.5 in 1989;, they have since risen somewhat, reaching 13.9 last year.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS AND HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (63%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (82%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (82%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (82%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (82%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MALPRACTICE; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PERSONAL INJURY (89%); TORTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



432 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Campbell Seeks the Rest Of Australian Cookie Maker

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
The Campbell Soup Company made a $590 million bid yesterday for the two-thirds of a large Australian cookie maker that it does not already own.
The bid for Arnotts Ltd., described as "the Nabisco of Australia," is the latest in a series of offers for medium-sized food companies overseas made by American manufacturers, facing slow growth at home. 
 David Johnson, chief executive of Campbell's, said Arnotts would serve as a key foothold for expanding into Asia. "Asia is a key growth area for Campbell," he said. The company plans to start selling its familiar red and white cans of soup in China next week.
Campbell's has owned 33 percent of the shares in Arnotts since 1985 and is the company's biggest shareholder. The Arnotts board will meet to consider the offer on Wednesday. The board has hired an investment banking firm to study the fairness of the offer, which requires approval from a majority of shareholders. Analysts said it was possible that Campbell would be forced to sweeten its bid or that a competing offer could emerge. "I would not be surprised if Campbell has to increase its bid, said David J. Adelman, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds. The current bid represents a 10 percent premium over the Arnotts closing stock price on Friday. "That is a full and fair price," said a Campbell spokesman, Kevin G. Lowery. He said another bidder was unlikely, in light of Campbell's large existing stake. Campbell's stock closed down 75 cents yesterday at $41.125 in trading on New York Stock Exchange.
Last week, H. J. Heinz announced that it had acquired Wattie's Ltd., a New Zealand food company, for $300 million. "Everybody is seeing Australia as the springboard to get into Asia," said John M. McMillin, an analyst with Prudential Securities.
Last month, the Philip Morris Companies said it planned to buy the Norwegian candy maker Freia Marabou A.S. for $1.5 billion.
"Companies are looking overseas," Mr. Adelman said. "That is where the growth is. They are going where you have an increase in population and an increase in per capita consumption."
 
Contrast to Lackluster Increases
 In sharp contrast to the lackluster increases that United States food companies are posting on their home turf, Campbell's said that sales of its Swanson broths were growing by 30 percent a year in Hong Kong.
In acquiring Wattie's, a maker of baked beans, dog food and frozen foods, Anthony J. F. O'Reilly, chairman of Heinz, said New Zealand would be an important manufacturing base for Asia, a market that Mr. O'Reilly said had "substantial growth potential."
"The United States food industry is going through a very challenging period," said Frank Blod, a consultant with New England Consulting in Westport, Conn. The purchase of food, "for the first time in many years, is being influenced by macro-economic factors, such as unemployment."
As a result, stiff consumer resistance to price increases is hurting profits. Yesterday, the Department of Agriculture said that food prices would rise by only 1 percent this year, the smallest increase in 25 years.
Also, Mr. McMillin said that food companies had been slower to expand overseas than concerns like Coca-Cola and the Procter & Gamble Company, in part because food products were less universal than soup or soft drinks. "Synergies are more of a challenge in foods than other industries because of strong regional tastes," Mr. Blod said.
Consumers in other countries eat far less prepared foods than they do in the United States. People bake cakes from scratch and do not use frozen food, for now at least. This creates huge opportunites for American companies to export the more "high tech" food developed in the United States.
Like other recent bidders for overseas concerns, Campbell would be acquiring a company with similar businesses.
If the bid is accepted, Campbell, owner of Pepperidge Farms, will take control of the world's seventh-largest cookie company. 'It makes strategic sense," Mr. McMillin said. "Too often, people buy what they don't know."
Mr. McMillin added "Campbell is trying to change from a conservative North American soup company to a global soup and biscuit company." Campbell was invited by management to invest in Arnotts in 1985, to help fend off a takeover offer from the investor Alan Bond. One of the country's more recognizable brands, Arnotts is the largest cookie and cracker company in Australia, with about 60 percent of the market. The company had sales of $511 million in its most recent fiscal year. Mr. Johnson of Campbell said Arnotts products would be expanded throughout Asia, using Campbell's sales force.
The deal requires the approval of the Australian Government.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Kraft's Bid Backed
 OSLO, Oct. 12 (AP) -- Majority owners of Freia Marabou, Scandinavia's largest chocolate company, said today that they would accept a bid for their shares by Kraft General Foods, a unit of Philip Morris.
Kraft said it had received shareholder approval that would give it 57.2 percent of the total share capital. The buyout, which has stirred protests by Norwegians, must be approved by the Government.
In a separate statement, Norsk Hydro, a Norwegian energy, chemicals and metals company, said that it and its pension fund had agreed to Kraft's offer of $77 a share for 44.1 percent of the Freia Marabou stock.
Kraft said Sweden's food and drug group Procordia A.B. had agreed to sell 6.9 percent and Pauling Services Ltd. had accepted the offer for its 3.9 percent. Other minority shareholders that accepted the offer were not named.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Feasting Overseas"
 
U.S. commpanies that have acquired, or have sought to acquire, foreign food companies over the last month.
 

U.S. COMPANY	FOREIGN COMPANY	PRICE	Cambell Soup	Arnotte Ltd., Australia	$590 million bid	J.H. Heinz	Wattie Food, New Zealand	$300 million acquisition	Philip Morris	Freia Marabou, Norway	$1.5 billion bid	
 
(pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (95%); MO (NYSE) (84%); HNZ (NYSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (95%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (95%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (91%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (73%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (73%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (73%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (73%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (93%); AUSTRALIA (91%); ASIA (90%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ARNOTTS LTD; CAMPBELL SOUP CO CAMPBELL SOUP CO (95%); CAMPBELL ARNOTTS LTD (91%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); H J HEINZ CO (73%); WATTIE'S LTD (65%); FREIA MARABOU AS (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARNOTTS LTD; CAMPBELL SOUP CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (93%); AUSTRALIA (91%); ASIA (90%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES COOKIE & CRACKER MFG (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); SPECIALTY CANNING (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); DOGFOOD & CATFOOD MFG (73%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); PET FOODS (72%); CONSUMPTION (71%); SALES & SELLING (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); ACQUISITIONS (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); EXECUTIVES (56%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN DAVID S JOHNSON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



433 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Main Topics for Marketers: Economy and the Election

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

DATELINE: HOT SPRINGS, Va.

 BODY:
THE dual concerns of the sputtering economy and the looming election dominated the discussions yesterday here at the 83d Annual Meeting and Business Conference of the Association of National Advertisers.
At one point, the twin topics converged for America's largest marketers when L. Ross Love, the association's 1991-92 chairman, read greetings from President Bush. 
 "While unfavorable economic conditions have made this a difficult time for industries such as yours," President Bush wrote, "I believe that we have many reasons to be optimistic about the future." There was no response from the audience.
One speaker, Stanley C. Gault, chairman and chief executive of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, used a tale about J. Walter Thompson, the agency founder, to comment on the nation's economic woes.
Mr. Thompson, riding the subway, was approached by "a rather seedy- looking man," Mr. Gault said, who was wearing sandwich-board advertising signs. Asked his profession, Thompson replied, "advertising."
"Me, too," the man responded, Mr. Gault said. "And ain't it hell when the wind blows your boards?"
"The economic winds have been howling for several years," Mr. Gault when on, "and they've been taking a heavy toll."
"It is hell when the wind blows," he added, "but it does force us to concentrate on the tried and true sales and marketing principles that will once again contribute significantly to the success of American business in the 90's."
Mr. Gault, who demonstrated extensive sales and marketing skills at General Electric and Rubbermaid before tackling Goodyear's woes, said that detractors "suggested I was a prime candidate for the next commercial for the Maalox moment" when he decided to join the tire company last year.
He described an intensive new advertising program he has been introducing at Goodyear that includes innovative television commercials for the Aquatred tire by J. Walter Thompson Inc. It also includes a subtle strategy of furnishing videotapes to high school driver education classes that contend that "the more advanced the wet-traction design," the better the tires -- which is Aquatred's selling point.
The results are that Goodyear expects to sell nearly one million Aquatred tires by the end of the year, generating almost $100 million in revenues, Mr. Gault said.
The economy even intruded on a panel discussion about ethics in advertising, a subject that the panel reassured the audience several times was not a contradiction in terms. Burt Neuborne, a professor at the New York University School of Law who was the panel moderator, asked, "Can ethics survive bad economic times?"
David E. Collins, president of Schering-Plough Healthcare Products, said: "That's an incomplete view of advertising.
"I view advertising as a long-term investment in the brand, in the company reputation. Any short-term gain one is targeting at the expense of the long term is a misuse of advertising."
There does seem to be more optimism about the economy here than was evident at last year's conference in Phoenix. Yet what impact that might have on advertising spending, which fell 1.5 percent in 1991, is unclear. Many marketing executives have long since stopped listening to the bright forecasts made at pleasant, genteel and remote resorts like the Homestead, the setting for this conference, which are immediately recanted once everyone returns to the reality of their workplaces.
Discussion of Sunday's Presidential debate continued throughout yesterday. More than once, heated words were exchanged between a large number of stalwart Republicans supporting President Bush and a vocal minority favoring Ross Perot. As for Gov. Bill Clinton, one attendee said the only way he would be reconciled to the Democrat's victory would be by the simultaneous election of a Republican Congress.
At a reception Sunday evening, the usual schmoozing almost came to a halt as attendees stopped to watch the debate on three television sets provided by the reception's sponsors: the ABC, CBS and NBC networks.
While providing the sets seemed self-defeating for the networks, it was far more successful than the reception they sponsored last year, during the World Series. With no television sets in the room then, attendees put in perfunctory appearances and wandered off to watch the game in bars or in their rooms.
Turning to the association's own elections, the board, as expected, elected Harry E. Davis as 1992-93 chairman, succeeding Mr. Love. Mr. Davis is director of communications in the external affairs department at E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company in Wilmington, Del. Richard A. Garvey, vice president of marketing at Lego Systems Inc., was, as expected, elected to succeed Mr. Davis as vice chairman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GT (SWX) (85%); GT (NASDAQ) (85%); GT (BRU) (85%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (85%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (85%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (85%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (85%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (85%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (60%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (60%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: ASSN OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (85%); JWT (71%); MERCK CONSUMER HEALTHCARE GROUP (60%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSN OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); TIRES (88%); ETHICS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RUBBER & SILICONE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (66%); DRIVER EDUCATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



434 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: CPC's Profits Increase 55.5%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., Oct. 12

 BODY:
CPC International Inc. today reported a 55.5 percent increase in net income for the third quarter, citing gains in North America, Latin America and Asia.
The gains offset an 18 percent increase in financing costs and weaker performances in the European operations of CPC, the nation's third-largest food company and a leading refiner of corn. 
 CPC's products include Hellman's and Best Foods mayonnaise, Mazola corn oil and margarine and Skippy peanut butter.
CPC's net income rose to $117.4 million, from $75.5 million in the similar 1991 period. Earnings per share increased from 48 cents to 76 cents. The results of the 1991 quarter included a loss of $31.5 million from discontinued operations.
Sales in the latest quarterwere $1.6 billion, up 6.7 percent from $1.49 billion a year ago.
Shares of CPC gained 37.5 cents today, closing at $45.50, on the New York Stock Exchange.
C. R. Shoemate, CPC's chairman and chief executive, said the company was pleased with continued gains in North America, Latin America and Asia. He said an economic downturn was hurting business in several European countries.
Earnings rose 13 percent for CPC's consumer foods business. Profits increased 5.4 percent in the corn refinery operations, where corn is converted into edible and nonedible products.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPC (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (93%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (76%); EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: CPC INTERNATIONAL INC CPC INTERNATIONAL INC (93%); UNILEVER UK FOODS LTD (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CPC INTERNATIONAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (76%); EUROPE (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); WET CORN & VEGETABLE MILLING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FOOD MFG (71%); OILS & FATS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); EXECUTIVES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



435 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Narrows Plan for Improving Taxi Service

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Retreating from a plan to fundamentally reorganize New York City's taxi industry, Mayor David N. Dinkins has prepared a more modest proposal to improve cab service outside the Manhattan business districts.
The Mayor is scheduled to announce today that he will seek approval for the creation of new hack stands in northern Manhattan and the boroughs outside Manhattan, along with a new class of "community cabs," livery taxis that would be allowed to wait for riders at the hack stands, an adviser to the Mayor said yesterday. 
 Mr. Dinkins proposed a much more ambitious effort last January to improve service outside Wall Street and mid-Manhattan. That plan would have permitted radio cabs in northern Manhattan and the boroughs outside Manhattan to cruise for riders and to pick them up on the streets. Only the city's medallion, or yellow, taxis are now allowed to pick up street hails.
 
Politically Powerful
 But Mr. Dinkins's proposal -- like more than a half-dozen plans devised during the 1980's by his predecessor, Edward I. Koch -- was blocked by several of the politically powerful interests in the city's fragmented, complex taxi industry. The industry, particularly the owners of yellow taxi medallions, have long wielded considerable clout in the City Council, whose approval is needed for changes in the system. Many segments of the industry thought the Mayor's initial plan would have been too expensive because it also called for new medallions for livery cabs and the elimination of the free market in yellow medallions.
Mr. Koch used to say that two words summed up why his proposals were blocked in the City Council: "Stanley Friedman," who was then the Bronx Democratic leader.
Mr. Dinkins's latest proposal is supported in principle by representatives of the industry's various sectors, including yellow medallion cabs and livery or radio-car services, who sat on a committee he created to sift through his initial plan, the mayoral adviser said.
Industry leaders could not be reached yesterday for comment on the Mayor's latest plan. Telephone calls to more than a half-dozen taxi industry representatives went unanswered on the Columbus Day holiday.
Several elements of the new plan would require approval by the City Council, which historically has resisted changes in the current system.
Peg Breen, a spokeswoman for Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, said the Council's leaders were also concerned about better service in the boroughs outside Manhattan and would schedule hearings to consider the latest proposal.
Discussions with the Mayor's advisory committee led to the latest plan. Industry leaders on the committee acknowledged that yellow cabs work primarily in Manhattan and the airports, and cruise infrequently in other parts of New York, the adviser said. The owners of yellow medallions, which have been frozen at 11,787 medallions since 1937, fear that if the city were to permit radio cars and other livery services to pick up street hails outside Manhattan, drivers of those cars would be emboldened to pick up people hailing cabs below 96th Street in Manhattan -- infringing on the yellow cabs' business.
Taxi industry leaders also agreed that New Yorkers outside lower and central Manhattan, who generally must telephone a radio-car service for a taxi, could be better served, the adviser said. From that came the idea for new hack stands, which would be set up by the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission at subway stops, shopping districts, hospitals and busy intersections scattered throughout all five boroughs.
It could not be learned yesterday exactly how many hack stands would be created, or even whether the number and placement of the stands has yet been determined.
 
'Community Cabs'
 The broad outlines of the revised proposal were clear, however. A new class of livery cars, called "community cabs," would be created. They would be permitted to pick up riders at the new hack stands, and they would continue to be allowed to accept passengers through radio calls.
The new community cabs would have roof lights, similar in concept to those that yellow cabs have but sufficiently distinct in design so that the two kinds of taxis could be differentiated. The new cabs would carry the livery company's name on the outside, along with fare schedules. The cab could use meters or could charge on a zone basis.
The city would also put a limit on the number of radio-car bases -- the storefronts from which livery taxis and the proposed community cabs would work. The cap, whose number has not yet been decided, could be changed by the City Council if lawmakers thought it necessary.
The number of radio cabs and community cabs that each base operated would not be regulated by the city and would be decided by the base owners, based on economic need.
The mayoral adviser argued that the new proposal would accomplish the same goal as Mr. Dinkins's original plan: improving service to the neighborhoods outside central and lower Manhattan where much of the Mayor's core political constituency resides.
Even if the livery taxis had been granted the right to pick up street hails, the adviser contended, many would not have cruised because it would not have been economically feasible in the less densely populated parts of Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and Staten Island.
 
A Major Complaint
 The Mayor's latest plan also tries to address the major complaint from the taxi industry, which has long argued that the city does not do enough to keep unlicensed, or gypsy, cabs from stealing their business.
Owners of yellow cabs contend that both the gypsy cabs and the licensed livery cars often defy the law by picking up street hails in Manhattan and elsewhere. Owners of radio-car services outside central Manhattan often complain that gypsy drivers operate with impunity around subway stations, hospitals and busy intersections in boroughs outside Manhattan, essentially stealing passengers from licensed livery operators.
Mr. Dinkins's latest proposal calls for a threefold increase in enforcement by the Taxi and Limousine Commission. An unspecified number of new inspectors would be hired, with the cost to be covered by raising fees the city charges taxi owners.
The plan also calls for the city to create as many as 413 additional yellow medallions, to be sold at market rates, currently about $140,000 per medallion. The revenues raised by the sale of the new medallions would be used solely to help finance the stepped up enforcement against illegal operators.
Adding to the number of yellow medallions may require an environmental review, the adviser to the Mayor said. It would also require approval from the Council, which has previously shown great reluctance to expand the size of the yellow-cab segment of the industry.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "TRANSPORTATION: Comparing Cab Proposals"
 
DINKINS'S ORIGINAL PROPOSAL
Allow licensed livery cabs to pick up people on streets in northern Manhattan and the boroughs outside Manhattan and wait for passengers at designated hack stands.
In return, the city would sharply step up enforcement against illegal gypsies who steal business from the licensed car services outside central Manhattan and against the gypsy- and livery-cab drivers who pick up street hails in Manhattan.
To help yellow-cab owners who fear a drop in the value of their medallions, the city would eliminate the private, free market in yellow-cab medallions and redeem them at a price close to current market value.
To finance the redemptions and license livery cabs for street pickups, the city would issue two new classes of medallions to livery cabs and to the so-called "black cars," the fancier radio cabs that operate primarily in Manhattan.
 
NEW PROPOSAL
Livery cabs would not be allowed to pick up passengers on the street. But a new class of taxis called "community cabs," would be allowed to wait for riders at designated hack stands. It is not clear how many stands would be created.
The city would put a cap on the number of radio-car bases -- the storefronts from which livery taxis and the proposed community cabs would work. The number of radio cabs and community cabs would not be regulated.
The city would triple the amount of enforcement against illegal operators. An unspecified number of new inspectors would be hired, to be financed by raising the fees that the city charges taxi owners.
The city would create as many as 413 new yellow medallions, to be sold at market rates. The revenues would help finance the stepped-up enforcement against illegal operators. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (97%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); FINDER, ALAN DAVID N DINKINS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



436 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
U.S. SHOE TO SHUT OHIO PLANT AND CUT JOBS ELSEWHERE

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The United States Shoe Corporation said yesterday that it would close its Ripley, Ohio, plant and reduce employment at a related Harrison, Ohio, site, putting about 300 people out of work. The moves will actually affect about 400 jobs, but managers said they hoped to place about 100 of those people elsewhere in the company. 
 The moves are part of United States Shoe's plan to cut costs and get rid of excess manufacturing capacity, Robert Burton, a company spokesman, said. The Cincinnati-based company is a specialty retailer of women's apparel, footwear, eyeglasses and contact lenses. Its operations include Lens Crafters and Casual Corner stores.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USR (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES SHOE CORP (US SHOE CORP) U S SHOE CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SHOE CORP (US SHOE CORP)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RIPLEY (OHIO); HARRISON (OHIO) UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS (LABOR) UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (85%); PLANT CAPACITY (85%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (83%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (82%); RETAILERS (82%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (52%); 

PERSON: ROBERT G BURTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



437 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Slaking California's Thirst

 BODY:
Congress approved new water policies last week to help California defeat drought and start restoring rivers and marshes severely damaged after having been pumped nearly dry for decades, to keep irrigation ditches full.
The package was written by a rare coalition of Eastern and Western members of Congress, led by two Democrats, Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey and Representative George Miller of California. It prevailed despite objections from California's Governor, Pete Wilson, who called it the opening shot in "a second century of California water wars." 
 Governor Wilson and others, including Vice President Quayle, are trying to promote a Presidential veto. President Bush would be wise to ignore them and sign the bill. California desperately needs its provisions; it is edging into what could be a seventh year of drought and the third year of its worst economic slump since the Depression.
There are two important features in the bill that benefit California. One says that water developed with Federal funds is a commodity no different from food and fuel that can be bought and sold within reasonable limits to the highest bidder. Federal water now cannot be resold and, with few exceptions, can be used only for irrigation.
The other provision guarantees that enough water will be left in streams and wildlife habitat to allow restoration of fisheries and other natural areas that have deteriorated alarmingly.
The bill has formidable support in California among businessmen, fishermen, managers of urban water agencies and nearly all environmentalists and economists. It is opposed only by farmers, who use 80 percent of the state's water to produce at best 10 percent of its wealth.
The strongest argument for Mr. Bush's signature is that this is a win-win bill. It makes sense environmentally and economically. Much California land is polluted or used for crops that make money only because of Federal subsidies. The water used on such land alone would meet the needs of cities for 50 years -- time enough to discover new ways to avoid waste and stretch supplies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE GROUP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES; WESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; DROUGHT; IRRIGATION; AGRICULTURE; EDITORIALS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DROUGHT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRRIGATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); APPROVALS (79%); VETO (79%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); WATER RIGHTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); WILDLIFE (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); FISHERIES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); WILSON, PETE (GOV); BRADLEY, BILL (SEN); MILLER, GEORGE (REPR) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



438 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Unfair Shots at a Fair Tax

 BODY:
There was one point in Sunday night's debate when Ross Perot, otherwise sailing along smoothly, was buffeted by both President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton. Mr. Perot was asked about his proposal to raise gasoline taxes 50 cents a gallon over five years. He defended it, then took a double broadside.
Governor Clinton said the tax would stifle an already stagnant economy. Mr. Bush complained that it would unfairly hit certain families harder than others. These two criticisms seemed to confirm Mr. Perot's earlier fear that a responsible deficit-reduction plan would be subjected to unreasonable pot shots -- a fear that helped drive him from the Presidential race in July. 
 But his idea merits serious debate. Neither of his opponents' objections counts for much. Higher gas taxes need not threaten the economy. He proposes to delay their passage, and could, if required, phase them in slowly.
Nor are they necessarily unfair if the Perot plan is examined in its totality. Gas taxes do hit middle- and low-income families. But Mr. Perot also proposes tax hikes on the well-to-do: targeted higher income and payroll taxes and caps on deductions for mortgage interest and health-insurance premiums. Besides, research shows that the gas tax hits families up and down the income scale pretty much the same.
The debate sidestepped other essential facts. Gasoline taxes not only raise money for deficit reduction and infrastructure but also help the environment by cutting demand for fossil fuels. Families and regions that rely heavily on automobiles absorb a shock, but some discomfort is unavoidable if the United States is ever to get a grip on energy use.
Moreover, the regional impact can be mitigated. Mr. Perot suggests using some of the revenues to create jobs in heavily affected regions.
The proposal is far from perfect. Many economists wouldn't increase the gasoline tax as much or would tax oil instead. And Mr. Perot's overall program to achieve a zero deficit within five years -- of which the gasoline tax is a part -- is too much, too soon.
But those errors are remediable. Lost in the back and forth is that Mr. Perot is the only candidate to admit that Americans will have to pay steeply higher taxes if there is to be enough money in the public till to preserve essential services and investments. And he backs this honest prescription with forthright, if not ideal, options.
Presidential debates provide not only a forum for judging candidates but for illuminating important and complex issues. On the gas tax question, that opportunity was squandered .

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SALES TAX; ELECTION ISSUES; AUTOMOBILES; EDITORIALS FUEL TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GASOLINE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SALES TAX (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (66%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); JOB CREATION (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



439 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Mr. Bush Steps Aside

BYLINE: BY A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Months ago, even before the embarrassing Republican Convention, a number of important Republican politicians, thinkers and money-raisers began saying that President Bush should step aside and let some other Republican get a crack at the White House -- somebody who could win.
Usually they said it privately. But occasionally the idea was allowed to surface -- as when William Bennett wondered out loud whether Mr. Bush really wanted the job. You can't get much more blunt with a first-term President of your own party without handing him his hat on TV. 
 On Sunday night the President did step aside -- not from the race, but from the full responsibility of the Presidency. He said that if he won the election he would turn to another man, James Baker, and say here, you handle the economy for me and the country.
That statement, during the first debate, was the most startling political judgment made by a President about himself since Lyndon Johnson announced that he would not run for another term.
Politically, the Vietnam War and the way Johnson handled it had knocked him out and he knew it. Politically, the economy and the way Mr. Bush has handled it has just about knocked him out. He knows it.
But having missed his chance to step aside with dignity, he is grabbing at one last gimmick -- to turn the economy over to Mr. Baker as "coordinator" of the whole mess.
Perhaps if he had done it with candor he might have gained more respect -- if not votes. Instead of saying look, I did the best I could but I need help to get this thing off my back, he tried to be casual about it.
Asked specifically how he would get more people into good jobs immediately, he said he had already announced a plan about that, news that should send the unemployed singing into the streets.
Then, oh-by-the-way, he sashayed into his great idea: to make Mr. Baker the "coordinator of all the domestic side of the house." That means "all the economic side, all the training side, and bring this program together."
That's our house the man is talking about -- America. And here all along, the silly old American people were thinking that the biggest job they were paying a President to do was to deal with our house.
Mr. Baker never was elected to a blessed thing before Mr. Bush offered to share the Presidency with him. The plain import for voters is if you don't trust me, how about Jim and me?
Even that crafty Perot is back asking for election as President, not anointment.
If Mr. Baker is such a genius at economy handling, we did not catch much of a glimpse of it all those years he was Secretary of the Treasury and White House chief of staff.
In those jobs, did he know anything at all that might have led him to smell the savings and loan scandal that was about to befoul the country? Not one thing? Did he ever alert Presidents Reagan or Bush? Or anybody?
"Coordinate"? Mr. Baker would be the boss of the Secretary of the Treasury, the budget director, the White House economists. Mr. Bush cleared the way by informing the eminences holding those jobs that they are gone.
Joint President Baker would decide on their successors. But he could be expected to consult Mr. Bush, who would continue to be known simply as President.
And all dealing with Congress, all cabinet budgets, all decisions on military or foreign expenditure, would have to be approved by Acting President Baker. Without those powers, coordination is clerical work. Mr. Baker is nobody's clerk.
Here too Co-President Baker would likely consult Mr. Bush. Constitutionally, Mr. Bush could override the Partner President. Of course, if he did that he would be admitting that the idea of Economic President Baker is an act of desperation by a man who wants to hold onto a job he cannot handle.
All this must be quite a blow to the current official Vice President. How come Mr. Quayle was not handed this plainly intended boost to the 1996 Presidential nomination?
Bit of an insult, that. And one thing we can be sure of, Deputy President Baker would do his best to coordinate the hell out of Mr. Quayle.
So now we know. If we pull down the Republican lever, we will be voting not for Bush-Quayle but Bush-Baker, to be polite.
Now there's an October surprise for you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); VIETNAM WAR (52%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); ROSENTHAL, A M GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



440 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Vietnam Era Compatriots at Oxford

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As a Vietnam veteran I have followed the debate over the war records of Presidential and Vice-Presidential candidates with interest. News accounts tell us that Gov. Bill Clinton's uncle may have interceded with his draft board to allow him to accept a Rhodes scholarship for graduate study at Oxford University. The Bush campaign implies that if Mr. Clinton were a true patriot he would have forgone the Rhodes scholarship and volunteered for Vietnam. 
 While that line may help President Bush deflect concerns about the economy, it flies in the face of what senior military officials encouraged their own military school graduates to do throughout the Vietnam War years.
I was a cadet at the Air Force Academy between 1963 and 1967, and my remembrance is that every year a number of our top graduates competed for Rhodes scholarships. These are among the most highly regarded academic prizes for college graduates and are seen to reflect favorably on both those chosen and the schools they attended. All the service academies put forward their top graduates for consideration. The year I graduated, our top graduate (straight A's and top military ranking) received a Rhodes scholarship. He was a man characterized by high intelligence, hard work and strong character, all factors in his selection.
While many of my classmates and I went on to pilot training, followed by a tour in Vietnam, the academy's top graduate that year went to Oxford, England, avoiding Vietnam for a time. He went with the encouragement of his superior officers at the academy and the blessings of the Pentagon. It was not only an honorable choice, but was also seen as in the best interests of the country.
Through the Vietnam War years, some of the most distinguished service academy graduates avoided Vietnam by going to Oxford. Others, also top graduates, avoided Vietnam by pursuing graduate education through other programs -- medical school, economic or foreign policy studies, aeronautical engineering. Graduate study is seen as an important asset by the Pentagon, and officers are encouraged to further their education during their military careers.
So Mr. Clinton was among an elite group during his stay at Oxford, a group that included at least a few highly distinguished military academy graduates. All, by the Bush campaign's implication, were avoiding service in Vietnam and had received special dispensation to be there.
Would George Bush have chosen Vietnam over Oxford had he been of a different generation and had the kind of academic and character record that could have secured a Rhodes scholarship? We can only look to the choices made by other younger men around Mr. Bush for clues about what he might have done. It is my understanding that Vice President Quayle, Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney and Mr. Bush's own sons avoided Vietnam service in the Vietnam era.
George Bush can be proud of his own military service during World War II. But he and his campaign have no business impugning the legitimate and honorable choices made by Bill Clinton and distinguished service academy graduates during the Vietnam War era.
 
JOHN HARKEY
Nashville, Sept. 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (90%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIET NAM (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; VIETNAM WAR; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; RHODES SCHOLARSHIP; MILITARY PERSONNEL ; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY) VIETNAM WAR (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MEN (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HARKEY, JOHN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); CHENEY, DICK (SEC) BILL CLINTON (92%); DICK CHENEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



441 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Vietnam Era Compatriots at Oxford;
Divisive and Peripheral

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Following my endorsement of Gov. Bill Clinton for President, I have heard from a lot of people, both supportive and otherwise. I even heard from a Republican questioning if it was appropriate for retired military officers to be involved in politics. I replied that he obviously hadn't heard about Dwight Eisenhower or Alexander Haig. 
 The questions center mostly on my reasons for backing the Governor.
My decision marks the first time in my life that I endorsed a political candidate. I did it after considerable soul-searching and strictly as a private citizen. I believe the stakes in this election are considerable, both for the security of this nation and for international stability. This campaign is about change -- how we shake off the inertia of cold-war habits and meet the challenges of a vastly different world. I believe Governor Clinton is the most qualified man to set us on a successful course.
I was honored to serve both Presidents Reagan and Bush as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. I was particularly indebted to President Bush for his kindness in asking me to extend my tenure as chairman. My endorsement of Governor Clinton is in no way meant to denigrate the substantial accomplishments of these two Presidents in national security affairs. America owes a great debt of gratitude to the steadfastness of purpose of the Reagan Administration in dealing with the Soviets. I am convinced that it was a major factor in the demise of the Soviet Union.
Similarly, the Bush Administration deserves great credit for organizing the allied coalition against Iraq, which eventually forced Saddam Hussein's troops out of Kuwait.
But America needs new leadership, which will imaginatively and boldly address the problems facing our citizens and threatening our prosperity. There is no doubt in my mind that our national security depends, first, on our domestic strength -- a strong economy, a stable industrial base, social unity and educational excellence. The Administration has been slow to recognize this and is having difficulty adjusting to the new realities. Governor Clinton's approaches to these issues make sense to me.
Inordinate attention has been paid in this campaign to Governor Clinton's lack of military service. I served in uniform for 47 years, and I treasure my association with the young men and women who served their country in the armed services. They inspired me every day.
As a Vietnam veteran, I was particularly proud of my comrades in that conflict. But I know many others who didn't serve in uniform, including key national security figures in the Bush Administration. That fact never affected my ability to work with them or my high regard for them.
The important thing is that divisive and peripheral issues not be allowed to detract attention from the fundamental concerns that beset our citizens today or threaten the nation's unity. We are all Americans, and I strongly object to any political campaign based on a policy of exclusion.
As an American citizen who served his country for more than four decades, I believe that I have earned the right to express my opinion on this election.
 
WILLIAM J. CROWE JR.
Washington, Sept. 29, 1992

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; ENDORSEMENTS; VIETNAM WAR; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY) US PRESIDENTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); 

PERSON: CROWE, WILLIAM J JR (ADM) (RET); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (95%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



442 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Both Czechs and Slovaks Must Rebuild

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Henry Brandon, asking "Who Split Czechoslovakia?" (Op-Ed, Sept. 24) apportions the blame judiciously among Vladimir Meciar, Prime Minister of Slovakia; Vaclav Klaus, his Czech counterpart, and Vaclav Havel, former Czechoslovak President. But he fails to note that the greatest share of the blame belongs to the Communist regime, which for 42 years discredited the state to its citizens and disrupted its social and moral texture, leaving it vulnerable to the passions of the moment. 
 Our task now, Slovak and Czech alike, is to rebuild the economic and cultural foundations of our shared community, so that in four years, when it is time to turn out the rascals, we can build our country anew on a sounder foundation of equality, mutual respect and mutual affection. Mr. Havel can play a major role -- if he has the courage to refuse to identify with the unfortunate split as the figurehead Czech president and to take the role of spiritual guardian of our common heritage, for which he is far better suited than the presidency.
And contrary to Mr. Brandon's belief, Charter 77 was a loose gathering of Czech and Slovak dissidents under the Communist regime. The two separate movements that emerged after the fall of that regime were the Civic Forum in the Czech lands and Public Against Violence in Slovakia. Both were defeated in their respective lands, failing to win enough votes to enter the Parliament in the second election. It is unlikely that uniting them could have safeguarded the unity of our country.
 
ERAZIM KOHAK
Boston, Sept. 24, 1992
The writer is a professor of philosophy at Charles University, Prague, and at Boston University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (97%); SLOVAKIA (97%); UNITED STATES (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA; SLOVAKIA (CZECHOSLOVAKIA) CZECH REPUBLIC (97%); SLOVAKIA (97%); UNITED STATES (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (65%); PHILOSOPHY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (59%); 

PERSON: KOHAK, ERAZIM VACLAV KLAUS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



443 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Week;
Clinton Basks in Glow Of Easy Lead in Race

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KELLY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 12

 BODY:
In readying their candidate to debate George Bush, the advisers to Bill Clinton prepared for the worst. In mock debate sessions that lasted hours, the men playing the President and the panelists hit the Democratic candidate with hard and sometimes brutal questions about his draft record, his marriage, his honesty and his patriotism.
But the debate, when it at last arrived, turned out to be a relatively polite affair, and very easy on Mr. Clinton, thanks in large degree to its tricornered nature. 
 The presence of the independent candidate Ross Perot on the stage created a dynamic that worked to Mr. Clinton's profound advantage, allowing him to appear calm and secure in contrast to the folksy comic on his right and the man in the defense dock on his left.
Mr. Perot, with his hands clasped behind his back and his chest puffed out like a pouter pigeon's, played a role that was a sort of Will Rogers-Mr. Deeds hybrid. At his best lines, and there were many, the audience laughed out loud, and even cheered a bit.
Mr. Bush played a far less attractive part, that of the misunderstood man. With both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Perot taking shots at him, the President spent much of the debate playing variations on the theme that things were not as bad as they seemed. He drew mostly modest applause, and on several occasions actually finished speaking to a dead silence, a surprising thing given that a quarter of the people in the hall were friends, family and selected Republican guests.
With Mr. Bush (who has always preferred that surrogates handle the back-alley stuff) being relatively polite on the attack, and with Mr. Perot uninterested in criticizing Mr. Clinton (who is, by the Levantine ways of politics, a kind of friend, being the enemy of his enemy Mr. Bush), the Democrat had only a modest threshold to reach. He had to appear attractive, sane and sober, and to articulate the message of change most people in the audience seemed to want to believe before he opened his mouth.
The snapshot of the debate provides a snapshot of the race. Mr. Perot is newly hot, but in a way that is probably ephemeral and certainly limited. Mr. Bush is struggling to tread in place. And Mr. Clinton has settled into the comfortable lope of the presumptive winner, basking in the aurora of victory's anticipation.
The difference between the position Mr. Clinton finds himself in and that of Mr. Bush was clear in what the people of two poor neighborhoods here had to say when the Democrat came through.
The mostly poor, mostly black neighborhood of West Philadelphia is not promising territory for a Presidential candidate, a place of few jobs, much poverty and rampant crime. West 52d Street, the main shopping strip, had been swept and hosed down for the occasion of Mr. Clinton's five-block walk -- the first time it had been thoroughly cleaned within memory, residents said -- but the thin sheen of water wasn't really much of a make-over. Along the rope lines, Mr. Clinton found several hundred people waiting. They hollered praise at the candidate for his debate performance, and pleas for attention to their blighted neighborhood.
Benjamin Edwards, a 52-year-old unemployed dishwasher, took a bus from Germantown, about 15 miles away, to see Mr. Clinton.
The night before Mr. Edwards had a debate party in his house. Neighbors brought over televisions and lamps, and ran extension cords from a nearby apartment (Mr. Edwards's electricity has been shut off, along with his gas), and about 100 people watched.
"He looked good to me, very good," Mr. Edwards said. "Been since John F. Kennedy I voted for a President, but I'll vote for this one. My faith is in this man. My faith is not in George Bush. George Bush? That man doesn't care if we starve in the street. He's the rich man's President. Here people sleeping in the streets, sleeping in abandoned houses, no food -- nobody in my family eat a piece of steak since I don't know when; it's all pigs feet and black-eyed beans, rice for breakfast -- no jobs, streets ain't safe at 7 o'clock at night."
When Mr. Clinton came to Mr. Edwards in line, Mr. Edwards grabbed his hand. "You get that George Bush out of there," he said, "I need a job."
"I will, I will," Mr. Clinton said.
South Philadelphia, where Italian families of generations' standing live in small, neat brick houses, and where most of the voters went for Mr. Bush in 1988, and for Ronald Reagan in the two preceding races, is solidly working class. But the people there say they are hurting just as much as those in West Philadelphia.
"I voted for Reagan twice, and I feel like I was conned," said 32-year-old Victor Morrone, who runs a loading dock and who says he will vote for Mr. Clinton no matter what his flaws, and no matter what Mr. Bush says.
"Look at the way we live," he said. "Crime up, jobs down, taxes through the ceiling, city's going bankrupt. After I pay my bills, I wind up with $20 pocket money for two weeks, and that's disgusting."
If Mr. Bush came to visit, Mr. Morrone said, the people of South Philadelphia would boo him. If he came to West Philadelphia, Mr. Edwards said, "I wouldn't even like to be here."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 1992, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
The Political Week column yesterday, about Gov. Bill Clinton's campaign in the aftermath of the Presidential debate on Sunday night, referred to a Philadephia neighborhood incorrectly in some copies. The mostly poor, mostly black area he visited on Monday was in West Philadelphia; he also visited another neighborhood, South Philadelphia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (84%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (84%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILADELPHIA (PA); PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (84%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (84%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (84%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; KELLY, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



444 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Law Expected to Squeeze Refiners

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
For years refiners have worried about how much they pay for the crude oil they buy, how much they can get for the products they sell and whether the difference between the two leaves them a profit. But their lives are about to become substantially more complicated, because of new laws that force changes in the composition of oil products.
The first of new rules under the Clean Air Act of 1990 takes effect next month on gasoline supplied in winter to nine of the metropolitan areas with the most polluted air. More rules, still being drafted, are to follow. The issue for most refineries now is what recipe the law will impose and whether the capital investment needed to make this gasoline is likely to be recouped through higher prices. 
 For some refineries, the answer is already a clear no. According to Kenneth T. Derr, the chairman and chief executive of the nation's largest refiner, the Chevron Corporation, the depression that hit the oil exploration and production business in the 1980's, when 250,000 jobs were lost, is about to hit the refining end.
 
 
'Ultimately Banish It'
 "No question about it, the oil refinery is becoming an endangered species," he said in a speech Thursday to business leaders in Philadelphia. New regulations, he said, will not only rearrange his industry but will also "stop it, shrink it, and ultimately banish it from American soil." His company cut production at its refinery in Port Arthur, Tex., by one-third last year.
On the other hand, for survivors life could be sweet, according to Robert Hermes, president of Purvin Gertz, a Houston-based consulting firm. "It depends on who you are," he said.
All companies are going to be hit with huge capital costs; some estimates run to $50 billion for the industry in this decade. That would come, on average, to more than $3,000 per barrel of daily refining capacity. For older refineries the cost will be still higher. "If you're a weak company and cannot afford the capital required, it's a bad time," Mr. Hermes said. "If you're a strong company, it's a good time to be in it." The reason, he said, is that as refining capacity disappears, prices for refined products will rise.
But the initial effect of the new rules is the opposite; the supply of gasoline is growing. The reason is that the rules that take effect in November will require that fuel sold in the nine metropolitan areas -- Hartford, New York, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Houston, Chicago, Milwaukee, Los Angeles and San Diego -- have an oxygen content of 2.7 percent. More oxygen in the fuel means car engines will produce less carbon monoxide.
 
 
Adding a Molecule
 The most common way to meet the oxygen requirement is to add a fuel molecule called methyl tertiary butyl ether, commonly called MTBE. Others will add ethanol, or a related compound, ethyl tertiary butyl ether, or ETBE.
To reach 2.7 percent, the gasoline must be 15 percent MTBE by volume. The effect is as if a butcher were ordered to put sawdust in the sausage; the same amount of meat now yields 15 percent more product. So the refineries are faced with the prospect of oversupply or excess capacity.
John H. Lichtblau of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation said that the nine cities specified in the Clean Air Act constituted nearly 25 percent of gasoline consumption. That implies a nationwide growth in wintertime production capacity of 3.75 percent, at a time when demand is depressed by economic conditions. The actual effect is somewhat smaller, because the oxygenate is only required in the winter and can be produced in the summer and stockpiled.
Still, supply is growing. At Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, a stock brokerage firm, James F. Hickman, a research associate, said capacity was growing faster than demand and refining profit margins would be pushed down, even for the most advanced refineries. Adding oxygenates and making other changes now under discussion could add 25 cents to the cost of a gallon of gasoline, refiners say, although experience is that price increases, at least in the short term, do not relate to costs but to what the market will bear.
The oversupply could get worse, because the Clean Air Act gives the states the authority to "opt in," or voluntarily put themselves under the oxygenate rules. Mr. Lichtblau estimated that by the end of the decade, half to two-thirds of the supply would have to be oxygenated, implying still more growth. Opting in, Mr. Lichtblau said, is "politically correct, environmentally correct, saying that the strictest standards are the best ones for the population in my area."
 
 
Cost-Effectiveness Cited
 State pollution officials put it differently, saying that reformulation of gasoline is one of the most cost-effective ways to come into compliance, or stay in compliance, with air pollution standards.
When refineries start losing money, some will close. Others will be reluctant, however, because doing so incurs severance liabilities to personnel. Owners that close refineries may also incur environmental liabilities, because soil polluted over decades may then have to be cleaned up.
And there is no indication where the trend to tighter regulation will end. "You will see no new capacity put in the United States," said J. Robinson West, president of the Petroleum Finance Company, , a consulting firm in Washington, "and certainly the marginal operations will be shaken out. The question is whether those facilities that are upgraded and survive will then operate at high margins or whether there will be increased regulations and they will never be profitable. There's absolutely nothing to say that this is the last round."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 1992, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about new rules for the composition of gasoline understated the number of places that must include oxygen in fuel beginning this winter. It is 39 metropolitan areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CLEAN AIR ACT OF 1990; AIR POLLUTION US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); GASOLINE (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); AIR POLLUTION (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CITIES (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); CARBON MONOXIDE (70%); LAYOFFS (67%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992



445 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1909 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Debate;
Quayle and Gore Exchange Sharp Attacks in Debate

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
In a debate marked by intensely personal exchanges, Senator Al Gore and Vice President Dan Quayle delivered some of the campaign's strongest blasts last night, each asserting that the opposing Presidential candidate did not deserve to lead the nation for the next four years.
Mr. Quayle assailed Gov. Bill Clinton, the Democratic Presidential candidate, as a man who "has trouble telling the truth" and who had habitually waffled on the issues of the day. 
 Mr. Gore accused the Bush Administration of presiding over a brutal recession, blind to the suffering that it caused and unwilling to abandon the "trickle down" economic policies of the past 12 years.
James B. Stockdale, the retired vice admiral and political novice who is running with the independent candidate Ross Perot, at times seemed stunned by the sharpness of the exchange and struggled to keep pace. But he tried to reach for Mr. Perot's apolitical appeal, describing the debate as emblematic of the "gridlock" in Washington. [Excerpts, pages A20-A21.]
 
Remarkable Aggression
 From the beginning, the debate at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta was remarkably aggressive, occasionally raucous and far more free-wheeling than the Sunday night confrontation among the Presidential contenders. However, the format of last night's encounter allowed the looser, one-on-one exchanges between the candidates, while the debate on Sunday night did not.
The contest between Mr. Gore and Mr. Quayle looked like a battle between two seasoned professionals. And the absence of major, readily apparent gaffes by either probably assured that neither Mr. Quayle nor Mr. Gore will be considered a drag on the ticket. In contrast, Mr. Stockdale's tentative performance will probably not be seen as a plus for Mr. Perot, who was widely considered to have gained from Sunday night's debate.
Mr. Quayle repeatedly cast Mr. Clinton as a man who lacked the character and trustworthiness to be President, reiterating the Republican assertion that Mr. Clinton had given ever-changing accounts of how he avoided military service in the Vietnam War. More than once in the 90-minute confrontation, Mr. Quayle accused Mr. Gore of "pulling a Clinton" by straddling one issue or another.
 
Probing a Vulnerability
 Mr. Quayle used his closing remarks to probe that vulnerability, noting Mr. Gore had never directly responded to the attacks on Mr. Clinton's fitness to be President. Indeed, Mr. Gore did not mount a direct defense of Mr. Clinton's credibility, instead using his time to argue that the Democratic nominee had superior programs and cared more deeply for the welfare of the country.
In contrast, Mr. Gore asserted, a second Bush Administration would mean another four years of failed Republican economic policies. He asserted that the Bush Administration had responded to the recession like "a deer caught in the headlights." And Mr. Gore scoffed at Administration officials for promising that in a second Administration Mr. Bush would "target America."
 
Overshadowed Candidate
 Mr. Stockdale, who entered the debate as a political unknown, acknowledged as much in his opening remarks. "Who am I?" he began. "Why am I here?" But Mr. Stockdale often slipped into the background, overshadowed as his rivals attacked each other and, more often, the tops of their tickets. At times Hal Bruno, the political director of ABC News who moderated last night's debate, had to encourage Mr. Stockdale to join in the fray.
The digs were sometimes subtle. Mr. Gore, in an apparent attempt to rattle Mr. Quayle, reminded the national television audience of Mr. Quayle's lackluster performance in the 1988 debate against Senator Lloyd Bentsen, when Mr. Quayle compared himself to John F. Kennedy and Mr. Bentsen shot back, "You're no Jack Kennedy."
Mr. Gore said to Mr. Quayle, "I'll make you a deal this evening; if you don't try to compare George Bush to Harry Truman, I won't compare you to Jack Kennedy."
But Mr. Quayle, who was widely seen as trying to redeem himself from that debate and position himself for 1996, stayed on the offensive. And both men regularly interrupted each other with putdowns and gibes. At one point, Mr. Quayle tried to cut off Mr. Gore by declaring: "Take a breath, Al. Inhale."
Some of the sharpest policy exchanges came, not surprisingly, on the economy, taxes, and the environment. Mr. Quayle continued the Republican effort to cast the Democratic ticket as one that will inevitably mean higher taxes: "Bill Clinton's economic plan and his agenda will make things much, much worse," he said. "He will raise your taxes, he will increase spending, he will make Government bigger, jobs will be lost."
And to Mr. Quayle's delight, Mr. Stockdale strongly criticized Mr. Gore's environmental proposals, saying that he wondered how they could be financed in the current economic climate.
 
Finding Common Ground
 Afterward, as the candidates shook hands, signed autographs and accepted congratulations from their families, Mr. Gore and Mr. Quayle found some common ground: each declared the debate an unusually substantive exchange of views on important issue.
Each man also declared that he had kept the other pinned to the ropes.
Bush campaign officials, who were confronted with polls after Sunday night's debate indicating the President still lagged well behind Mr. Clinton, said they were pleased with Mr. Quayle's performance. The Vice President and his allies clearly believed he had made strides toward new political respectability.
"I think the Vice President did a lot of damage to Bill Clinton tonight, particularly in the way he distinguished our economic plan from theirs," said Robert M. Teeter, campaign chairman for Mr. Bush.
George Stephanopoulos, deputy manager of the Clinton campaign, dismissed the effectiveness of Mr. Quayle's attacks on the Democratic nominee's trustworthiness. "I think people consider the messenger when they watch TV, and I don't think they take much of what Dan Quayle says seriously," he said.
The themes of the campaigners were apparent from the start. Mr. Quayle warned that "at some time during the next four years there will be a crisis." Highlighting the question that Bush strategists hope will sway voters their way in these final days, Mr. Quayle said, "You need to have a President you can trust: can you really trust Bill Clinton?"
Mr. Gore, for his part, underscored the need for change, for an administration that focused on domestic needs in health, education and employment.
And Mr. Stockdale seemed to be trying to introduce himself to the American people, focusing on his personal saga -- 37 years in the Navy, 10 years in Vietnam, 7 of them as a prisoner of war. "The centerpiece of my life is Vietnam," he said.
His years of imprisonment by the North Vietnamese, he said, were the "beginning of wisdom," an experience that taught him "how American governments can be courageous and how they can be callow."
Still, despite his occasional moments of rough eloquence, Mr. Stockdale was clearly less at ease than his rivals.
 
Economic Proposals
 The economy, not surprisingly, dominated much of this debate, with the Bush record on employment under consistent attack. Mr. Gore said that Governor Clinton's "top priority is putting Americans back to work" through investing in infrastructure, training and tax incentives for creating jobs.
In contrast, Mr. Gore asserted, the Bush Administration was "using our tax dollars to subsidize the recruitment of U.S. companies to move overseas and throw Americans out of work."
Mr. Quayle dismissed the contention, countering that the Democrats would laden American workers with $150 billion in new taxes. Mr. Gore shot back by saying, "You can say it all you want but it doesn't make it true."
 
Military and the Cold War
 Turning to military spending, Mr. Gore said that since the end of the cold war, "the definition of a strong national defense has changed." He called for reducing troop deployments in Europe and applying military spending to civil programs.
Mr. Quayle retorted, "We won the cold war because we invested in national security," and said cuts in military spending would cost jobs in California and elsewhere. Like Mr. Bush, he tried to cast the collapse of communism as a Republican triumph, which Mr. Gore quickly rebutted.
Mr. Gore said the "we" who won the cold war "was the people of the United States of America. This wasn't a partisan effort that started a few weeks after you took office."
On the environment, both Mr. Quayle and Mr. Stockdale criticized Mr. Gore's advocacy of a range of new environmental policies, articulated in his book, "Earth in the Balance." Mr. Quayle contended that the Democrats were blind to their proposals' impact on jobs, in the automobile, coal and timber industries.
Mr. Stockdale joined in that attack, saying: "I read Mr. Gore's book, and I don't see how he could possibly pay for his proposals. I love this planet, but I don't want it to be the private property of fanatics" who would press environmental regulation too hard.
Mr. Gore defended strong protection of the environment as a potential spur for the economy, creating new jobs and new technologies. "We cannot stick our heads in the sand and pretend that we do not face a global environmental crisis," he said.
 
Stances on Abortion
 Mr. Gore tried hard to sharpen the differences between the parties on the issue of abortion. "Bill Clinton and I support the right of a woman to choose," he said, and repeatedly challenged the Vice President to make a similar statement.
Mr. Quayle, by contrast, said he was "pro-life," although he did not call attention to the Republican Party platform, which calls for a constitutional ban on abortion.
For his part, Mr. Stockdale stated flatly, "I believe a woman owns her own body and what she does with it is her own business, period."
In a subsequent exchange, Mr. Gore accused the Vice President of trying to hide his support for a constitutional ban on abortion. "You want to waffle around," he said.
Mr. Quayle replied by contending that Mr. Gore had changed his position on Government financing for abortion. "Talk about waffling around!" he said.
A question about how each ticket would control health-care costs produced a testy exchange.
Mr. Gore criticized the Bush Administration for failing to introduce a health plan in Congress. Mr. Quayle replied that Mr. Clinton had opposed limiting malpractice suits, asserting the Democrat was obligated to the trial lawyers in the country. Without such limits, the Vice President contended, controlling medical costs is difficult.
 
Questions on Urban Aid

On aid to the cities, Mr. Quayle said that the Administration endorsed the establishment of enterprise zones and that Democrats in Congress were reluctant to approve of such action. In fact, the Democratic-controlled Congress passed a $27 billion tax package that included such zones, but the White House has said Mr. Bush will veto the measure because it includes what he calls unacceptable tax increases.
Mr. Quayle also said that the "breakdown of the American family" was behind urban decay.
Reminding the audience once again of the Administration's veto of family leave legislation, Mr. Gore said, "If you don't support parents and you don't support children, how can you say you support families?" he asked.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vice President Dan Quayle and Senator Al Gore during the debate last night in Atlanta (CNN) (pg. A1); Vice President Dan Quayle, left, making a point with Senator Al Gore, right, as James B. Stockdale listened during the Vice-Presidential debate last night in Atlanta. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. A18)
 
Chart: "Debates on the Air" -- Live coverage of the 90-minute debates will be provicded on television by ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, C-Span, CNN and PBS, and in the New York City area by radio stations WCBS-AM, WINS and WNYC. Times are Eastern.
 
 
PRESIDENTIAL: Thursday, Oct. 15
The debate will begin at 7 P.M. if there is a seventh game in the American League playoffs.
 
 
PRESIDENTIAL: Monday, Oct. 19
East Lansing, Mich., 7 P.M. (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES; TELEVISION; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (61%); 

PERSON: GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); STOCKDALE, JAMES BOND; TONER, ROBIN AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



446 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
SHUNNING 'GREATER SERBIA'
The euphoria many Serbs felt when a swath of territory was carved out in their name in Croatia has evaporated. As lawlessness and hardships deepen, thousands of Serbs are leaving Serbian-controlled Croatia. A1
 
COMBAT PLANES TO U.N. FIELDS
Responding to a United Nations ban on combat flights over Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnian Serbs agreed to send their military jets to airfields under U.N. supervision. A10
Washington is said to oppose a plan to shelter Bosnian refugees. A10
 
QUAKE TOLL RISES IN CAIRO
Salvage workers shouted orders and families camped in cars as Cairo began to dig its way out from an earthquake. Egyptian officials estimated that 450 people had been killed and 4,000 hurt. A14
Half the 450 who died seem to have been panicked children. A14
 
INDIA'S HARRIED RIGHTS GROUP
As reports of abuses by India's army and police spill forth, the Government is stepping up pressure on the South Asia Human Rights Documentation Center. Recently it told the group it wanted to review all its financial records. A3
 
U.N. AGAIN WARNS KHMER ROUGE
The United Nations Security Council threatened to press ahead with elections in Cambodia without the Khmer Rouge unless their fighters cooperate with a peace plan they have accepted. A6
 
ROMANIAN TO BRAKE REFORM
Ion Iliescu, the former Communist who was re-elected President of Romania, pledged to keep the country's economic reform on course -- but at a reduced pace. A6
 
U.N. SEEKS TO CALM ANGOLA
Alarmed by hints that Angola's main opposition group may renew the civil war, a United Nations delegation warned that the world would condemn any fighting. A8
 
POLITICS FOLLOWS THE POPE
Care has been taken to keep the Pope from wading into the quagmire surrounding the celebration of Columbus's landing. But on almost every step of his visit to the Dominican Republic, politics follows him. A15
 
ITALIANS PROTEST AUSTERITY PLAN
Millions of workers marched in cities throughout Italy to protest a Government austerity plan that includes spending cuts, tax increases and abolition of wage indexing. A5
Rome Journal: Itinerants with Eastern European accents. A4
 
Court rules Gorbachev can leave Russia for Brandt's funeral. A7
Kuwait's Emir defiantly reappoints his heir as Prime Minister. A12
 
National A16-23
 
THE UNDERSTUDIES CLASH
Vice President Quayle, Senator Gore and James Stockdale engaged in their only debate, which frequently turned fiery. A1
 
QUAYLE ON THE OFFENSIVE
News analysis: Vice President Quayle stated the Republican case at the debate more succinctly than President Bush did on Sunday. A1
Excerpts from the debate. A20-21
The scene around the debate at Georgia Tech. A19
Four crucial issues divided the candidates. A19
 
BUSH RENEWS HIS ATTACK
Making an unscheduled appearance on the "Today" program, the President again assailed Bill Clinton's antiwar activities during the Vietnam era. A22
Perot is preparing a new TV advertising blitz. A22
The phantom campaign of a Kentucky Congressman. A22
 
INQUIRY ON F.B.I. CHIEF GROWS
The Justice Department's ethics review of the F.B.I. Director's travel practices has escalated into a preliminary criminal inquiry, Administration officials said. The timing of that inquiry led the Senate Intelligence chairman to wonder if "an attempt is being made to pressure him not to conduct an independent investigation" into whether the Justice Department or the C.I.A. misled a Federal judge about how much the Government knew of a multibillion-dollar fraud involving Iraq. A1
 
NO SPECIAL INSLAW PROSECUTOR
The Attorney General turned down the House Judiciary Committee's request that he appoint an independent prosecutor to investigate whether Justice Department officials stole a computer company's software program to benefit their friends. A23
 
SCIENCE AND JUSTICE
Opening the door to a far-reaching debate over the role of science in the courtroom, the Supreme Court agreed to decide how widely accepted a scientific process or theory must be for it to be admissible as evidence in Federal trials. A16
The Court declined to take up the flag-desecration issue again. A16
 
The recipient of a pig's liver died at a Los Angeles hospital. A16
Denied full payment, a funeral home dumped a corpse's body.A16
A pregnant homecoming candidate is denied a crown. A17
 
Education Page B9
Why do Hispanic students drop out at a higher rate than other groups?
In Pennsylvania, state budget cuts hurt 11 health-related colleges.
Campus Journal: Students learn they are not shielded from AIDS.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
CANDIDATES STILL SLINGING
Robert Abrams said that when he called Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato a "fascist," he had really meant to call him a "right-wing extremist." In either case, he did not back down. He responded as if he might have found a way, after nearly a month in which his opponent controlled the campaign with attacks, to make Mr. D'Amato's tactics an issue. A1
 
LIBERTY VS. CURING TB
As tuberculosis returns to a prominence unseen in the United States for decades, public health officials, politicians, ethicists and advocates for the poor find themselves revisiting a problem some find as disturbing as the medical facts of the disease itself: protecting healthy members of society from those who are not. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-12
Mapping out ethnic foods, freeway by freeway. C1
At work with Donny Deutsch: Portrait of adman on a hot streak. C1
U.S. approves chicken treatment to cut salmonella. C1
 
Health Page C14
 
Arts/Entertainment C17-24
 
Sports B11-17
Baseball: Pirates force a seventh game. B11
Football: Giants rely on rookies. B11
Hockey: Lindros faces off in Quebec. B11
 
Obituaries B10
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
Editorials
A war of slogans.
No excuse for Mr. Barr's outrage.
The woolly bear weathermen.
Topics: Mr. Abrams gets surly.
Letters
Anna Quindlen: Oh say, can you say?
Henry M. Rowan: Left holding the bag in Iraq.
Robert S. McNamara: One minute to doomsday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); CROATIA (94%); INDIA (92%); ROMANIA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); EGYPT (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); ITALY (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); ROME, GA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); CROATIA (94%); INDIA (92%); ROMANIA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); EGYPT (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); ITALY (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); GEORGIA, USA (78%); CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); ROME, GA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); POLITICS (87%); CIVIL WAR (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); ARMIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); FAMILY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); TAX LAW (60%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



447 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: News Analysis;
Quayle on the Offensive

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

 BODY:
Vice President Dan Quayle may be no Jack Kennedy, but he was no stumblebum either in the second of the 1992 campaign debates last night.
In fact, he gave a far better-focused summary of the Republican case than his boss, President Bush, managed in his first encounter with Bill Clinton on Sunday night. Right at the start, Mr. Quayle asserted that Mr. Clinton would make a bad economy worse and charged that Mr. Clinton "does not have the strength or the character to be President." His words were as crisp as a television commercial. 
 Senator Al Gore, the Democratic Vice Presidential nominee, held his own in the substantive aspects of the debate, providing real-life examples to undergird many of his points. He also seemed more Presidential than Mr. Quayle, who often resorted to flippant asides, telling Mr. Gore at one point, "Take a breath, Al. Inhale." Several times the Vice President dropped into an stagy, melodramatic voice.
 
Compared With Expectations
 But Mr. Gore, who has been counted an asset to the Democrats from the moment he was chosen, had been expected to do well. Mr. Quayle has been considered a liability for four years, and many Republicans sought his removal from this year's ticket. So the Vice President had little to lose and everything to gain in the debate.
Nothing that took place is likely to change the minds of tens of thousands of voters. There were no pratfalls, no decisive blows.
Even if there had been, it is far from certain that they would have affected the outcome of the race, because most voting decisions give little weight to the merits of the Vice Presidential candidates, according to political scientists' research. Four years ago, Mr. Quayle was widely adjudged a weak nominee and the loser of his debate with Senator Lloyd M. Bentsen, but the Bush-Quayle ticket won, even carrying Mr. Bentsen's home state, Texas, by a substantial margin.
Mr. Quayle never forgot what his mission was tonight: to attack and undermine the credibility of Bill Clinton. He kept at it for 90 minutes, repeatedly depicting the Arkansas Governor as a waffler.
Unlike Mr. Bush -- who keeps saying the economy is not as bad as it looks and who hurts his credibility, according to the polls, every time he does so -- Mr. Quayle conceded that "it is a bad economy" and then turned, again and again, to attack Mr. Clinton's tax plans, his trustworthiness and his consistency.
The basic strategic problem of the Bush-Quayle campaign has been its inability to get peoples' minds off the economy, the issue that has totally dominated the last nine months. The Vice President may not have succeeded either, but he made a far more concerted effort than his party has been able to mount since its Houston convention.
If he seemed unnecessarily quarrelsome, wrangling with Senator Gore about voting records and the terms of debate, at least he took the fight to the Democrats, which is something that Mr. Bush, with his curious lapses into passivity, has found hard to do lately. It is also something that underdogs have to do, especially when they are as far behind as the Bush-Quayle ticket, and time is so short.
Mr. Gore, as seamlessly fluent as his running-mate, was nonetheless thrust onto the defensive by the Vice President's aggressive tactics, which disrupted his attempts to deride what he called the "trickle-down economics" of the Bush Administration.
 
Point Quayle Conceded
 But he scored major points of his own, forcing Mr. Quayle to concede, for example, that Mr. Bush had a commitment from Russia to destroy SS-18 missiles but not the agreement the President had claimed on Sunday. Stammering, Mr. Quayle then tried to change the subject.
The exchanges were much more specific and substantive than most of those in the first Presidential debate. When the discussion turned to family leave legislation, there was detailed discussion of the provisions of the rival Republican and Democratic proposals. But once again, the economic proposals of the three tickets got less attention than they seem to merit, given the shape of the campaign.
Making his debut on national television, Vice Admiral James B. Stockdale, who is Ross Perot's running-mate, said relatively little. "I'm out of ammunition on this," he said during a discussion of health care, and he stumbled often when he spoke. He exuded a certain patriarchal integrity, but he seemed uncomfortable with the rough-and-tumble debating that was permitted under last night's looser format, though he turned that to his own advantage at one point.
As the Republican and the Democrat wrangled about the economy, Admiral Stockdale commented, "I think that America is seeing right now the reason this nation is in gridlock. The trickle-downs and the tax-and-spends, or whatever you want to call them, are at swords' points; you can't get this economy going."
On Sunday night, Mr. Perot attacked Mr. Bush on major issues, making it hard for the President to marshal his arguments. But Admiral Stockdale's presence seemed to cut the other way.On the environment and other issues, he sided with Mr. Quayle, leaving Mr. Gore outnumbered and outflanked.
Mr. Perot's snappy one-liners set off a mini-boom for his independent candidacy, which has struggled to recover from the disillusionment he engendered by pulling out of the race in July. But it is questionable whether Admiral Stockdale's performance, however charming, had the vigor needed to convince the electorate that he could manage the Presidency. If not, Mr. Perot may find it very difficult to carry his new-found momentum forward in the next 21 days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; TELEVISION; ELECTION ISSUES; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); STOCKDALE, JAMES BOND; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); APPLE, R W JR BILL CLINTON (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



448 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: U.N. GIVES WARNING TO KHMER ROUGE

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 13

 BODY:
In a fresh show of impatience with the Khmer Rouge, the Security Council threatened today to press ahead with elections in Cambodia without the guerrilla faction unless it cooperates with a peace plan it has already accepted.
The threat came in a new Council resolution reaffirming that Cambodia's first free election will take place as planned in May and demanding that the Khmer Rouge immediately carry out their obligations under the Paris Peace Agreements of 1991. The agreements call on the Khmer Rouge to disarm their soldiers and admit United Nations officials to areas the Khmer Rouge controls so the officials can start registering voters and preparing for the election. 
 The resolution was adopted unanimously by all 15 Council members including China, which at the height of the Cambodian civil war was the Khmer Rouge's main backer. The vote today follows a warning late last month by the United States and the four other permanent Council members: Britain, France, Russia and China.
The new resolution encourages Thailand and Japan together with the co-chairmen of the Paris Peace Conference, France and Indonesia, to continue their diplomatic efforts to persuade the Khmer Rouge to cooperate with the peace plan the group has accepted.
It asks Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to report on Khmer Rouge compliance by Nov. 15 and warns that if the group remains in violation of its obligations, the Council will consider "what further steps are necessary and appropriate" to carry out the agreement.
This, diplomats here say, implies not only a decision to hold the elections without the Khmer Rouge but also the possibility of imposing an economic embargo on the 15 per cent of the country the group controls by closing the border with neighboring Thailand.
 
A Risky Decision
 Such a decision would be risky, experts on the region admit, because when the United Nations finally pulls out the 15,000 peacekeeping soldiers now in Cambodia it would be leaving behind a heavily armed Khmer Rouge force facing a new government in Phnom Penh.
Delaying elections or revoking the peace plan would involve an unacceptable loss of face for the United Nations, which has virtually taken over the administration of the country.
"The United States sincerely hopes that the Party of Democratic Kampuchea will recognize that it has nothing to gain and much to lose by continuing to obstruct the peace process," Alexander F. Watson, the acting representative of the United States, said after the vote, referring to the Khmer Rouge by the formal name.
"At the same time, we must all be prepared to consider and adopt the measures necessary to insure a stable new national government and the peace that the Cambodian people deserve, with or without the participation of the Khmer Rouge," he added.
Up to a million Cambodians are believed to have died from starvation, disease or through summary execution when the Khmer Rouge ruled the country between 1975 and 1978 under their leader, Pol Pot, before the Vietnamese Army drove him from power.
 
Who Leads Khmer Rouge?
 Since then, the Khmer Rouge have appointed a new leadership, and Pol Pot and his associates are said to have "retired," although most Asia experts here say they believe these leaders still pull the strings from a hideaway in the Cambodian jungle.
No one knows for sure why the Khmer Rouge first agreed to go along with the Paris peace agreement and then reneged. Some diplomats say Pol Pot calculated that once the United Nations pulled out, the Cambodian people would quickly become disillusioned with the government the elections brought to power and the country would fall into his hands.
Others say the Khmer Rouge are afraid of cooperating because their small numbers would be revealed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); THAILAND (92%); CHINA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA CAMBODIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); THAILAND (92%); CHINA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JAPAN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE PEACE PROCESS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); STARVATION (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL BOUTROS BOUTROS-GHALI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



449 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 7582 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Excerpts From the Debate Among Quayle, Gore and Stockdale

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Vice-Presidential debate in Atlanta last night between Vice President Dan Quayle, Senator Al Gore and James B. Stockdale, as transcribed by The New York Times: 
 
 
Opening Statements
 GORE Good evening, it's great to be here in Atlanta for this debate, where America will be show-cased to the world when the 1996 Olympics are put on right here. It's appropriate because in a real sense our discussion this evening will be about what kind of nation we want to be four years from now. It's also a pleasure to be with my two opponents this evening -- Admiral Stockdale, may I say it's a special honor to share this stage with you; those of us who served in Vietnam looked at you as a national hero even before you were awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. And Mr. Vice President, Dan, if I may, it was 16 years ago that you and I went to the Congress on the very first day together. I'll make you a deal this evening: If you don't try to compare George Bush to Harry Truman I won't compare you to Jack Kennedy. Harry Truman ----
 QUAYLE You remember the last time someone compared himself to Jack Kennedy? Do you remember what they said?
GORE Harry Truman, it's worth remembering, assumed the Presidency when Franklin Roosevelt died here in Georgia. Only one of many occasions when fate thrust a Vice President into the Oval Office in a time of crisis. It's something to think about during the debate this evening. But our real discussion is going to be about change. Bill Clinton and I stand for change because we don't believe our nation can stand four more years of what we've had under George Bush and Dan Quayle. When the recession came they were like a deer caught in the headlights -- paralyzed into inaction, blinded to the suffering and pain of bankruptcies and people who were unemployed.
We have an environmental crisis, a health-insurance crisis, substandard education -- it is time for a change. Bill Clinton and I want to get our country moving forward again, put our people back to work and create a bright future for the United States of America.
Q Thank you. O.K., the next statement will be from Vice President Quayle.
QUAYLE Well, thank you Senator Gore for reminding me about my performance in the 1988 Vice Presidential debate. This is 1992. Bill Clinton is running against President George Bush. There are two things that I'm going to stress during this debate.
One, Bill Clinton's economic plan and his agenda will make matters much, much worse. He will raise your taxes. He will increase spending. He will make government bigger. Jobs will be lost.
Second, Bill Clinton does not have the strength nor the character to be President of the United States. Let us look ----
Q Let's watch the applause.
QUAYLE ---- let us look at the agendas. President Bush wants to hold the line on taxes. Bill Clinton wants to raise taxes. President Bush is for a balanced-budget amendment. Bill Clinton is opposed to it. We want to reform the legal system because it's too costly. Bill Clinton wants the status quo. We want to reform the health-care system. Bill Clinton wants to ration health care. Bill Clinton wants to empower government. We want to empower people.
In St. Louis, Mo., in June of this year Bill Clinton said this, America is the mockery of the world. He is wrong. At sometime during these next four years there is going to be a crisis. There will be an international crisis. I can't tell you where it's going to be. I can't even tell you the circumstances, but it will happen. We need a President who has the experience, who has been tested, who has the integrity and qualifications to handle the crisis. The President has been tested. The President has the integrity and the character. The choice is yours. You need to have a President you can trust. Can you really trust Bill Clinton?
Q Admiral Stockdale, your opening statement, please, sir.
STOCKDALE Who am I? Why am I here? I'm not a politician; everybody knows that. So don't expect me to use the language of the Washington insider. Thirty-seven years in the Navy and only one of them up there in Washington. And now I'm an academic. The centerpiece of my life was the Vietnam War. I was there the day it started; I led the first bombing raid against North Vietnam. I was there the day it ended, and I was there for everything in between. Ten years in Vietnam. Aerial combat and torture. I know things about the Vietnam War better than anybody in the world. I know some things about the Vietnam War better than anybody in the world. And I know how governments -- how American governments -- can be courageous and how they can be callow, and that's important. That's one thing I'm an insider on.
I was the leader of the underground of the American pilots who were shot down and imprisoned in North Vietnam. You should know that the American character displayed in those dungeons by those fine men was the thing of beauty. I look back on those years as the beginning of wisdom, learning everything a man can learn about the vulnerabilities and the strengths that are ours as Americans. Why am I here tonight? I am here because I have in my brain and in my heart what it takes to lead America through tough times.
 
Role of Vice President
 Q I thought since you're running for Vice President that we ought to start off by talking about the Vice Presidency itself. The Vice President presides over the Senate, he casts the deciding vote in case of a tie, but his role really depends on the assignments that are given to him by the President.
However, if a President should die in office or is unable to serve for any other reason, the Vice President automatically becomes President. And that has happened five times this century.
So the proposition I put on the table for you to discuss is this: What role would each of you like to play as Vice President, what areas interest you and what are your qualifications to serve as President if necessary?
In the case of Vice President Quayle, who we're starting with, suppose you tell us the role that you did play in the first term and what you would like to do in the second term. Go ahead, sir.
QUAYLE Well, then, I won't give you that answer. Qualifications: I've been there, Hal. I've done the job. I've been tested; I've been Vice President for four years. Senator Gore referred to us being elected to the Congress together in 1976. I've done the job. I've done many things for the President.
But even as Vice President, you never know exactly what your role is going to be from time to time. And let me just give you an example of where I was tested under fire and in a crisis.
President Bush was flying to Malta in 1989 to meet with President Gorbachev. It was the first meeting between President Bush and President Gorbachev; they had known each other before.
A coup broke out in the Philippines. I had to go to the Situation Room. I had to assemble the President's advisers. I talked to President Aquino. I made the recommendation to the President. The President made the decision. The coup was suppressed; democracy continued in the Philippines; the situation was ended.
I've been there. And I'll tell you one other thing that qualifies you for being President. And it's this, Hal: You've got to stand up for what you believe in. And nobody's ever criticized me for not having strong beliefs.
Q Admiral Stockdale.
STOCKDALE My association with Mr. Perot is a very personal one and as I have stood in and finally taken his running-mate position, he has granted me total autonomy. I don't take advantage of it but I am sure that he would make me a partner in decisions, in making decisions about the way to handle health care, the way to get this economy back on its feet again in every way. I have not had the experience of these gentlemen but, to be any more specific -- but, I know I have his trust and I intend to act in a way to keep that situation alive. Thank you.
Q Senator Gore
GORE Bill Clinton understands the meaning of the words teamwork and partnership. If we're successful in our efforts to gain your trust and lead this nation, we will work together to put our country back on the right track again. The experience that George Bush and Dan Quayle have been talking about includes the worst economic performance since the Great Depression. Unemployment is up, personal income is down, bankruptcies are up, housing starts are down. How long can we continue with trickle-down economics when the record of failure is so abundantly clear? Discussions of the Vice Presidency tend sometimes to focus on the crisis during which a Vice President is thrust into the Oval Office and, indeed, one third of the Vice Presidents who have served have been moved into the White House, but the teamwork and partnership beforehand -- and hopefully that situation never happens -- how you work together is critically important. The way we've worked together in this campaign is one sample. Now I'd like to say, in response to Vice President Quayle -- he talked about Malta and the Philippines -- George Bush has concentrated on every other country in the world. When are you guys going to start worrying about our people, here, in the United States of America, and get our country moving again?
Q Again I will ask the audience please do not applaud. It takes time from the candidates. All right. Now we have five minutes for discussion and go ahead Vice President Quayle.
QUAYLE The answer to that is very simple that we are not going to raise taxes to create new jobs. We have a plan to create jobs. But that wasn't the question. The question dealt with qualifications. Teamwork and partnership may be fine in the Congress, Senator Gore. That's what Congress is all about, compromise, teamwork, working things out. But when you're President of the United States, or when you're Vice President and you have to fill in like I did the night of the crisis in the Philippines, you've got to make a decision. You've got to make up your mind. Bill Clinton, running for President of the United States said this about the Persian Gulf War. He said, Had I been in the Senate, I would have voted with the majority. It was a close vote, but I agreed with the arguments of the minority. You can't have it both ways. You have to make a decision. You cannot sit there in an international crisis and sit there and say well, on one hand it's -- this is O.K., and on the other hand this is O.K. You've got to make the decision. President Bush has made the decisions. He's been tested. He's got the experience. He's got the qualification. He's got the integrity to be our President for the next four years.
Q Mr. Vice President. Admiral Stockdale, it's your turn to respond.
STOCKDALE O.K., I thought this was just an open session, this five-minute thing, and I didn't have anything to add to his, but I will -- --
GORE Well, I'll jump in if -- if you don't want it.
QUAYLE I thought anyone could jump in whenever they wanted to.
Q O.K., whatever pleases you gentlemen is fine with me, you're the candidates.
QUAYLE But I want Admiral Stockdale's time!
Q This is not the Senate -- this is not the Senate where you can trade off time. Go ahead, Senator Gore.
GORE I'll let you all figure out the rules. I've got some points that I want to make here, and I still haven't gotten an answer to my question on when you guys are going to start worrying about this country. But I want to elaborate on it before ----
QUAYLE Why doesn't -- why doesn't the Democratic Congress ----
Q Let him talk, sir.
QUAYLE ---- pass the jobs bill?
Q Let him say his thoughts.
GORE I was very patient in letting you get off that string of attacks. We've been listening to ----
QUAYLE They're good points.
GORE ---- to trickle-down economics for 12 years now and you all still support trickle-down to the very last drop. And you, talking about this point of concentrating on every other country in the world, as opposed to the people of our country right here at home, when George Bush took former Secretary of State Baker out of the State Department and put him in charge of the campaign and made him chief of staff in the White House, Mr. Baker, who's quite a capable man, said that for these last four years George Bush was working on the problems of the rest of the world and in the next four years he would target America. Well, I want you to know we really appreciate that, but Bill Clinton and I will target America from Day 1. We won't wait four years before we concentrate on the problems in this country.
He went on to say that it's really amazing what George Bush can do when he concentrates. Well, it's time that we had a President like Bill Clinton who can concentrate, and will concentrate, and work on the problems of real people in this country. You know, our country is in trouble. We simply cannot continue with this philosophy of giving huge tax cuts to the very wealthy, raising taxes on middle-income families the way Bush and Quayle have done, and then waiting for it to work.
How much longer will it take, Dan, for trickle-down economics to work, in your theory?
QUAYLE Well, we're going to have plenty of time to talk about trickle down government which you're for --
GORE Well, I'd like to hear the answer.
QUAYLE But the question is, the question is, which you have failed to address, and that is: why is Bill Clinton qualified to be President of the United States? You've talked about Jim --
GORE Oh, I'll be happy to answer that.
QUAYLE You've talked about Jim Baker. You've talked about trickle-down economics.
Q Now wait a minute. The question was about ----
QUAYLE You've talked about the worst economy in 50 years.
GORE I'll be happy to answer.
QUAYLE You haven't told us one reason why Bill Clinton ----
GORE May I answer?
QUAYLE ---- is qualified to be President of the United States --
GORE I'll be happy to answer.
QUAYLE ---- and how -- I want to go back and make a point.
GORE Well, you've asked me a question, let -- if want an answer ----
QUAYLE I have not asked you a question. I've made a statement.
GORE And I will answer yours.
QUAYLE I have not asked a question, I've made a statement that you have not told us why Bill Clinton is qualified to be President of the United States. I pointed out what he said about the Persian Gulf War. But let me repeat it for you. Here's what he said, Senator, you know full well what he said.
GORE May I answer your question?
QUAYLE I'm making a statement, then you can answer it.
Q Can, can we give Admiral Stockdale a chance to come in here please, and again audience ----
QUAYLE But he said, Hal, here's what he said. If the -- I mean this is the Persian Gulf War, the most important event in his political life, and here's what Bill Clinton said: If it's a close vote, I'd vote with the majority ----
Q Let's give Admiral Stockdale a chance to come in.
QUAYLE -- but I agreed with the minority. That qualifies you for being President of the United States? I hope America is listening very closely to this debate.
STOCKDALE And I think America is seeing right now the reason this nation is in gridlock. The trickle-downs and the tax-and-spends, or whatever you want to call them, are at swords' points; you can't get this economy going. Over here we've got Dan, whose President is going to take eight years to balance the budget, and on my left, the Senator, whose boss is going to get it halfway balanced in four years. Ross Perot has got a plan to balance the budget five years in length from start to finish. And we're people of the non-professional category who are just sick of this terrible thing that happened to the country, and we've got a man who knows how to fix it. And I'm working for him.
 
Cuts in Military Spending
 Q I think it's time to move on to our next topic. All three of you gentlemen have some expertise in defense and the armed forces. Vice President Quayle and Senator Gore both served on the Senate Armed Services Committee. Admiral Stockdale, of course, has a very distinguished military career. With the end of the cold war, everyone agrees that there's going to be major cuts. They've already started in the defense budget. But this country has a long history of neglecting its military needs in peacetime, then paying for it with heavy casualties when we're caught unprepared.
How much of a defense cut is safe? What happens to the people who are forced to leave the military services, or if they lose their jobs because they're working in defense industries? I think we start with Senator Gore this time.
GORE Bill Clinton and I support a strong national defense. He and I have both fought for change within the Democratic Party as well as within the country.
In the aftermath of the cold war, the definition of strong national defense has obviously changed somewhat. For example, George Bush wants to maintain at least 150,000 American soldiers in Europe even though World War II ended 50 years ago.
Bill Clinton and I agree with so many military experts who believe that it is time for the Europeans, who are so much wealthier now and more powerful than they were at the end of World War II, to start picking up a little more of that tab themselves and not rely so exclusively on the United States taxpayers for the defense of Europe.
We believe that we can make savings in our defense budget and at the same time improve our national security. Now for those who are affected by the cutbacks, whether they come from George Bush or Bill Clinton and me, the difference is Bill Clinton and I have a defense conversion program, so that those who won the cold war will not be left out in the cold.
We want to put them to work building an infrastructure and an economy here in this country for the 90's and the next century.
Q Vice President Quayle.
QUAYLE We won the cold war because we invested in national security. We won the cold war because we invested in our military. We won the cold war because America had the political will and made the right decisions. Yes, we can make the cuts in defense, and we have. Bill Clinton wants to cut defense another $60 billion. I'd say to the defense workers in California and elsewhere, a $60 billion defense cut's going to cut a lot of jobs out. Yes, we are making a conversion and we go to a civil -- space rather than having defense -- the defense industry.
But let me say this: We would not have won the cold war if we had listened to Senator Gore and his crowd and had supported a nuclear freeze. If you would have supported that attitude, we would not have won the cold war. We won the cold war because we invested and we went forward.
Q O.K. Admiral Stockdale, please.
STOCKDALE The numbers, in terms of the dollar cuts, as they stand on our plans now show us almost the same as the Vice President's. But we, we note that Mr. -- Governor Clinton's plan is almost twice as much a cut as either one of us. I, I've been through the end of World War II and the surprise beginning of Korea to see how we -- it cost us more money because we overcut the defense budget in the first place. I don't say that -- so I think that should be eyed with great suspicion. People that are really kicking the props out from under our grand military establishment prematurely. Now there's other differences between the Perot approach and what we see up here on either side of me, and that has to do with -- we want to focus our interests economic and military more to the Pacific. We figure that we are generally going along with any sort of a troop removal from Europe. So that's still another face of this puzzle.
Q Senator Gore, would you like to start the discussion period on this topic?
GORE Yeah, I'd like to respond first to you, Admiral Stockdale. Under the details of our five-year budget plan, we do propose more in defense cuts than George Bush and Dan Quayle, but only 5 percent more. Admiral Crowe, who I think was one of your classmates in Annapolis ----
STOCKDALE Oh yes, I know him.
GORE ---- has endorsed the military portions of our plan even though he was the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs under George Bush, and John White has endorsed the economic aspects of our plan even though I believe he was the architect of Ross Perot's economic plan. Now when I heard George Bush say at the convention in Houston that when he heard the phrase "We won the Cold War," it made him wonder who the we was. Well, I want to tell you, President Bush, the we is the people of the United States of America. This wasn't a partisan victory that came suddenly a few months after you took the oath of office. This started with Harry Truman, and it was a bipartisan effort from the very beginning. George Bush taking credit for the Berlin Wall coming down is like the rooster taking credit for the sunrise.
And I want, I want to add one other thing because in the debate a few nights ago I think President Bush made a very serious misstatement of fact in response to Ross Perot. It was kind of a little lecture he gave to Ross Perot when he said "those SS18's are gone, Ross, that's done." He signed -- he reached a deal with Boris Yeltsin to completely remove them so we can all sleep safely without any fear tonight. But you know what? They thought they were gonna get that deal. But when he took the person in charge of the negotiations out of the State Department and put him in charge of the re-election campaign, the deal unraveled, and now there is no Start II deal at all. In fact, there are serious problems. Isn't it a fact, Dan, that every single one of those SS18's is still there in the silos, and under the Start I treaty, only half of the silos are supposed to be dismantled, and there is no deal to get rid of the other half? Didn't the President make a mistake there?
Q Senator. Vice President Quayle, please.
QUAYLE The President does have a commitment from Boris Yeltsin to eliminate the SS-18's; that is a commitment.
GORE Is it an agreement?
QUAYLE It is a commitment and ----
[All talking at once.]
---- lighten up here, Al.
Let's talk about getting agreements. You know, the President of the United States doesn't just negotiate with your friends in Congress. The President of the United States deals on the international scene. He's got to deal with the President of Russia, he's got to deal with the Chancellor of Germany, Prime Minister of Britain, President of France, Prime Minister of Japan; he's got to deal with a whole host of leaders around the world. And the leaders sit down and they will negotiate and they will come to agreements with people that they trust. And this is a fundamental problem with Bill Clinton -- is trust and character. It is not the issue of how he avoided military service 20 some years ago; it's the fact, it's the fact that he does not tell the truth about it. He first said he didn't get an induction notice, then we find out that he did. He said he didn't have an R.O.T.C. slot, then we find out he did. He said he didn't use Senator Fulbright's office for special influence; then we find out that he did. These are inconsistencies. Bill Clinton has trouble telling the truth, and he will have a very difficult time dealing with somebody like President Yeltsin or Chancellor Kohl or Prime Minister Major or President Mitterand, because truth and integrity are prerequisites to being President of the United States.
GORE I want to respond to that. I want to respond to that. George Bush, in case you've forgotten, Dan, said, "Read my lips, no new taxes."
QUAYLE "Read my lips."
GORE And you know what he also said?
QUAYLE I didn't think I was going to hear that tonight.
GORE Hold on. Hold on, let me finish.
QUAYLE O.K.
GORE He also said he wanted to be the environmental President. Then he went on to say he wanted to be the education President. Then he said that he wouldn't raise taxes again, no, never, ever, ever. Then the next day his spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, came out and said, "That's not a pledge." Then two weeks ago he said that after the election, if you win, then James Baker's going to go back to be Secretary of State. Then a week later, in the debate a few nights ago, he said, "No, after the election, if we win, James Baker is going to be in charge of domestic policy." Which is it, Dan? Is he going to -- what's your role in this going to be?

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Environment
 Q Everyone wants a safe and clean environment, but there's an ongoing conflict between environmental protection and the need for economic growth and jobs. So the point I throw out on the table is: How do you resolve this conflict between protection of the environment and growth in jobs, and why has it taken so long to deal with basic problems such as toxic waste dumps, clean air and clean water.
And Vice President Quayle, it's your turn to start first.
QUAYLE Hal, that is a false choice. You don't have to have a choice between the environment and jobs. You can have both. Look at the President's record. Clean air legislation passed the Democratic Congress because of the leadership of George Bush. It is the most comprehensive Clean Air Act in our history. We are firmly behind preserving our environment, and we have a good record with which to stand. The question comes back: what is going to be their position when it comes to the environment? I say it's a false choice. Their -- you want to ask somebody in Michigan, a U.A.W. worker in Michigan, if they think increasing the CAFE standards, the fuel economy standards, of 45 miles a gallon is a good idea. 300,000 people out of work. You ought to talk to the timber people in the Northwest where they say that their -- well, we can only save the owl; forget about jobs. You ought to talk to the coal miners -- talk about -- talking about putting a coal tax on; they're talking of taxing utilities; a tax on gasoline, home heating oil; all sorts of taxes. No, Hal, the choice isn't the environment and jobs; with the right policies, prudent policies, we can have both.
STOCKDALE I read Senator Gore's book about the environment and I don't see how he could possibly pay for his proposals in today's economic climate. You know, the "Marshall Plan of the Environment" and so forth. And also, I'm told by some experts that the things that he fears most may not be all that dangerous, according to some scientists. You know, you can overdo, I'm told, environmental cleaning up. If you purify the pond, the water lilies die. You know, I love this planet and I want it to stay here, but I don't like to have it the private property of fanatics that want to overdo this thing.
Q Senator Gore.
GORE Bill Clinton and I believe we can create millions of new jobs by leading the environmental revolution instead of dragging our feet and bringing up the rear. You know, Japan and Germany are both openly proclaiming to the world now that the biggest new market in the history of world business is the market for the new products and technologies that foster economic progress without environmental destruction. Why is the Japanese business organization, the largest one they have, the Keidanren, arguing for tougher environmental standards than those embodied in U.S. law? Why is MITI, their trade organization, calling on all Japanese corporations everywhere in the world to exceed by as much as possible the environmental standards of every country in which they're operating?
Well, maybe they're just dumb about business competition, but maybe they know something that George Bush and Dan Quayle don't know: that the future will call for greater efficiency and great environmental efficiency. This is an issue that touches my basic values. I'm taught in my religious tradition that we are given dominion over the earth, but we're required to be good stewards of the earth, and that means to take care of it. We're not doing that now under the Bush-Quayle policies. They have gutted the Clean Air Act. They have broken his pledge to be the environmental President. Bill Clinton and I will change that.
QO.K., discussion period now. Again, leave time for each other, please. Vice President Quayle, go ahead.
QUAYLE Well, I -- I might -- I'm tempted to yield to Admiral Stockdale on this, but I -- you know, the fact of the matter is that one of the proposals that Senator Gore has suggested is to have the taxpayers of America spend $100 billion a year on environmental projects in foreign countries.
GORE That's just not true.
QUAYLE Foreign aid.
GORE It's not true.
QUAYLE Senator, it's in your book, on page 304.
GORE No, it's not. No, it's not. No, it's not.
QUAYLE It is in your book. You know, Hal, I wanted to bring the Gore book tonight because I figured he was going to pull a Bill Clinton on me, and he has, because he's going to disavow what's in his book. It's in your book.
GORE No.
QUAYLE It's a high -- it comes out to $100 billion of foreign aid for environmental projects. Now, how ----
Q Now let's give him a chance to answer.
QUAYLE ---- how will we pay for it?
QLet ----
QUAYLE How are we going to pay for an extra $100 billion of taxpayers' money for this?
GORE Dan, I appreciate you reading my book very much. But you've got it wrong.
QUAYLE No, I've got it right.
GORE There's no such proposal. There is no such ----
QUAYLE O.K., O.K. Well, we'll find out afterwards.
Q Let him talk, Mr. Vice President. Let the Senator talk. Go ahead.
GORE There is no such proposal. What I have called upon is the cooperative effort by the United States and Europe and Asia to work together in opening up new markets throughout the world for the new technologies that are necessary in order to reconcile the imperatives of economic progress with the imperatives of environmental protection.
Take Mexico City for an example. They are shutting down factories right now, not because of their economy but because they're choking to death on the air pollution. They're banning automobiles some days of the week. Now what they want is not new laser-guided missile systems. What they want are new engines and new factories and new products that don't pollute the air and the water but nevertheless allow them to have a decent standard of living for their people.
Last year 35 percent of our exports went to developing countries, countries where the population is expanding worldwide by as much as one billion people every 10 years. We cannot stick our heads in the sand and pretend that we don't face a global environmental crisis. Nor should we assume that it's going to cost jobs. Quite the contrary. We are going to be able to create jobs as Japan and Germany are planning to do right now if we have the guts to leave.
Now, earlier we heard about the auto industry and the timber industry. There have been 250,000 jobs lost in the automobile industry during the Reagan-Bush-Quayle years. There have been tens of thousands of jobs lost in the timber industry. What they like to do is to point the finger of blame with one hand and hand out pink slips with the other hand. They've done a poor job both with the economy and the environment. It's time for a change.
Q Admiral Stockdale, did you have something you wanted to say here?
STOCKDALE I know that I read where Senator Gore's mentor had disagreed with some of the scientific data that is in his book. How do you respond to those criticisms of that sort? Do you ----
QUAYLE -- deny it?
GORE Well, ----
STOCKDALE ---- take this into account?
GORE No, I -- let me respond. Thank you, Admiral, for saying that. You're talking about Roger Revelle. His family wrote a lengthy letter saying how terribly he had been misquoted and had his remarks taken completely out of context just before he died. He believed up until the day he died -- no, it's true --
Q I ask the audience to stop please.
GORE ---- he died last year and just before he died he co-authored an article which had statements taken completely out of context. In fact, the vast majority of the world's scientists -- and they have worked on this extensively -- believe that we must have an effort to face up to the problems we face with the environment. And if we just stick our heads in the sand and pretend that it's not real, we're not doing ourselves a favor. Even worse than that, we're telling our children and all future generations that we weren't willing to face up to this obligation. I believe that we have a mandate to try to solve this problem, particularly when we can do it while we create jobs in the process.
Q Go ahead, Mr. Vice President.
QUAYLE We've got to have a little equal time here now, Hal.
In the book you also suggest taxes on gasoline, taxes on utilities, taxes on carbon, taxes on timber. There's a whole host of taxes, and I don't just believe raising taxes is the way to solve our environmental problems. And you talk about the bad situation in the auto industry. You seem to say that the answer is, Well, I'll just make it that much worse by increasing the CAFE standards. Yes, the auto industry is hurting -- it's been hurting a long time -- and increasing the CAFE standards to 45 miles per gallon like you and Bill Clinton are suggesting will put, as I said, 300,000 people out of work.
 
Health Care
 Q Let's move on now. I would like to remind the audience of one thing. Trying to stop you from applauding may be a lost cause. I didn't say anything about hissing but I do think it is discourteous. There's no call for that and it reflects badly on the candidate you're supporting. Let's knock that off. Let's go on to health care. Health care protection has become a necessity of life in our society, yet millions of Americans are not insured and the cost of medical treatment is practically out of control. How do you propose to control these costs, and how are you going to provide access to health care for every American? Let's see, whose turn is it to go now?I think it's Admiral Stockdale's turn. Go ahead, sir.
STOCKDALE Well, we have excellent technical health care but we don't administer it very well. And the escalating costs top any other budget danger in the -- on the horizon I think. And what Mr. Perot has suggested is that we try to -- look at the incentives, the incentives that are in our current way of doing business are what are killing us. There's no incentive for a hypochondriac not to go to the -- to Medicare every day. There is no incentive for a doctor to curtail the expensive tests because he's under threat of malpractice lawyers. And so we, we just have a web of wrong-way incentives that has to be changed by some people who are in the medical profession and some other crafty people who know how to write contracts to change incentives, or get the incentive situation under control.
Q Senator Gore.
GORE Bill Clinton and I believe that if a criminal has the right to a lawyer, every American family ought to have the right to see a doctor of their own choosing when they need to see a doctor. There are almost 40 million Americans who work fulltime today and yet have no health insurance whatsoever. We are proposing to change that. Not with a Government-run plan, not with new taxes, but with a new approach called managed competition. We are going to provide a standard health insurance package provided by private insurance companies and eliminate the duplication and red tape and overlap, and we're going to have cost controls to eliminate the unnecessary procedures that are costing so much money today. There was a bipartisan commission evenly divided between Republicans and Democrats who looked at our plan and the Bush-Quayle proposal. They said ours will save tens of billions of dollars and cover every American. The Bush proposal by contrast will cost us tens of billions and still leave Americans uninsured. But what I want to know is, why has George Bush waited for three and a half years during this health insurance crisis before finally coming out with a proposal just before the election, and he still hasn't introduced it in Congress. Why the long wait, Dan?
Q Mr. Vice President?
QUAYLE Al, President Bush has had his health care reform agenda on Capitol Hill for eight months. He's had parts up there for years -- you talk about increasing costs -- the President has had on Capitol Hill medical malpractice reform legislation for several years. Defensive medicine and health care today cost $20.7 billion -- defensive medicine defined as testing and treatment that is only necessary in case of a law suit. Wouldn't that be nice, to take $20.7 billion that we're putting into our legal system and put it to preventive health care, or women's health care, or something else besides trial lawyers?
But, no, you don't want to reform the health care system to drive down costs through medical malpractice. What you're doing -- you are talking about a government program, your program is to ration health care. You said in your statement, "to see a doctor when you want to see a doctor." When you start rationing halth care, there's going to be a waiting line to see a doctor unless it's an emergency. Remember when we rationed energy in this country? Waiting lines at the gasoline stations. The same thing would happen when you ration health care. The President's proposal deals with tax credits, deductions in purchasing health care in the private sector, and making health care affordable and available to every single American.
Q Admiral Stockdale, would you like to start the discussion period?
STOCKDALE Well, I'm out of ammunition on this.
GORE Well, let me talk then. I've got a couple of things that I want to say.
Q Go ahead, Senator.
GORE We still didn't get an answer to the question of why George Bush waited for three and a half years during the --
QUAYLE We didn't wait three and a half years. I did answer the question.
GORE -- national health insurance crisis before he even made a proposal. And it still hasn't been submitted to Congress in the form of legislation.
QUAYLE It certainly has.
GORE I also want to respond to the question about malpractice. Do you know which state has the lowest malpractice premiums in the entire country? Bill Clinton's Arkansas does, partly because he has passed reform measures limiting the time during which malpractice suits can be filed. In fact, tort claims generally have fallen 10 percent under Bill Clinton there. But you, that's not the reason for this health insurance crisis. The reason is we've had absolutely no leadership.
Let me tell you about a friend of mine named Mitch Philpott, from Marietta, Ga., not far from here, who Tipper and I met with his family in Johns Hopkins Hospital. Their son Brett was in the bed next to our son and they couldn't pay their medical bills. They used to live in Atlanta, but they lost their house. And while they were there, both Mitch and his wife lost their jobs because they could not get unpaid leave. We passed legislation to give family leave under circumstances like that exempting small business. How can you talk about family values, Dan, and twice veto the Family Medical Leave Act?
Q Mr. Vice President.
QUAYLE Pass, pass our Family Leave Act and because it goes to small businesses where the major problem is -- your proposal excluded small business. That's the problem. Now let me talk about health care --
GORE Did you ----
QUAYLE My turn----
GORE Did you require----
QUAYLE Lighten up, Al. My turn.
GORE It's a free discussion----
QUAYLE Take a breath, Al. Inhale.
GORE It's a free discussion. Did you require family leave in that legislation, yes or no?
QUAYLE We offered incentives to small businesses.
GORE Yes or no.
QUAYLE Were small businesses exempted under your proposal?
GORE Yes.
QUAYLE Yes, and that's where the ----
GORE Did you require ----
QUAYLE I'm going to get back to the topic at hand----
GORE Did you require----
QUAYLE He obviously doesn't want to talk about health insurance or health care which you addressed. It was absolutely -- I guess I shouldn't say that -- another Clinton. You pulled another Clinton on me because here you go again.
Medical malpractice legislation has been before the Congress of the United States and you try to convince the American people that Bill Clinton is for total reform? The biggest campaign contributors to your campaign are the trial lawyers of America. We have a letter and we're going to release it again to the media if the media is interested where the head of the Trial Lawyers of Arkansas said that Bill Clinton was basically in their back pocket, that Bill Clinton has always opposed full reform of any kind -- it's in the letter, we have it, we'll make it available. Because Bill Clinton is not for court reform. I'd like to know where Bill Clinton stands on health insurance. When he was campaigning in New Hampshire he says I am for the pay-or-play health insurance. Pay or play? That's a 7 to 9 percent payroll tax on every worker in America that participates in this program.
GORE Can I respond?
QUAYLE And then all of a sudden, this summer he says oh, I'm not for pay or play. Here we go again. Bill Clinton -- one day he's for pay or play, the next day he's against pay or play. He does it in education. He says -- writes Polly Williams, a Democrat state legislator in Milwaukee, Wis., saying "I'm for choice and education." Then he goes to the N.E.A. Teachers Union and says, "Sorry, I'm not for choice in education because you won't let me be for choice and education." One time Bill Clinton says term limits, we've got to limit terms, it's ridiculous that a member of Congress can serve for 30, 40, 50 years and you limit the terms of the President, but that's another subject.
GORE We're fixing to limit one.
QUAYLE It's not going to be mine; it's going to be people like you and Kennedy and Metzenbaum and George Mitchell and the rest of that Democratic Congress on Capitol Hill. That's who we're talking about. And that's who the American people impeach. As you well know, you've got term limits for a President, you don't have term limits for Congress. And I think it's absolutely ridiculous that we don't. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
The Issue of Abortion
 Q Abortion rights has been a bitter controversy in this country for almost 20 years. It's been heightened by the recent Supreme Court decisions. So I'll make it very simple in this question: Where do each of you stand on the issue; what action will your President's Adminstration take on any abortion question; will it be a factor in the appointment in the Federal judges, especially to the Supreme Court. And I believe that Senator Gore goes first.
GORE Bill Clinton and I support the right of a woman to choose. That doesn't mean we're pro-abortion; in fact, we believe there are way too many abortions in this country, and the way to reduce them is by reducing the number of unwanted pregnancies, not vetoing family planning legislation the way George Bush has consistently done. The reason we are pro-choice and in favor of a woman's right to privacy is because we believe that during the early stages of a pregnancy, the Government has no business coming in and ordering a woman to do what the Government thinks is best.
What Dan Quayle and George Bush and Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson think is the right decision in a given set of circumstances is their privilege, but don't have the Government order a woman to do what they think is the right thing to do. We ought to be able to build more common ground among those who describe themselves as pro-choice and pro-life in efforts to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies.
But, Dan, you can clear this up very simply by repeating after me: I support the right of a woman to choose. Can you say that?
Q Vice President Quayle, your turn.
QUAYLE This issue is an issue that divides Americans deeply. I happen to be pro-life, I have been pro-life for my 16 years in public life. My objective and the President's objective is to try to reduce abortions in this country. We have 1.6 million abortions. We have more abortions in Washington, D.C., than we do live births. Why shouldn't we have more reflection upon the issue before abortion -- the decision of abortion is made? I would hope that we would agree upon that, something like a 24-hour waiting period, parental notification.
I was in Los Angeles recently and I talked to a woman who told me that she had an abortion when she was 17 years of age. And looking back on that, she said it was a mistake. And she said -- she said, "I wish at that time that I was going through the difficult time that I had counseling to talk about the post-abortion trauma and talk about adoption rather than abortion. Because if I had had that discussion I would have had the child." Let's not forget that every abortion stops a beating heart. I think we have far too many abortions in this country -- in this country of ours.
Q Admiral Stockdale.
STOCKDALE I believe that a woman owns her body and what she does with it is her own business -- period. Period.
Q That's it?
STOCKDALE I don't -- I, too, abhor abortions but I don't think they should be made illegal and I don't think it's a political issue. I think it's a privacy issue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the conclusion of last night's debate in Atlanta, Vice President Dan Quayle and his wife, Marilyn, embraced as Senator Al Gore and his wife, Tipper, went to greet the moderator, Hal Bruno. James B. Stockdale, upper left, walked away from his podium (Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. A20); Sharon Holman, left, Ross Perot's press secretary and Karen O'Leary, James B. Stockdale's press secretary watching the debate last night in their office in Atlanta. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) (pg. A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; TELEVISION; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (61%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); LAYOFFS (56%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); STOCKDALE, JAMES BOND AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



450 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: New Nobel Laureate Takes Economics Far Afield

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
Gary S. Becker of the University of Chicago has been awarded the 1992 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science. It was the third economics Nobel in three years for the university, whose policy-oriented economists have had an immense impact on the profession in the last half-century.
The 61-year old professor, who writes a column for Business Week along with teaching both economics and sociology, was honored by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences for "having extended the domain of economic theory to aspects of human behavior which had previously been dealt with -- if at all -- by other social science disciplines such as sociology, demography and criminology."
 
'Not Highfaluting'

 And while reactions to Mr. Becker's use of disarmingly simple economics to analyze everything from child-bearing to binge drinking have ranged from adulation to rage, the award was widely applauded by scholars. "This is not highfaluting, technical stuff," Daniel Hamermesh of Michigan State University said. "But it's a way of thinking that is profoundly original." 
 Indeed, in the view of some analysts, Mr. Becker is among the best of the best, perhaps the last Nobel laureate economist of his generation with an indisputable claim to the prize. The economics prize went last year to Ronald Coase of the Law School and two years ago to Merton Miller of the Graduate School of Business.
Born in Pottsville, Pa., Mr. Becker graduated from Princeton in 1951 and earned a doctorate in economics at the University of Chicago. He was invited to stay on as an assistant professor -- a rare honor at the elite graduate economics department.
But even as a neophyte scholar, his application of orthodox economic tools to unorthodox subjects confounded colleagues. Asked to speak at Harvard in 1955 on the subject of his Ph.D. dissertation, the economics of discrimination, Mr. Becker recalls that his lecture was greeted with puzzlement. "They thought I would discuss price discrimination," he said -- the hoary issue of what happens when businesses try to charge different people different prices for the same goods. "No one conceived that an economist would talk about race discrimination in those days."
That first major work is, in fact, the work of which Mr. Becker says he is most proud. And it is certainly typical of his research. He applied the economic techniques previously used to analyze the implications of international trade to the question of how racial and ethnic bias affects labor markets. A core conclusion: discrimination can exist only where markets are not fully competitive.
While this result may now seem obvious, it was an eye opener to economists in the 1950's. As important, it offered a highly practical way of predicting discrimination as well as a highly practical approach to ending it. "Becker's theory helped explain the decline of anti-Semitism in law and financial services," said Lawrence Summers of the World Bank.
James Heckman, a colleague of Mr. Becker's in the Chicago economics department, sees a more subtle and equally important benefit from the discrimination analysis and the work that followed. By organizing ideas into theories whose truth can be tested with evidence, he argues, Mr. Becker invited economists to collect data in new areas and then try to measure cause and effect. "Economics has a tendency to steer away from the real world," Mr. Heckman opined. "Becker brings them back."
 
Work on Education
 Mr. Becker moved to Columbia University in 1957 where he produced much of the work for which he is celebrated. His 1964 book "Human Capital," cited by the Royal Swedish Academy as his "most noteworthy contribution," rigorously laid out the case for thinking about education as an economic decision.
Obvious? It may seem that way in the midst of a Presidential election in which all three candidates are playing the education card. But in Mr. Heckman's view it produced a renaissance in the field of labor economics, a flowering of research on how wages and incomes are determined in modern capitalist economies.
Mr. Becker is credited with a parallel breakthrough in criminology. James Coleman, a sociologist at Chicago who teaches a class with Mr. Becker, points out that before the 1968 Becker article entitled "Crime and Punishment," research on criminal behavior focused on social factors. Mr. Becker, by contrast, treated crime as a rational decision that might be deterred by increasing the certainty or severity of punishment. Right or wrong, Mr. Coleman suggests, it created a framework for testing the value of policies ranging from capital punishment to putting more police on the beat.
If Mr. Becker's analysis of crime is his most controversial, his work on the economics of the family, much of which was published after he returned to the University of Chicago in 1970, is the most frequently mocked. Few subjects, after all, seem more removed from the interests or expertise of economists.
Mr. Becker started with the idea that families were productive units whose behavior could be dissected with the same tools that economists had applied to the business firm. Marriage, by this logic, is the union of productive factors in which the quantity and type of labor performed by each partner would be determined by economic incentives. Children are both consumption goods and potential workers; the choice of how many to have and how to treat them is a matter of cost and benefit.
 
Rigorous Look at Families
 Once again, though, a respectful Mr. Summers notes, Mr. Becker provided a framework that allowed a far more rigorous look at phenomena often viewed as beyond rational analysis. For example, the fact that children cannot earn their own keep in cities may explain why urbanization is a potent predictor of family size. Even McDonald's owes Mr. Becker a tip of the toque: higher wages for women's work outside the home probably goes a long way to explaining the rise of fast food.
For all his intellectual imperialism, Mr. Becker seems a modest man. "I am really very surprised," he said yesterday on learning of the $1.2 million award.
But others were not. "It's the most overdue prize they've ever given," Mr. Summers said.
Milton Friedman, the Nobel Prize- winning economist at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, added,"I know of no other economist who comes close to the range of Becker's work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary S. Becker of the University of Chicago after he won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO BUSINESS WEEK (70%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWEDEN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES; ECONOMICS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS NOBEL PRIZES (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (78%); LAWYERS (73%); PRICE DISCRIMINATION (67%); RANKINGS (66%); ETHNICITY (62%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; BECKER, GARY S GARY S BECKER (97%); JAMES HECKMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



451 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Alan Greenspan warned that global financial transactions may be too fast and complex for bank managers to understand. Speaking in Tokyo, he called for more governmental oversight. [D1.]
Gary S. Becker was awarded the 1992 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science. The University of Chicago scholar is noted for applying economic discipline to sociological phenomena. It was the third economics Nobel in three years for the university. [D1.] 
 Employers would be protected from lawsuits by employees disappointed with the return on their retirement plan investments under new rules adopted by the Government. [D2.]
The ordinary AM-FM radio would get new pizzazz under technologies agreed to by manufacturers and broadcasters. [D23.]
 
International
British Coal said it would close 31 of its 50 mines and lay off 30,000 miners, nearly three-quarters of the industry's dwindling work force. Utilities increasingly are importing coal at a time the moribund British economy is losing 8,000 jobs a week. [D1.]
 
Companies
Merrill Lynch and Paine Webber earnings surged -- 44 percent at Merrill and 35 percent at Paine Webber -- virtually insuring that 1992 will be a record year for Wall Street, but income fell 7 percent at Smith Barney, Harris Upham, a Primerica subsidiary. [D1.]
General Electric profits rose 7 percent, with gains at Kidder Peabody and in medical and aerospace divisions. But NBC lost money on the 1992 Olympics. [D1.]
Pepsico posted a 49.1 percent income gain in its soft-drink and food businesses. [D3.] Microsoft surprised analysts with a 45.1 percent surge. [D4.] Sprint had a 13.2 percent gain. [D4.]
G.M.'s executives are feeling mounting pressure to act boldly to halt the auto maker's deterioration in North America. [D4.]
The DeBartolo family can keep control of the San Francisco 49ers football team, the DeBartolo Corporation said, thanks to $300 million in bank loans extended the troubled mall developer. [D3.]
Procter & Gamble projected savings of $175 million a year from its new pricing strategy of eliminating discounts. [D3.]
Allen Grubman denied charges by Billy Joel that he had breached fiduiciary duty by paying kickbacks. [D23.]
 
Markets
The Dow industrials rose 27.01 points to 3,201.42, impelled by hopes of lower interest rates. [D10.] Bonds were little changed. [D19.]
The dollar fell against leading European currencies but rose against the yen. [D20.] Unleaded gasoline futures tumbled. [D20.]
 
Business Technology
Patients are learning about their conditions and options with interactive video, using a computer mouse or touch screen. [D6.]
Physicians are using Hewlett-Packard palmtop computers on their rounds at Greenwich Hospital. [D6.]
 
Today's Columns
Alco International's shares rose after the cargo-hauling and medical-products company sued short sellers and a reporter alleging slander. A court clerk says the suit has been dropped; the company says it is being revised. Market Place. [D10.]
Marketers were advised to redouble efforts to improve the effectiveness and creativity of their sales messages, as the Association of National Advertisers met. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D23.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); PEP (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (55%); PEPSICO INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); OLYMPICS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (69%); FUTURES (69%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (69%); COAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (65%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); SOFT DRINKS (64%); CURRENCIES (64%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (62%); SPORTS (62%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (62%); LIBEL & SLANDER (60%); LAYOFFS (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (50%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (50%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



452 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Urges Revisions In Taxi Plans

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
In formally announcing his plan to reorganize New York City's taxi industry yesterday, Mayor David N. Dinkins described a proposal that would make far fewer changes than he had originally planned in the hope of finally creating a consensus behind some form of change.
But the mixed response to the scaled-back proposal from representatives of various segments of the highly fragmented cab industry demonstrated just how hard it would be for Mr. Dinkins to gain broad acceptance for any plan that would significantly change taxi service in New York. 
 The Mayor's plan seeks to accomplish what has long eluded City Hall: a way to improve cab service outside the Manhattan business districts. Mr. Dinkins would allow livery cars, which ordinarily rely on radio calls, to use new hack stands at shopping centers, subway stops, hospitals and other busy locations throughout the city.
Those cars, to be called "community cabs," would be permitted to pick up passengers at the new hack stands, but they would not be allowed to cruise and accept riders who hail them on the streets. Yellow, or medallion, cabs are the only ones now allowed to take street hails.
 
Council Approval Needed
 The proposal, which Mr. Dinkins made public at a City Hall news conference and which requires the approval of the City Council, represented a retreat from a far more ambitious plan that he offered last January. That plan would have completely overhauled New York City's complex cab industry, creating new medallions for livery taxis, the licensed radio-car services outside lower and mid-Manhattan, and for so-called black cars, the more luxurious radio cars that work primarily in Manhattan, often with corporate clients.
By scaling back the plan, the Mayor and his aides clearly hoped the various elements of the industry would respond more positively to this proposal than they had to the previous one. The Mayor shelved some of the ideas that had caused the most discontent earlier in the year, including new medallions, which would have cost livery and black-car operators tens of thousands of dollars each.
Mr. Dinkins also dropped his proposal to allow all taxis, including livery cabs, to pick up street hails. Owners of yellow cabs had fought ferociously against expanding that right, which has been theirs alone since 1937, when the city froze the number of yellow-cab medallions at 11,787.
But the changes in the Mayor's latest plan still drew a mixed response yesterday from the taxi industry, which has held considerable influence in the City Council. Some industry representatives endorsed much of the new plan, but others said they would adamantly oppose it.
Eugene Pero, a radio-car service owner and the treasurer of the Livery Owners Coalition of New York, said his group, which represents about 150 car services, supported the plan for new hack stands. Mr. Pero said that the livery services did not need to pick up people who hailed them on the streets and that in many less densely populated parts of Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island and the Bronx, it would not make sense for radio cabs to cruise for street pickups.
If all taxis, including his own livery cabs, were allowed to pick up street hails, he said, unlicensed operators, known as gypsy cabs, would proliferate and threaten the licensed radio cars' existence. "Our whole industry has been based on pre-arrangement," said Mr. Pero, who was a member of a taxi advisory committee created early this year by the Mayor.
 
Dispute Over Compromises
 But another owner of a livery service, Frank Manzella of Jamaica, Queens, said radio-car services would be threatened by gypsy cabs unless the licensed cars were allowed to accept street hails. "The only way you could eliminate the gypsies would be if I could make street pickups," Mr. Manzella said, adding that many livery cabs routinely violate the current law by picking up street hails.
Mr. Manzella is a former president of the Livery Owners Coalition, who left the group earlier this year in a dispute over what compromises the group should accept in the Mayor's plan. He insisted yesterday that granting livery cabs the right to use new hack stands would not help them much if gypsy cabs were still picking up street hails in the surrounding neighborhoods.
"There's got to be a blanket move," he said. "We've got to have street pickups in all five boroughs."
Representatives of yellow-cab industry groups were also divided on the new, more modest proposal.
Ron Stoppelman, the president of the Metropolitan Taxi Board of Trade, which represents owners of large fleets of yellow cabs, called the Mayor's modified proposal "the most creative and comprehensive plan that's been put forth by anybody in a long, long time."
Mr. Stoppelman said he needed to see the details of the latest plan before he would endorse it. Like many industry representatives, he said he was encouraged by the Mayor's proposal to expand the city's enforcement against illegal cabs. But he also said that the city had not lived up to previous promises to increase enforcement and that he needed reassurance that the city would keep its promise this time.
Willie Bly, the head of the League of Mutual Taxi Owners, representing about 3,300 owners of taxi medallions, said his group would oppose the Mayor's plan, in particular because Mr. Dinkins would like to add 413 new yellow medallions. The money raised by selling the new medallions would help the city hire new inspectors for expanded enforcement. Mr. Bly said the new medallions would force down the medallions' current market price, which city officials estimate at $140,000 each.
Peg Breen, a spokeswoman for Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, said Mr. Vallone questioned whether there was a market for new medallions in the midst of a severe recession. Ms. Breen also said Mr. Vallone wanted to see taxi service improved outside Manhattan and was open to many of the Mayor's suggestions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor David N. Dinkins announcing ways to improve taxi cab service outside the Manhattan business districts at a news conference. With him, from left, were Marvin Greenberg, Taxi and Limousine Commissioner; Fidel F. Del Valle, Limousine Commission chairman, and Abraham Norwick, counsel. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION LIVERY OWNERS COALITION (61%); CITY COUNCIL (60%); METROPOLITAN TAXI BOARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION LIVERY OWNERS COALITION (61%); CITY COUNCIL (60%); METROPOLITAN TAXI BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (96%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); RETAILERS (54%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); FINDER, ALAN DAVID N DINKINS (90%); FRANK MANZELLA (60%); EUGENE PERO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



453 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Life for Afghans After Najibullah: Warring Clans and Deprivation

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Six months after the fall of the Najibullah Government, Afghanistan has degenerated into clan warfare that has terrorized and displaced hundreds of thousands of people and stripped the cities of medical care, schools and often electricity and water, relief workers in the country say.
Food and medical shortages are becoming critical as the harsh winter approaches, relief agencies and experts on the region say. They add that politically, Afghanistan is slipping steadily toward the anarchy that plagues famine-ravaged Somalia. 
 "What bothers those of us working for Afghanistan is that the whole country is becoming a major human tragedy, but it is completely forgotten," said Ekrem Beirerdinc, Unicef's director for the country, who has been in the United States for meetings at the United Nations to discuss the problems.
He said that while the world was watching the bombardment of Sarajevo in late August, 3,000 people in Kabul died within 24 hours in a rocket bombardment. About 600,000 to 700,000 people have been driven from the city in recent months. Since June, Mr. Beirerdinc said in an interview last week, he has not been able to use Unicef's office in the Afghan capital and has been forced to work from Pakistan.
 
Aid Agencies Cut Back
 Other international agencies and private organizations have curtailed operations in Afghanistan after attacks on their centers and the looting of equipment and supplies.
"The situation is quite similar to Somalia," said Barnett R. Rubin, an associate professor of political science at Columbia University and head of its Center for the Study of Central Asia. "There are large numbers of armed men in a variety of groups representing political parties or ethnic or tribal affiliations."
"Over the last decade, they have been hyper-armed, mainly because of the cold war but also because of competition for influence between Saudi Arabia and Iran," said Mr. Rubin, who recently returned from the region. "There is no central political authority."
"As in Somalia, armed groups are fighting over power and food," he said in an interview. "You can't have food unless you have power, and you can't keep power unless you can feed your followers."
Mr. Beirerdinc said that while Afghanistan might be able to fend off starvation longer than Somalia because it is a rich agricultural country, there are certain to be severe food shortages. Health problems are compounded by lack of medicine.
"Hospitals that had 20 doctors now have one," he said. "All the medicines are gone. Children do not go to school. Not in any of the cities. Nowhere."
"Winter is coming, and we need to stockpile food and supplies," Mr. Beirerdinc said. "But donors are not responding."
"The tragedy that these people are living deserves a little bit of attention, a little bit of sympathy, a little more commitment," he said.
 
Concern About Minefields
 At the Geneva offices of the International Committee of the Red Cross and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, there is growing concern over the fate of a million or more Afghans who have returned from exile in Pakistan and Iran to face minefields and unexploded ordnance in their fields as well as clan wars.
Since the withdrawal of aid from Moscow at the beginning of the year and the subsequent collapse of the Najibullah Government in April, rival ethnic or regional armies have been battling for control of Kabul, which is now held by a weak interim Government that is promising to convene a loya jirga, or traditional Afghan national assembly, at the end of this month.
The Government is backed by Tajik and Uzbek forces, the target of a renegade Pushtun army led by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, who was once heavily armed by the United States and Pakistan. There have also been destructive encounters in several cities between militant Islamic fighters of the Saudi-backed Wahabi sect and the Iranian-backed Shiite Muslim forces. Some groups have access to heavy weapons and aircraft that once belonged to the last Communist regime.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (94%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN (94%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); STARVATION (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); FAMINE (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); COLD WAR (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA EKREM BEIRERDINC (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



454 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: In Dispute;
Quayle and Gore Battle Devolves Into a Hand-to-Hand Fight About 4 Issues

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
While Vice President Dan Quayle and Senator Al Gore argued across a broad spectrum of issues in the Vice-Presidential debate this evening, they conducted the verbal equivalent of hand-to-hand combat over four specific points.
The most intense confrontations came on the issues of the environment, arms control, Government programs aiding Central American development and abortion 
 On the environment, The two men clashed over whether the Tennessee Senator had proposed raising $100 billion a year from American taxpayers to help solve global problems.
Mr. Quayle said the proposal was contained in "Earth in the Balance," Mr. Gore's best-selling book on the environment, and asserted it would put an impossible burden on Americans in difficult economic times.
"It's on page 304 in the book," Mr. Quayle said. "Is he going to disavow what's in his book?"
 
Truth on Both Sides
 "You've got it wrong," Mr. Gore responded. "There is no such proposal. What I have called upon is a cooperative venture with Europe and Asia."
There are elements of truth in the statements by both men.
In his book Mr. Gore calls for public works and research projects to deal with environmental problems around the world. Mr. Gore calls the initiative a global Marshall Plan, and says that with its financial resources, the United States should be responsible for organizing the project and paying a large share of its cost.
On page 304 of "Earth in the Balance" Mr. Gore does not specify how much the United States should contribute, but notes that an effort comparable to the Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe after World War II would mean the expenditure of $100 billion a year.
 
Dispute With Stockdale
 Mr. Gore notes in the book that such levels of spending would be impossible given the country's current economic distress and calls on the other industrialized countries to contribute.
The scientific validity of Mr. Gore's book also came under attack by James B. Stockdale, Ross Perot's running mate, who said that the Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate had exaggerated the threat from global warming.
Mr. Stockdale suggested that the danger of global warming was minimized by Dr. Roger Revelle, one of the first scientists to identify the greenhouse effect and Mr. Gore's professor at Harvard in the 1960's. Mr. Gore has said he drew heavily on Dr. Revelle's research in preparing his book.
Before his death in July 1991 Dr. Revelle said in a paper, "the scientific baseis for a greenhouse warming is too uncertain to justify drastic action at this time."
But Mr. Gore said that Dr. Revelle's daughter, Carolyn Revelle Hufbauer, had written an article published in The Washington Post last month that reported her father had not "renounced his belief in global warming" and did not advocate inaction on the issue.
On arms control, Mr. Gore seemed to take Mr. Quayle by surprise when he contended that the nuclear arms reduction agreement reached in principle by President Bush and President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia in June had collapsed because the Russians were reneging on destroying their most dangerous intercontinental missiles, the 10-warhead SS-18's.
Mr. Gore said that he thought that "President Bush made a very serious misstatement of fact in response to Ross Perot" in Sunday's debate among the candidates for President.
Mr. Quayle responded, "The President does have a commitment from Boris Yeltsin to eliminate the SS-18s."
American officials said this evening that the Russians did not want to renege on getting rid of the SS-18's, but did want to retain some SS-18 silos, which were also supposed to be destroyed. If the Russians were allowed to do that the silos would be used for missiles the Russians are allowed to retain, saving their country money, the American officials said.
 
Jobs and Foreign Aid
 On another issue, Mr. Gore asserted that the Bush Administration had a program subsidizing the export of jobs from the United States by giving financial assistance to companies in Latin America.
Mr. Gore said that workers at a textile plant in his state were among those who had lost jobs because of the program to promote development in countries paying lower wages. "You have used our tax dollars to subsidize the recruitment of U.S. companies to move overseas and throw Americans out of work," he said.
Mr. Quayle denied that there was any such program, saying, "Never have we ever, nor would we, support the idea of someone closing down a factory here and moving overseas."
The program, as described this evening by Congressional aides and State Department officials, is operated by the United States Agency for International Development. Companies in EL Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala have received money in the program, which is intended to stimulate economic development in Latin America and increase its imports from the United States.
But critics of the program, including labor union officials and Democrats in Congress have said it encourages companies to shift manufacturing operations from the United States.
A.I.D. officials defended the program, saying it increased Central American imports from the United States. A spokesman for the agency said, "It is not the policy of A.I.D. to shut down U.S. manufacturing operations and shift them to Central America."
In addition, Mr. Gore and Mr. Quayle clashed over abortion and especially over whether Mr. Gore had shifted his position on the issue.
"Talk about waffling around," Mr. Quayle said, adding that at one time, Mr. Gore, "had a pro-life position."
Mr. Gore said, "That is simply not true."
An examination of Mr. Gore's record shows that while he may not have been strongly opposed to abortion, his views on the issue have changed markedly. Like Mr. Clinton, he once accepted restrictions on abortion. Now he prefers to emphasize that abortion is a decision that should largely be left to a woman and her doctor.
Like Mr. Clinton, he once accepted restrictions on abortion. Now he prefers to emphasize that abortion is a decision that should largely be left to a woman and her doctor.
Mr. Clinton aides have acknowledged his "evolution" on the issue, but Mr. Gore has resisted suggestions that he once held different views.
President Bush, strongly opposed to abortion and endorsed by the leading anti-abortion groups, was years ago a supporter of abortion rights. Mr. Quayle has long been an opponent of abortion rights who in 1983 proposed a constitutional amendment to overturn the 1973 Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton watching the debate last night from a conference room in a hotel in Williamsburg, Va. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%); MARSHALL PLAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); TELEVISION; DEBATING; ENVIRONMENT; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT ; ABORTION POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); WORLD WAR II (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); BESTSELLERS (69%); 

PERSON: GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



455 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW YORK;
A Distant Conflict Lives In One Student's Heart

BYLINE: By Michael T. Kaufman

 BODY:
AFTER what he has seen and lived through in Croatia and Bosnia in the last 15 months, it is hard for Dragan Lozancic to concentrate on the analysis and enumeration of geared linkages, the subject of his doctoral thesis in mechanical engineering at Columbia University.
"I've finished my course work, I've finished my exams and all I need is the thesis," said the 29-year-old Bayside resident. "My parents are counting on me, my mentor at Columbia has been great and sympathetic and I know that all I need to do is work for six months or so and I should have a doctorate that would assure my future. But my mind is elsewhere. Most of me is still back there." 
 Back there is the war from which Mr. Lozancic returned at the start of the school year. He had gone to Croatia, which he originally left as a 9-year-old, in the summer of 1991 as fighting raged between Serbs and Croats. For a while he flirted with the idea of fighting but stopped short of enlisting in the Croatian forces when he realized he had no military skills to offer. Instead, aware that the world's perceptions of the conflict would be important, he organized a group of volunteers to help foreign journalists by leading them to scenes of battle and massacre and bringing them out again to safety.
Eventually he assembled 80 young people, most of them men and women of Croatian origin from the United States, Canada and Australia, to staff offices in Zagreb, Mostar, Dubrovnik and other smaller towns. Mr. Lozancic himself escorted television crews and news reporters.
"I hate to admit it but I became addicted to the danger and the drama," he said. "I remember the first time I was huddling down in a trench facing fire and one of the men I brought out, a journalist who had been in Vietnam, smiled at me and said, 'Don't you just love it!' I thought he was completely crazy but now I understand."
Since that initiation he spent many days and nights hugging a trembling earth as the sky was lit with explosions and tracer bullets. He has driven down back roads into Sarajevo and talked his way past checkpoints. He has been at almost every front in Croatia and Bosnia. In some villages and towns he was among the first to see the bodies of executed civilians. He has smelled rotting corpses. He has talked to survivors and escorted streams of refugees. In the midst of it all, Mr. Lozancic, a Roman Catholic, fell in love with a Muslim woman who is a student in Zagreb.
He carries a pack of photos with the scenes of battle, ruin and murder. As he shows them to friends it is clear that, for now, these images -- like the one of the rows of murdered civilians in the town of Voscin -- still define his reality far more than the challenges of his dissertation or the day-to-day routines of life in New York.
"What I hate most is when people ask, 'How was it?' " he said. "Maybe if I was a writer I could explain it. The people who ask are good people, really concerned, but I can see in their eyes that I'm not getting through." This failure of communication, he made clear, was not about who was to blame or what should be done but about more basic things, the quality of suffering, the quality of fear and the qualities of hope and valor.
"I speak with people who are sympathetic and even moved, but for them it is just one of many concerns," he said. "There is the election, the economy, job, family, shopping, vacations. If I ever write my dissertation I will have to be more like them and develop a similar variety of interests but right now it's hard.
"Since I've been back I've felt depressed and bored. I wake up every day with great energy and I've started lifting weights to get rid of it. Mostly I search out people who have seen some of the things I've seen. I keep calling people in Zagreb and Imotski, the little town on the Bosnian border where I lived for five months. Maybe I am experiencing what some Vietnam veterans felt when they came back, but I sleep well and haven't had bad dreams or the shakes or anything like that. By the time I saw what I saw, I was older than the average soldier in Vietnam.
"Meanwhile, I keep telling myself I have to finish the thesis and get the degree I started on five years ago. My mentor, Professor Ferdinand Freudenstein, has been fantastically supportive and I know he is rooting for me. Sometimes I feel I have to get that doctorate if only not to let him down. That and to repay my parents for their sacrifices. But then I also think, 'What am I doing here?' I should be back there, not necessarily to help, but just to be where people are having trouble."
For the moment, he is forcing himself to push ahead, however unenthusiastically, with the dissertation, setting weekly targets for himself. "If I can make it to December, I'll be O.K.," he said. "That's when my girlfriend is coming to visit."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "My mind is elsewhere," said Dragan Lozancic, who lived in Croatia but is trying to finish his doctorate at Columbia University. "Most of me is still back there." (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CROATIA (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (69%); VIET NAM (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; CROATIA CROATIA (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (69%); VIET NAM (52%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES WAR & CONFLICT (90%); JOURNALISM (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); ENGINEERING (72%); WRITERS (70%); REFUGEES (69%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T; LOZANCIC, DRAGAN DRAGAN LOZANCIC (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



456 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Pressure On to Stop Slide at G.M.

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Pressure is mounting for executives of the General Motors Corporation to take swifter, bolder action to stop further deterioration of the giant auto maker's ailing North American operations.
With the economy stalled and some union locals fighting attempts to consolidate jobs, G.M. is facing losses of $4 billion to $5 billion in North America this year, according to analysts, after losing more than $7 billion last year. 
 Fifteen new car and truck models have failed to stop the erosion of G.M.'s market share, which has dropped to 34.7 percent through the first nine months of the year, from 35.3 percent last year.
Since April, when outside directors demoted G.M.'s president, Lloyd E. Reuss, and replaced him with the vice chairman, Jack Smith, who was put in charge of North American operations, the board has been supervising G.M. management more closely.
 
Chairman Hospitalized
 This afternoon, amid reports that the board was putting pressure on management to get tough with G.M.'s labor unions, Robert C. Stempel, the chairman, was taken to a hospital in Washington after complaining of feeling ill, according to James Crellin, a G.M. spokesman. Reuters reported that emergency medical personnel had taken him to George Washington University Hospital, where he was admitted for observation, and that a hospital spokeswoman said he was listed in "serious but stable" condition. She declined to elaborate on the nature of his illness.
Mr. Stempel, who is 59 years old, had been meeting with a representative of the Conference Board, a business organization, at the Willard Hotel when he was stricken, Mr. Crellin said.
Financial markets have become restive about G.M., waiting for tangible signs of improvement that could signal the auto maker's recovery. After G.M.'s regular board meeting Oct. 5, investors speculated that major cost-cutting moves might be at hand or that G.M.'s management might be realigned once more.
"I see improvements in productivity, but they are very slow," said David Healy, automotive analyst for S. G. Warburg & Company.
Credit-rating agencies have warned that they will downgrade G.M. securities if the company cannot cut costs, a move that would add millions to G.M.'s borrowing costs.
"I never would have spoken about Chapter 11, but that is what G.M. will have to deal with someday soon if it can't get its house in order," a financial analyst, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, referring to a possible bankruptcy filing.
Strikes within the last two months at two G.M. factories, and labor unrest at others, have heightened fears that the United Automobile Workers union might be obstructing cost-cutting to prevent the loss of jobs.
The Washington Post, quoting unidentified sources, published an article this morning saying that G.M.'s outside directors were putting pressure on Mr. Stempel to get tough with the U.A.W. or face the loss of his own job.
But the article appeared to be based on false premises, since a G.M. official said he believed top leaders of the U.A.W. were not standing in the way of productivity improvements. Rather, G.M. told directors last week that the strikes were caused by isolated union locals angry about the loss of jobs. Moreover, negotiations with the U.A.W. have been the responsibility of Mr. Smith, G.M.'s president, not Mr. Stempel.
"We think the U.A.W. leadership would have preferred not to approve the strikes but was forced to do so for internal political reasons," said a G.M. labor relations expert, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Productivity increases have been accomplished at scores of G.M. plants without any fallout, he said. Privately, some U.A.W. officials confirmed this.
 
Company Response of Stempel
 In response to questions about whether G.M.'s outside directors were unhappy with labor relations and their impact on cost-cutting, Mr. Stempel issued a statement saying, "There is no disagreement between management and the outside G.M. directors on the position the corporation must take in bargaining with the unions representing our employees."
With respect to Mr. Stempel's job status, a spokesman said, "We are not going to comment on speculation or rumors that are detrimental to our business, our employees and our stockholders."
Last December, G.M. announced plans to close 21 plants and eliminate 74,000 jobs through the mid-1990's. But so far, G.M. has announced only 14 of the plants that will close, provoking fear at many other of G.M.'s 100 factories.
G.M. executives apparently cannot decide finally on which plants to eliminate until they decide which car and truck models to continue building.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert C. Stempel, chairman of General Motors, is reportedly being urged by G.M.'s outside directors to get tough with the United Automobile Workers union. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); S G WARBURG & CO LTD (63%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (55%); WASHINGTON POST CO (50%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); HOSPITALS (73%); NEW CAR MODELS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (64%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); EROSION (56%); PARAMEDICS (51%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P; STEMPEL, ROBERT C ROBERT C STEMPEL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



457 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: D'Amato Says He Has Plan For Arms-Plant Conversion

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN

 BODY:
Saying the military spending cuts his opponent has proposed would devastate New York State's economy, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato said yesterday that he was working on a plan to offer a 50 percent tax credit to military contractors to encourage them to convert their plants to peacetime production.
Later, however, Mr. D'Amato said he had not worked out practically any details of his plan, such as who would qualify and how the plan would be financed. He announced the plan before local television cameras in front of the Griffiss Air Force Base in Oneida County. 
 A spokesman for Attorney General Robert Abrams said that New York's economy was not as dependent on the military as other states, and said that Mr. D'Amato was one of the last to jump on the military conversion bandwagon when almost every politician knows that the end of the cold war means inevitable cuts in defense spending.
 
50% Cut in Military Budget
 Mr. D'Amato announced his proposal at the campaign stop in upstate New York after criticizing Mr. Abrams for his plans to cut the military budget by 50 percent in eight years.
Such cuts, Mr. D'Amato said, could threaten Griffiss's work force of 7,300.
"It would have an $800 million impact in loss of revenue in Oneida County, making this an economic wasteland," Mr. D'Amato said.
He said that more than 4,000 companies in the state did business with the military, employing more than 400,000 people.
"Bob Abrams would rather wipe out thousands of jobs in one fell swoop, devastate families across New York and crush this state's economy," he said.
In a testy exchange with reporters as he flew in a small commuter plane from upstate New York to Long Island, Mr. D'Amato refused to answer more questions about his plan.
A bill proposed by Representative Thomas J. Downey of Long Island to diversify military contractors offers companies a tax writeoff of 50 percent of the price of equipment purchases involved in converting their plants to nonmilitary production. The depreciation would continue for five years, according to the plan, which is pending approval.
Mr. D'Amato, however, could not provide such specific details of his proposal.
David Shapiro, deputy issues director for Mr. Abrams, said Mr. D'Amato was arriving late to the concept of military conversion, which has dominated discussions on future military spending. Several senators and representatives have proposed various plans for peacetime industrial production, but Mr. Shapiro said he was not familiar with any plans that Mr. D'Amato had been involved in.
 
Spending Less Next Year
 "Whether it is reduced a little or a lot, we are going to be spending less on defense next year," Mr. Shapiro said. "The real question is what are we going to do to make sure the impact of that is positive."
He also said that only 2.8 percent of New York's work force was dependent on military contracts, not a number that would mean economic devastation if defense spending is cut.
Carol Lessure, who tracks defense spending legislation for the Defense Budget Project, a nonpartisan research organization in Washington, also said that Mr. D'Amato's name was not familiar in the rolls of those Congressional representatives who have been proposing military conversion plans.
"It sounds like he borrowed the idea," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato speaking yesterday at a rally in Mineola, L.I. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ATOMIC ENERGY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (79%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); COLD WAR (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN) ALFONSE M D'AMATO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



458 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Dropout Rate Stays High, Since Children Work in Hard Times

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
Lydia Vera was only in the tenth grade when she dropped out of high school against the wishes of her unemployed father, who is a gardner, and her mother, a clerk in a grocery store. She began working at a fast-food restaurant for about $100 a week to help her parents.
"They didn't want me to drop out," said Ms. Vera, who is now 17 years and studying for her diploma in an independent study program in the Sweetwater, Calif., schools, which has started one of several recent efforts around the country to bring Hispanic dropouts back to school. "But I felt I needed to help them. I felt like the whole world was coming down on me because we were having a lot of economic problems." 
 Recessions affect all families, but for Hispanic families a weak economy pushes more youngsters out of school, aggravating what educators call a problem of crisis proportions. In 1991, 35.3 percent of all Hispanics between the ages of 16 to 24 were high school dropouts, roughly the same percentage as in 1972, according to an annual high school completion survey issued last month by the United States Education Department.
 
Others Staying in School
 By comparison, the rate for blacks in the same age group fell to 13.6 percent from 21.3 percent over the same time period. For whites, the rate for that age group declined to 8.9 percent from 12.3 percent.
"The scary thing is the gap is growing between Hispanics and blacks and whites," said Mary Jo Marion, a policy expert at the National of La Raza, an Hispanic policy organization based in Washington. "Part of the problem is economics, but that isn't the only problem."
Educators say the financial pressures combine with a culture that puts family first. Language barriers also contribute to the problem, as does the dearth of Hispanic teachers and counselors. Just 3 percent of all classroom teachers are Hispanic and the percentage of counselors is even smaller, leaving Hispanic students who have academic problems, and their parents, with few advocates they can comfortably confide in.
Students themselves assert school is unchallenging; some teachers agree, saying a preponderance of Hispanic students attend classes in poor school systems, which cannot afford the best teachers, up-to-date textbooks and technology.
The dropout rate among Hispanic students has improved during times of relative prosperity and has tended to spike upward in times of economic distress.
In 1991, Hispanic households earned an average of $22,691, according to the Census Bureau, compared with $30,126 for all households in the United States, prompting many young people to leave school to supplement their parents' wages.
 
Dropping Out to Work
 "One of the major reasons our kids drop out is to get a job," said Robin Willner, executive director of strategic planning for the New York City public school system, the nation's largest with nearly one million students, 35 percent of them Hispanic.
Anthony J. Trujillo, the Superintendent of Schools for the Ysleta Independent School District in El Paso, said: "Hispanic culture has always valued education up to a point," but when a family's income is threatened by layoffs of one or both parents, "the youngster can become part of the earning power of the family. We've had problems with the other issues, but economics is the big problem."
Many of the same cultural and economic issues have been faced by blacks and, more recently, Asians. The dropout rate for black students, however, has been significantly reduced in large part by efforts by black community leaders and parents, who have pushed for more black teachers and counselors. There are more similarities between Asian and Hispanic people, both of whom face language barriers.
Although neither group is monolithic, American-born Asians tend to be better educated and tend to earn more money than United States-born Hispanic people -- including Mexican-Americans, Puerto Ricans and Cuban-Americans, according to Federal income and census data, and thus are more likely to instill in their children the importance of education. Asian immigrants also tend to be better educated than Hispanic immigrants. And Asians have generally have faced less discrimination than other minority groups, sociologists and anthropologists say, leaving their communities less scarred and giving Asian students a more stable family and community base.
While both groups tend to have strong family units, many Asian families also consider themselves to be members of a larger family, the community itself. As a result, Asian students tend to stay in school even when family finances are strained because to drop out brings dishonor not only to the immediate family but also to the community, say educators who work with both groups. They add that the notion of community as a sort of extended family is less common among Hispanic groups.
"What motivates the Latino to drop out of school to contribute to the general welfare of the family is love," said Dr. Robert Harrington, director of instructional services for the San Francisco Unified School District, where he has worked with both Hispanic and Asian students for 33 years. "What motivates the Asian to stay in school is also love for family. It's just a different view of the world by two different cultures."
And so schools in many places find themselves struggling with family finances and the Hispanic culture that sometimes combine to undermine students. Lydia Vera, the California student who left Sweetwater High School last year, is a case in point.
 
Now, Back in School
 Now she is back in school, finishing her high school degree through an independent study program. The school has created eight learning centers, where up to 20 students come for two hours a day, which can be scheduled around jobs. The students work at their own pace to complete degree requirements.
The district has assigned many of its best teachers to the learning centers and installed the latest technology, and has given the centers virtually all of the $3,500 aid for each enrolled student that the district receives from the state.
"This is a great second chance for kids," said Patrick Judd, a teacher at the Del Ray High School learning center, where Ms. Vera attends school. "It's important that we provide them with an environment where they can be successful."
Other programs lean heavily on working to involve parents and to help solve family programs to keep students in school. In the Ysleta Independent School District, parents have been hired by the school system to help Spanish-speaking parents navigate school bureaucracies.
"These parents don't speak English, and they are afraid to come to school," said Rachel Gonzales, a 27-year-old who is the parent liaison at Cedar Grove Elementary School. "The language barrier hurts."
Mrs. Gonzales is part counselor, part social worker for Cedar Grove students and parents, many of whom live in substandard housing, often without telephones. She signed up one family for food stamps last year after a fifth-grade student complained about stomach pains from hunger. She persuaded a shoe store to donate new shoes for another young boy, who wore his older brother's hand-me-down shoes three sizes too large.
"I've seen progress," she said. "If I can help the children by getting the basic services their families need, the children will do better in school and will be less likely to drop out later on."
 
Program Adapted Elsewhere
 The Ysleta program has been adopted in some variation by the Los Angeles school system, which also has established special schools or classes to help at-risk students.
In Dade County, Fla., the Cuban American National Council with the Dade County Public Schools spent $20,000 to set up institutes in Little Havana and Hialeah, a Miami suburb, to pay special attention to students at risk of dropping out.
The school system absorbs the daily expenses for the institutes, each of which has about 100 students, with one teacher for every 17 to 25 students, far lower than the public schools in the area.
"There's no magic to what we're doing," said Javier Bray, coordinator of the institutes. "We give them support, and we nurture them in a loving, caring environment." The approach is paying off: for the first time since the school in Little Havana was founded five years ago, not one student dropped out last year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: To solve high drop-out rates among Hispanic students, the school system in El Paso uses parents as liaisons between the schools and other parents whose family problems threaten their children's education. Rachel Gonzales, right, told Hortencia Chavez last week about a local food bank. (Bruce Berman for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Dropping Out" shows the number of Hispanics, Blacks and Whites age 16 to 24 who are not in school and who have never received a high school degree. from '75-'90. (Source: U.S. Department of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; DROPOUTS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); EDUCATION (SECONDARY) SCHOOL DROP OUTS (92%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INDEPENDENT STUDY (73%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); FAST FOOD (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (63%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D LYDIA VERA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



459 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Froelich Rainey, 85, A Museum Director And an Archeologist

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
Froelich G. Rainey, an archeologist, museum director and creator of an award-winning television program, died on Sunday at a hospital in Cornwall, England. He was 85 years old and lived in Cornwall.
He died of cancer, his family said. 
 As a young field researcher, Dr. Rainey found major artifacts supporting the theory that early humans migrated across the Bering Strait to America. He was among the first to find bone shafts, used as lances to kill animals hunted for food.
He helped to develop new technology, including aerial photography and magnetic detectors to find artifacts, and radiocarbon and heat analyses to date them.
From 1947 to 1976 Dr. Rainey headed the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania. He revived the museum from its Depression era and World War II doldrums, expanding its budget and collections. Under his leadership, the museum sponsored 230 expeditions in six continents, including the ancient Greek community of Sybaris; Ban Chiang, Thailand, and its Bronze Age discoveries, and Tikal, Guatemala, with its Mayan treasures.
 
Award-Winning TV Program
 Adapting the museum world to modern communications to reach larger audiences, Dr. Rainey developed Expedition magazine and a Peabody Award-winning television program, "What in the World." In the program he moderated a panel of experts trying to identity artifacts, while viewers were given clues to the answer.
Dr. Rainey was a past president of the American Association of Museums and the International Congress of Anthropology.
He was born in Black River Falls, Wis., and grew up on a cattle ranch in Montana. In his youth he worked his way around the world doing odd jobs. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago, and doctorates in English from the American School in France and in anthropology from Yale University.
In World War II, Dr. Rainey served on the Board of Economic Warfare, ran a mission in Ecuador to highjack bark gathered for the Germans for use as quinine and worked for the State Department.
His marriage to the former Penelope Lewis ended in divorce.
Surviving are his wife of 17 years, Marina; a daughter, Penelope Rainey of Philadelphia; a sister, Viva Rainey of California, and two grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (92%); ECUADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); THAILAND (55%); FRANCE (51%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); BERING SEA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (54%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (54%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (92%); ECUADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); THAILAND (55%); FRANCE (51%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); BERING SEA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); DEATHS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); MAMMALS (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); CLASSICS (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); CANCER (72%); BUDGETS (68%); 

PERSON: RAINEY, FROELICH GLADSTONE; LAMBERT, BRUCE PENELOPE RAINEY (93%); FROELICH G RAINEY (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



460 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
High Court to Rule on Admissibility Of Scientific Evidence in U.S. Courts

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Opening the door to a far-reaching debate over the role of science in the courtroom, the Supreme Court agreed today to decide how widely accepted a scientific process or theory must be for it to be admissible as evidence in Federal court.
Courts around the country are wrestling with this question in both criminal and civil trials, over issues that include the identification of suspects through DNA fingerprinting to the links between toxins in the workplace and occupational illnesses. 
 In the case the Justices accepted today, the parents of two children born with birth defects are appealing the refusal of two Federal courts in California to let a jury hear evidence linking the defects with the antinausea drug Bendectin, which the mothers took while pregnant.
A Federal district court in Los Angeles, in a ruling upheld last December by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, concluded that the evidence purportedly linking the drug to the children's shortened or missing limbs was not widely enough accepted in the scientific community to meet the standard for admissibility in court. Criticizing the research technique used by the plaintiffs' scientific experts, the courts awarded judgment without trial to the drug's manufacturer, Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals.
 
Conflicting Federal Standards
 Federal courts have taken essentially two different approaches to the question of scientific evidence. Some, like the courts in this case, require the evidence or scientific technique at issue have reached the level of general acceptance. The approach is known asthe Frye rule, after a Federal appellate decision, Frye v. United States, that first articulated it in 1923.
Other courts have applied a less rigorous standard, based on their interpretation of a rule of evidence that Congress adopted for the Federal courts in 1975. This rule, Rule 702 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, essentially permits experts who are qualified in their fields to present their conclusions to a jury, even if those conclusions are idiosyncratic or outside the consensus in the field, if the testimony is relevant to the case and will help the jury "to understand the evidence or to determine a fact."
At its simplest, the legal question for the Court in the case it accepted today, Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, No. 92-102, is whether Congressional adoption of Rule 702 displaced or superseded the judicially created Frye rule.
But underlying this dry formulation is a lively debate over some important issues of judicial policy. How different is scientific evidence from other kinds of evidence -- the complex economic theories in a big antitrust case, for example -- that are routinely brought before juries? To what extent should judges be gate keepers, screening out what has come to be known as junk science from naive jurors who might be otherwise be misled, overly awed, or moved by compassion for plaintiffs? Conversely, to what extent should juries be permitted to serve their traditional role as fact finders?
 
Other Chances Turned Down
 In the last few years, the Supreme Court has turned down several opportunities to address the scientific evidence question. Just last week, in fact, the Justices refused to hear a challenge by a convicted rapist to the admissibility of DNA evidence.
In that case, Jakobetz v. United States, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, used the flexible standard of Rule 702 but also observed that DNA fingerprinting had won sufficient acceptance to be admissible under the higher standard of the Frye rule as well. That conclusion made the question of what standard to use almost incidental, a fact that probably dissuaded the Court from hearing the appeal.
But the case the Court accepted today presents the question in a direct manner. The weight of scientific evidence, based on epidemiological studies, appears to support Merrell Dow's position that Bendectin did not cause the limb-shortening birth defects that have led to a number of lawsuits against Merrell Dow, which has quit making the drug. A number of courts have dismissed the lawsuits. The plaintiffs in this case wanted to present an expert witness who had reached the opposite conclusion after making a new analysis of the existing studies.
In his opinion for the appeals court, Judge Alex Kozinski said the technique of reanalyzing existing studies could be acceptable only if the resulting conclusions were persuasive enough to have been accepted for publication in a scientific journal in which articles are subjected to peer review.
In their Supreme Court appeal, the plaintiffs accused the appeals court of a "blatant abuse of judicial power" in "trampling over" the decision of Congress to make the courts more open to scientific evidence.
Merrell Dow, arguing in support of the appeals court's approach, said a high standard for admissibility of scientific evidence was necessary to protect jurors "from scientific shamans who, in the guise of their purported expertise, are willing to testify to virtually any conclusion to suit the needs of the litigant with resources sufficient to pay their retainer."
The Supreme Court's eventual decision, expected next spring, will apply only to the Federal courts. The state courts are also dealing with the issue. Fewer than 10 states now apply the Frye rule, while the others take a more flexible approach.
There were also these other developments at the Court today:
 
Appeal by Convicted Spy
 Without comment, the Court refused to hear an appeal filed by Jonathan J. Pollard, the former Navy intelligence analyst who pleaded guilty six years ago to spying for Israel.
Mr. Pollard, who received a life sentence, was challenging his sentence and seeking to withdraw his guilty plea on the ground that Government prosecutors misled him into believing that they would emphasize his cooperation in the investigation when they gave the judge their recommendation for a sentence. Instead, he asserted, the prosecutors characterized him as untrustworthy and lacking in remorse.
 
Court Reporters' Immunity
 The Court agreed to decide whether court stenographers were entitled to complete immunity from suit for errors in preparing transcripts of courtroom proceedings.
The case is an appeal by a convicted bank robber who hired a court reporter to prepare a transcript of his two-day trial. He needed the transcript for his appeal. But the stenographer, saying she had lost her tape recording and notes, failed to provide it and finally produced a partial version after three years.
The Ninth Circuit, affirming a Federal district court in Tacoma, Wash., dismissed the man's lawsuit against the reporter on the ground that the absolute immunity that applies to judges also applies to those serving other functions in the courtroom. The Federal appeals courts are split on this question. The case is Antoine v. Byers & Anderson, No. 91-7604.
 
Copyright Case
 Without comment, the Court refused to hear an appeal by Jeff Koons, the artist who was found by two lower courts to have violated Federal copyright law by having a photograph of eight German Shepherd puppies turned into a sculpture.
The sculpture, of which Mr. Koons sold three copies for a total of $367,000, was a close copy of "Puppies," a copyrighted and widely distributed photograph taken by Art Rogers. Mr. Koons had the sculpture fabricated at a studio in Ortessi, Italy, to which he had sent a notecard displaying Mr. Rogers' photograph with the copyright notice torn off. When Mr. Rogers learned of the sculpture, he filed suit.
In his appeal, Koons v. Rogers, No. 92-297, Mr. Koons argued that his sculpture was valid as a "parody" and social comment and should be considered a "fair use" of the copyrighted photograph.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) ; MERRELL DOW PHARMACEUTICALS INC MERRELL DOW PHARMACEUTICALS LTD (55%); UNITED STATES COURT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) ; MERRELL DOW PHARMACEUTICALS INC UNITED STATES COURT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA ; ISRAEL UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; COURTS; TRIALS; DEOXYRIBONUCLEIC ACID (DNA); FINGERPRINTING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BENDECTIN (DRUG); BIRTH DEFECTS ; NAVIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; ESPIONAGE; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); STENOGRAPHY; IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION ; PHOTOGRAPHY; DOGS; SCULPTURE; ART; COPYRIGHTS SCIENCE NEWS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DNA (90%); APPEALS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); FINGERPRINTING (77%); GENETIC SCREENING (76%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (76%); DNA TESTING (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (74%); NAVIES (74%); ESPIONAGE (74%); IMMUNITY (73%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); CRIMINAL DEFENSES (57%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA ; POLLARD, JONATHAN JAY ; KOONS, JEFF; ROGERS, ART

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



461 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Sees Risks Globally

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
In his first major speech since the currency crisis in Europe last month, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has warned that global financial transactions may be too fast and too complex for senior bank managers to understand, and he called on governments to step up their supervision of international banks.
In the text of a speech to be delivered Wednesday in Tokyo, Mr. Greenspan said that the transition from manual, paper-based banking systems to split-second, electronic systems "may not have been managed by those sufficiently sensitive to credit and risk exposures." 
 Although he did not refer explicitly to the currency crisis, he was clearly addressing the issue in saying that only after the development of high-speed, electronic banking and funds transfers "did we all become aware that the financial systems were at risk with serious implications for world markets."
 
Concern About Offshore Banks
 Mr. Greenspan expressed concern that many banks had decided to move operations to offshore centers to avoid tough regulation. He urged governments, both where these banks are based and in the offshore centers, to regulate them more thoroughly.
Mr. Greenspan warned that senior managers of financial institutions must develop a good understanding of the increasingly complex instruments and risks they work with. He said, "We must all guard against a situation in which the designers of financial strategies lack the experience to evaluate the attendant risks, and their experienced senior managers are too embarrassed to admit they do not understand the new strategies."
He said that with money moving around the world so rapidly, central bankers must pay attention to the development of "intraday interest rates," that is to say, separate overnight and daytime interest rates. He said that overnight lending rates set by central banks could disrupt financial markets if those rates were appreciably different from daytime rates.
 
A Deal With Japan?
 He noted that Japan's move to deregulate interest rates would remove the incentive of Japanese banks to move operations to other countries, thus reducing the "reported size" of Japanese banks in offshore markets.
Mr. Greenspan met today with Japan's Finance Minister, Tsutomu Hata, and the governor of Japan's central bank, Yasushi Mieno, to discuss monetary and economic conditions, including the problem of deflation.
Many analysts speculated that Mr. Greenspan's visit might be tied to a coordinated interest rate cut in which Washington calls on Tokyo to reduce rates first to keep the dollar from weakening further.
The Fed chairman reaffirmed his commitment to price stability, asserting that inflation can undermine troubled banks.
"Perhaps the most important development that has occurred in recent years has been the shift from an environment of inflationary expectations," he said, "toward an environment of lower inflation. It is important that that progress continue."
Mr. Greenspan said price stability contributed to financial stability and was "the most important contribution that central bankers can make to the general welfare." He said price stability does not imply literal stability in price indexes, but "does require low, measured inflation."
 
Technological Risks
 Mr. Greenspan said that new technologies, new contracts and new instruments brought with them risks that need to be understood clearly. He said, for example, that it was highly difficult to understand the credit and market risks of nonstandardized contracts. He added that relying on advanced technology to design new contracts might be unwise because computers could not be counted on completely to replace informed analytical judgments.
Another problem, Mr. Greenspan said, is that a large number of participants in the market for the new complex financial instruments are either unregulated nonbank financial institutions and or nonfinancial institutions.
The Fed chief also said that assessing a bank's capital alone was not a sufficient measure of an institution's financial strength. He said supervisors must assess the total financial resources of an institution, its risk management procedures and controls, and both the credit and noncredit risks inherent in its assets and liabilities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERNET BANKING (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); RELOCATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); DEFLATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BANK FAILURES (72%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



462 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Public Colleges Rises 10%

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The cost of attending public colleges and universities has increased at a double-digit rate for the second straight year, far ahead of state and Federal financial aid, the College Board reported yesterday.
The cost of a college education ranges from $321 a year at the public, two-year College of the Mainland in Texas City, Tex., to $24,380 at the private Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, N.Y. 
 Average tuition and fees at four-year public universities and colleges rose 10 percent to $2,315 this fall, the College Board reported. Room and board brings the total to $5,841. Last year's increase was 13 percent.
The cost of private institutions has been increasing at a slower rate, partly in response to competition for a dwindling number of students. At four-year private universities and colleges, tuition and fees now average $10,498, and at private two-year colleges, $5,621, representing increases of 7 percent and 6 percent respectively, at a time when the inflation rate was 3.1 percent. Room and board adds an average of $4,575 to the cost at private four-year colleges.
To avert still higher increases, many colleges and universities are cutting programs, laying off some faculty and staff members and deferring maintenance expenditures.
Federal, state and institutional financial aid rose less than 8 percent last year, and the maximum amount available from the Federal Government's principal grant program actually fell to $2,300 from $2,400.
More students and their families are borrowing for college. In 15 years, loans have increased from 17 percent of financial aid to 50 percent, the Department of Education says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLLEGE BOARD; SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE; COLLEGE OF THE MAINLAND (TEX) THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLLEGE BOARD; SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE; COLLEGE OF THE MAINLAND (TEX) THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; TUITION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); TUITION FEES (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



463 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Dow Rises 27.01 on Hopes of Lower Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Hopes of lower interest rates and some surprisingly high earnings reports helped stock prices advance yesterday for the second strong gain in two days.
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, which rose 37.83 points on Monday, gained another 27.01 points yesterday, to 3,201.42. The market had been rallying since the Dow reached its lowest close of the year on Friday at 3,136.58. 
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about 13 to 9 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The rise both days came on moderate volume. A total of 186.7 million shares changed hands yesterday on the Big Board, up from 126.7 million in Monday's light Columbus Day session.
"All in all, the market is still cautious," Hildegard Zagorski, a market analyst at the Prudential Securities Company, said.
A meeting of the Federal Reserve Chairman, Alan Greenspan, with finance officials in Tokyo helped speculation that a Japanese rate cut might be announced at a news conference scheduled for today. Also, rumors ran through the market that Germany's central bank was preparing to cut rates at a policy board meeting tomorrow.
If Germany and Japan were to lower rates, the United States central bank might have room to reduce lending rates.
Ms. Zagorski also said there was substantial program buying and purchasing by short-sellers that helped the market move higher. The market's recent weakness had driven many investors to bet prices would fall. When prices rose, the short-sellers had to buy to counter their oversold positions and cut their losses. Short-sellers take advantage of market drops by selling borrowed stocks. When it comes time to repay the loan, they hope to be able to buy the stocks at a depressed price.
Several companies announced strong profit increases for the third quarter, raising their stock prices. Merrill Lynch rose 3 1/2, to 51 1/2, and Paine Webber finished 1 3/8 higher at 18 3/8. Other brokerage stocks also rose.
Pepsico announced stronger earnings and its stock rose 3/4, to 38 5/8. Motorola's earnings report late Monday carried over to an increase of 1 1/2, to 91.
Intel was the most active Nasdaq over-the-counter stock, falling 1 1/4, to 64 5/8. Microsoft rose 3/8, to 84 1/4, on strong earnings news.
The New York Stock Exchange's composite index rose 1.03 point, to 225.31. On the American Stock Exchange, the market value index finished 0.85 point higher at 366.83.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (52%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PEPSICO INC (52%); INTEL CORP (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



464 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Rolling Home: Weary Allure of the Last-Chance Train

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

 BODY:
It was late, just out of Grand Central, the last train to New Haven. The conductor did not seem to notice the 40-ounce beer bottle rolling at the feet of three teen-agers. He politely coaxed the fare from a young Wall Streeter, who was beyond drunk and perhaps for the first time in his life unable to manipulate money.
"Where is your wallet?" the conductor said loudly, the way people speak to children and foreigners. "Sir, your wallet!" 
 Two hours later, at 3:38 A.M. at the end of the line, the conductor walked through six cars littered with a collection of commuter refuse peculiar to late-night trains from New York to suburbia: one pair of black pumps, an empty bottle of 1990 Chardonnay, a puddle of vomit covered by a checked handkerchief.
 
Uniformity Gives Way
 The 1:30 to New Haven is not quite a rolling drunk tank. But as on other late trains out of the city, the dull daytime uniformity of blue suits, dress skirts and rustling newspapers becomes something chattier, ruder and decidedly less staid. Late-night partyers sit next to weary-eyed business executives, who sit next to late-shift workers, who sit next to people who try to avoid other people who normally do not make a morning commute.
On one recent trip, Jonathan Falk, a 36-year-old economist from Rye, N.Y., ooked warily at a young man in a red sweater making a boozy, sort-of pass at a 24-year-old advertising buyer in the next seat. The young man was not quite offensive, and Mr. Falk, both concerned and amused, said the scene was typical.
"I love this train," he said. "In the morning there is no interaction. In the evening before midnight there is no interaction. On the 1:30 train there is always something going on."
Despite an occasional carnival atmosphere that makes some riders uneasy, the last train is not especially dangerous. During the last two years, there have been only a handful of incidents, most minor. The most recent was an armed robbery last month during which a gun went off on the train but did not injure anyone. The gumnan escaped and has not been arrested.
Metro-North officials say, as do Long Island Rail Road officials, that the late trains are generally not too rowdy, except after concerts, big sporting events or special occasions like the St. Patrick's Day Parade.
Rather, the train's on-the-edge allure rests in a certain casualness. There are 113 red and blue seats in each of six cars, but they are rarely full, either when they pull out of Grand Central Terminal or arrive in New Haven 27 stops later.
Jonathan Thompson, a 34-year-old hotel worker, likes the train because he can drink an after-work beer in relative peace. One man felt comfortable paying his $4 fare in dimes, nickels and pennies jammed into a cigarette box. Others slept, slumped across the seats, trusting the conductors to yell out when their stop arrived.
 
Quirky Behavior
 "You get to know the characters," said Steve Lichty, 29, who even at 2:30 A.M. looked every inch the banker he is. "There is this guy we call Antiseptic Man who literally takes out a bottle of alcohol and cleans the entire seat before he sits down."
"Then there is Rib Man," said Mr. Richty, who often works late. "Rib Man always has a little red plastic bag that you get in Chinatown. He eats ribs and then throws the bones on the floor. Then he walks around."
Casey Shain, a 35-year-old art director from Guilford, Conn., has noticed something else.
"There is a lot of, like, uh, sex, really," he said on a trip two weeks ago. (Two passengers, who claimed first-hand knowledge, confirmed this on a later trip.) "People are kind of bold. And for every bold one, there is an oblivious one."
Mr. Shain, who works at a Manhattan electronics magazine, is something of an expert on the last train to Connecticut. He takes the late train, usually three times a week, by choice and he is working on a book about the oddities he has seen over the years.
"I'd rather see this bunch of deadbeats than upper-middle-class scummy yuppies desperately trying to beat each other up," said Mr. Shain, whose five-hour daily commute means most of his social life takes place on the New Haven line. "They are just more interesting than the people who wear the same raincoats and the same shoes and all get into Volvos."
At 1:30 last Saturday morning, the train left from Track 21 in a Grand Central Terminal that was still and empty, save for the late-night commuters, a few homeless people and 47 people from Montclair, N.J., touring the station. ("There are restrooms under that archway," said 81-year-old Howard Fox, the tour guide. "You can try them if you want to." There were no takers. Despite some confusion, no one accidentally boarded the train to Connecticut.
 
A Typical Crowd
 The train began to fill up with a typical crowd: the three teen-agers returning to Larchmont, N.Y., after not getting into a bar; a couple going home to West Haven after a Frank Sinatra and Shirley MacLaine concert.
Joe Tiano, a 30-year-old machinist from New Haven, had just spent an evening around Times Square. He was not happy about spending the next two hours and eight minutes cut off from his two sources of bliss.
"You can't smoke on it," Mr. Tiano said. "That bothers me a lot. And they don't have bar cars, which is against my religion. I need my bar cars and I need my cigarettes." Mr. Tiano fell asleep promptly.
"Local train to New Haven," came blaring from the public address system. "Making all local stops."
One of two conductors, Bruce Berthel, 42, a 20-year railroad worker, said that the train has been quieter recently, mostly because of the two Metro-North police officers who have been patrolling the train more regularly since the robbery last month. But, he said, the 1:30 has the worst reputation on the New Haven line by far.
"You can have trouble on any train," he said. "But it's just due to the fact of the time of night and that there are probably more drunks on here."
 
A Mostly Quiet Trip
 In fact the train was mostly quiet as it chugged north, stopping at a station every five minutes or so. Five largish teen-agers whooped for a while. One couple got quite cozy. Some people drank beer, others slept. Someone threw up on the floor, but this being Connecticut, it was done discreetly.
In the great tradition of the late-night train, Steve Gillespie, 22, who had been stranded at a bar in Westchester, struck up a conversation with Gary Grider, 23, and his girlfriend, Aimee Byrd, 21. Mr. Grider, who is from Kansas City, Mo., has the long blond hair and permanent sunglasses to prove he is in a rock band.
It was his first last train to New Haven. In fact, it was his first train ride since kindergarten. He fit right in.
"We're not in Kansas anymore," he said. "I'm going to click my heels," he added with Dorothy-like daintiness, hoisting up his black cowboy boots, "and I'm going to be in a big pile of beer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We're not in Kansas anymore," said Gary Grider, right, of Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Grider and his girlfriend, Aimee Byrd, were riding the 1:30 A.M. train out of Grand Central to New Haven, frequented by partyers and weary-eyed executives. Despite a carnival atmosphere that makes some riders uneasy, the train is not especially dangerous. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAVEN (CONN) UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; COMMUTING; GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL (NYC); LIQUOR ADOLESCENTS (90%); TRAINS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (87%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (78%); CHILDREN (76%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (74%); SUBURBS (69%); PARADES & MARCHES (66%); HOTEL STAFF (65%); ROBBERY (60%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%); ARRESTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); 

PERSON: CASEY SHAIN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



465 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Station Has Seen Last Train but Not Last Chance

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Soaring 271 feet above the wood-frame houses and church steeples of Buffalo's East Side, Central Terminal was once an Art Deco beacon visible for 15 miles. Today it is a dark and crumbling monument to better times.
The last passenger train departed 13 years ago this month. Since then the building has deteriorated despite plans to transform it into apartments, stores or even a giant wedding hall. 
 Recently, momentum has grown to save the building whose concourse was big enough to seat 2,200 people for dinner when it was dedicated in 1929. Last Sunday a far smaller crowd, fewer than 100 people, turned out to discuss the issue at the Polish Community Center, several blocks from the old station.
Bernice Lasota Muszynski, who remembered going to the terminal as a teen-ager in the years just before World War II, said: "We'd go to the cafeteria and have Danish. We used to buy little trinkets in the shops."
 
'It Was Massive, Beautiful'
 She kissed her fiance goodbye at the terminal in 1941 when he shipped out for an Army artillery unit in Europe. She returned there three years later to welcome him back.
"It was massive, beautiful," she recalled. "The ceilings were so tall. And it was very busy. It was always busy. It was open 24 hours a day."
Completed in 1929, the station mirrored the city's mood, said Susan A. McCartney, president of the Preservation Coalition of Erie County. "It's an almost egotistical, 'we're the best' kind of imagery," she said. "There are cities now that even with the recession feel like they walk on water. Buffalo felt that way."
Central Terminal's bronze doors are gone. In the restaurant, which had a W-shaped black-glass counter, nothing but rubble remains. The concourse is strewn with broken glass and masonry. The buffalo statue that people once used as a meeting point lies smashed alongside a gutted cigar stand. Above it, lettering on a cracked marble panel reads, "To Trains."
 
Trains Just Pass It By
 In 1929 the station handled 200 trains a day. Today, the few passenger trains that run between New York City and Chicago pass the old terminal slowly, stopping at a squat suburban station where the seats are plastic and the food comes from vending machines.
"This is what this country does to its landmarks," City Councilman David A. Franczyk said after climbing through a hole in a door to tour the old terminal last week.
Mr. Franczyk is too young to remember the golden age of railroads. But he shares with many people here a sad sense of what the station meant to their city and what its current condition implies. "It's sort of like a vestige of America's industrial past, a glorious past," he said. "Back then they had vision, they had idealism."
Buffalo is by no means the first city to look at an old rail station and see both past and future. In Washington, in Cincinnati, in Indianapolis, in St. Louis, stations have found new life as museums, as homes for stores, restaurants, and hotels, and even as transportation centers again.
 
A City in Decline
 In Buffalo, the decline of the terminal closely mirrors that of the city itself. The city's population, 525,000 and growing when Central Terminal opened, is down to 328,000.
The New York Central Railroad built Central Terminal for $14 million. Its corporate descendant sold the building in 1979 to Anthony T. Fedele, a local builder, for $75,000.
Mr. Fedele planned a 150-room hotel, offices and restaurants, but he could not find investors. The Polish Community Center held some dances at the terminal and the building was placed on the National Register of Historic Places, but little else happened. Mr. Fedele fell behind on taxes, and the city put the building up for auction in 1986. Thomas Telesco bought Central Terminal for $100,000, and talked about turning it into a banquet hall and using it as a station on a proposed high-speed rail line linking New York and Toronto.
Now the terminal is at the center of a legal battle between Mr. Telesco and two developers who are trying to buy the building. Bernard Tuchman said he and his uncle, Samuel Tuchman, have paid Mr. Telesco $350,000 of a total $1.3 million in a purchase-option arrangement for the building. Mr. Tuchman said, however, that over the last two years Mr. Telesco has violated the agreement by selling the building's interior fixtures.
 
Expecting to Win Title
 Mr. Telesco could not be reached for comment. His lawyer, John L. Martin, did not return calls.
The Tuchmans' lawyer, Gregory L. Davis, said he expected his clients to win title to the building within the next three months. What then?
The Tuchmans want to put apartments, offices and stores into the terminal, but they need investors. Bernard Tuchman said the estimated cost was $81 million four years ago.
The City Council in July created a citizens' panel to make recommendations on the terminal. Mr. Franczyk conceded that the cash-strapped city is in no position to pay for restoration, but he said Buffalo must find some way to help save the building.
"We've got to show that we haven't lost our vision," he said. "We have to fight for something like this. It's important to Buffalo. The decline has got to stop."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We have to fight for something like this," said David A. Franczyk, a City Councilman in Buffalo, standing in Central Terminal.; A portion of the decaying terminal building. (Photographs by Mickey Osterreicher for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); DENMARK (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; BUFFALO (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); DENMARK (75%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES TRENDS (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); TRAINS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ARMIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



466 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Report Backs Rail Projects

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
A high-speed rail system connecting New York City and Buffalo could create more than 220,000 jobs with a payroll of some $11 billion, according to a report by a bipartisan Congressional group.
But the full cost of developing and maintaining such a system is still unknown, said the report, which was produced by the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition. 
 The costs of building the high-speed rail system could range from $8 million to $32.2 million a mile. Magnetic-levitation systems, in which cars ride on a cushion of air created by super magnets, could cost from $11 million to $63 million per mile, the study found.
The analysis, which was based on other high-speed rail studies performed by the Coalition of Northeast Governors and several states, argues for more Federal support of high-speed rail development.
High-speed rail could have important environmental and economic benefits, while alleviating gridlock on highways, according to the study.
In the Northeast corridor, between Boston and Washington, drivers and their passengers experienced 2.7 billion hours of vehicle delays in 1985, the report said. By 2005, that number is expected to approach 12 billion hours, the study said.
High-speed rail systems are in various stages of development in the Northeast corridor and five other states: Ohio, Texas, Florida, California and Nevada. Except for the Northeast corridor project, all are being paid for by state governments and private industry, the group said.
The New York State Thruway Authority is considering a system that would use powerful magnets to levitate cars above rails and propel them to run beside the thruway. Another route, using Thruway and Conrail rights of way, would run through Syracuse and Rochester, and is being studied by the state's Energy Research and Development Authority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST-MIDWEST CONGRESSIONAL COALITION ENERGY RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL (53%); ENERGY RESEARCH&DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (61%); NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST-MIDWEST CONGRESSIONAL COALITION ENERGY RESEARCH&DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (61%); NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; BUFFALO (NY); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; LABOR HIGH SPEED TRAINS (96%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (90%); RAILROAD MAINTENANCE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); MAGNETIC LEVITATION (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); ENERGY RESEARCH (69%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



467 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Sprint's 3d-Quarter Profits Grew by 13.2%

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Apparently profiting from a marketing gamble in the second quarter, the Sprint Corporation yesterday reported a 13.2 percent rise in third-quarter earnings.
The nation's third-largest long-distance telephone company said profits of $109.6 million, or 49 cents a share, were up 13 percent from $96.8 million, or 44 cents a share, a year earlier. It said revenues grew 5.3 percent, to $2.33 billion from $2.21 billion. 
 Sprint spent heavily to promote new products in the second quarter, when profit had risen only 5.6 percent from the year before. It promoted its Foncard, a calling card with added information services; the Most, a discount program on calls to customers' most frequently called parties, and Business Clout, a discount program aimed at small businesses.
 
Help From Refinancings
 The company was also aided in the third quarter by lower interest costs because it refinanced debt to take advantage of lower rates. It was also helped by a strong performance from its local-telephone operations, which are in areas less hurt by the recession and where there is relatively favorable state regulation.
Sprint shares gained 75 cents each on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, closing at $25.
Sprint's earnings exceeded Wall Street projections by a relatively wide margin. Most analysts expected earnings of around 47 cents a share, while Sprint reported operating earnings before a one-time extraordinary charge of 52 cents a share, or $5.6 million, for early retirement of high-interest bonds.
William T. Esrey, Sprint's chairman and chief executive, said the company had increased its advertising and marketing budget by $28 million to lift consumer interest in the three new products. Advertising typically covers high-cost television ads and marketing covers one-time incentives to customers.
"Candice Bergen has been an excellent spokeswoman for us; all of our market surveys tell us," said Mr. Esrey of the company's commercial spokeswoman. "But clearly, people like our products, too."
 
Some Skepticism
 But Frank J. Governali, a telecommunications analyst with the First Boston Corporation, was skeptical. "They still haven't proved themselves," he said. "The point is not that they did well in the third quarter, which they did, but whether the growth is sustainable."
Mr. Governali expects fourth-quarter earnings of 47 cents a share, with $1.87 a share for the full year. He expects 1993 earnings of only $1.70 a share, recently revised down from $2.05. Mr. Governali expects Sprint's merger, announced earlier this year, with the Centel Corporation, a large cellular and local-telephone company in Illinois, to be completed next year and to result in a large dilution of earnings.
Several large shareholders oppose the merger plan. Pending clearance of Sprint and Centel proxies by the Securities and Exchange Commission, shareholder meetings for a showdown vote might be held in December or early 1993.
 
Rise in Traffic
 Sprint also posted an unusually strong rise in telephone traffic in the third quarter, saying that long-distance minutes grew 3.2 percent over the second quarter, and 6.9 percent over the third quarter a year earlier.
Mr. Governali expects that traffic at the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, the largest long-distance carrier, rose less than 2 percent in the third quarter over the second, and that that of the MCI Communications Corporation, the second-largest carrier, rose 2.4 percent.
Both companies are expected to report earnings in the next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: S (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: SPRINT CORP SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (94%); CENTEL CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPRINT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BONDS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); EARLY RETIREMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY FRANK J GOVERNALI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



468 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Lower But Gains Against the Yen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar closed lower yesterday against leading European currencies but edged higher against the Japanese yen in a session dominated largely by technical market forces.
Gold prices fell after a steep plunge the previous session. On New York's Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery fell $1.20 to settle at $344 an ounce. The Republic National Bank of New York reported a late bid price for gold of $343.80, off $2.05. 
 There were no new economic reports released during the session, leaving the dollar to drift lower. Trading hit a lull ahead of a series of important economic reports later this week, said Ronald Holzer, vice president and chief dealer at Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago.
Economic reports scheduled this week include wholesale and consumer price trends in September, a key measure of inflation.
Curtis Perkins, currency trader at Chemical Bank in New York, said some European traders were selling the dollar on the expectation that Bill Clinton will win the Nov. 3 election. Financial markets tend to prefer Republican candidates on the theory they are less likely to increase government spending.
Besides that, Mr. Perkins said the selling was chiefly because of technical factors.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing 121.60 Japanese yen from 121.02 yen at Monday's close. Later, in London, it fell to 121.35 yen. The dollar closed at 121.10 Japanese yen in late New York trading, up from 120.85 late Monday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.7165, from $1.7045 late Monday. In late New York trading, the British pound was quoted at $1.7160, more expensive than $1.7080 late Monday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's rates, included: 1.4640 German marks, down from 1.4685; 1.3068 Swiss francs, down from 1.3080; 4.9760 French francs, down from 4.9895; 1,296.50 Italian lire, down from 1,291.00, and 1.243395 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2445.
Gold dropped after having slid more than $5 an ounce Monday. Analysts said the decline was apparently caused by one seller who dumped a large amount of gold in a lightly traded market.
Gold fell in London yesterday to a late bid price of $343.55 a troy ounce from $346.05 late Monday. In Zurich, it fell to a closing bid of $343.75 from $345.50. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $4.23 to close at a bid $345.53.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (72%); HSB (PAR) (72%); HBC (NYSE) (72%); 0005 (HKSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (72%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); CHEMICAL BANK (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (58%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (94%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); GERMAN MARK (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



469 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Unleaded Gasoline Retreats Following Rally Last Week

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Unleaded gasoline prices fell steeply yesterday, a pullback from last week's rally after an explosion shut down a large California refinery.
Analysts said traders had decided that the impact from the explosion and fire, which halted output at Texaco Inc.'s 100,000 barrel-a-day refinery in Wilmington, would not be significant. Energy prices were also brought down by speculators who sold contracts they bought last week, causing what was termed a "technical correction." 
 November energy futures contracts may have posted false breakouts in Friday's rally by attracting new buyers in the market and then failing to follow through, traders said.
November unleaded gas tumbled 1.23 cents a gallon, to 59.2 cents, at the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 
Crude Oil Down on Rumors
 November crude oil declined 21 cents, to $22.09 a barrel, and heating oil for the same month lost 0.97 cent, to 64.51 cents a gallon. November natural gas prices continued to drop, falling 7.9 cents, to $2.151 per million British thermal units.
Crude oil was also hit by rumors that the United Nations and Iraq had made progress on the issue of Iraq's resuming oil sales. Iraqi oil has been embargoed since the gulf war. But several traders said the rumors arose only after the price drop.
In trading on other commodity markets, coffee prices jumped in a technically driven rally. "The technicals are very powerful" in coffee, one analyst said.
In a burst of buying, fed by bullish signals on price charts, December coffee rose 1.65 cents a pound, to 63.45 cents, at the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange.
In the volatile pork-belly pit, February rallied the 2-cent limit for the second day, closing at 43.3 cents a pound. Last week's Bush Administration disclosure that pork would be included in an agricultural-aid package to Russia touched off the rally. But analysts said other fundamental factors were at work. Consumer demand for cheaper pork has risen in the recession, while the hog-raising cycle is in a rebuilding phase, resulting in fewer sows available for slaughter.
October live cattle also advanced, gaining 0.325 cent a pound, to 76.425 cents, on a strong cash market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (72%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (72%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES; GASOLINE OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); FUTURES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); MEATS (71%); HOG & PIG FARMING (68%); DESERT STORM (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



470 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Chip Industry Indicator Off

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Despite a slight increase in new orders, the semiconductor industry's leading indicator declined in September, a trade group reported today.
The Semiconductor Industry Association, based in San Jose, Calif., reported a book-to-bill ratio of 1.06 for the three-month period ending in September, down from a revised figure of 1.09 in August, and from 1.08 in July. The book-to-bill compares orders with shipments and is considered a leading indicator of the industry's performance. A ratio of 1.06 indicates that for every $100 worth of product shipped, $106 was ordered. A ration above 1.0 indicates that demand has continued to increase. 
 At $1.65 billion, three-month orders for September were up nine-tenths of 1 percent from $1.63 billion for the three-month period ending in August, and 36.8 percent higher than the comparable figure for one year ago, which was $1.29 billion. Three-month average shipments for September totaled $1.55 billion, up 3.1 percent from August's figure of $1.51 billion. At $1.77 billion, actual United States market shipments for the month of September were up 20.1 percent from the $1.47 billion shipped in August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS; SEMICONDUCTORS ELECTRONICS (94%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SHIPMENTS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



471 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Bank Yields Drop a Bit In Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields offered on bank money market accounts and certificates of deposit edged lower in the week ending today. But the decline for yields on certificates of deposit was not as steep as the drops in money market accounts.
Analysts at The Bank Rate Monitor, a Florida-based publication, said this week's decline in money market accounts reflects short-term interest rates quoted in the open market, where there had been expectations of another rate cut by the Federal Reserve. 
 At the Treasury's weekly auction yesterday of three- and six-month bills, the average discount rates rose to their highest levels in weeks. The auction is often regarded as a barometer of how banks will eventually set deposit rates in the weeks ahead.
 
Rates Rise at Auction
 The average rate at auction for a three-month bill was up 21 basis points, to 2.88 percent, while the six-month bill rose 17 basis points, to 2.95 percent.
Robert K. Heady, publisher of The Monitor, wondered whether the Fed's window of opportunity for cutting rates again might have passed because of the recent crises in the European markets. "The uncertainty has put many banks on hold regarding rate changes, even causing some to rise instead," Mr. Heady said.
The combined New York area average for yields in the latest week showed a smaller decline than in the previous week, with a money market account down an average of 3 basis points, to 2.82 percent. A three-month certificate of deposit stayed unchanged at 2.86 percent, while a six-month certificate slipped a basis point, to 3 percent.
Yields at commercial banks were mixed for the first time in months, with a money market account off 2 basis points, to 2.64 percent, and a three-month certificate up a basis point, to 2.74 percent. The six-month certificate was unchanged at 2.87 percent.
For savings bank depositors, yield declines continued. The drops were across the board, with money markets down 3 basis points, to 3.01 percent, and three-month and six-month C.D.'s both off 2 basis points, to 2.98 percent and 3.13 percent, respectively.
The largest adjustments made on deposits were at Apple Bank for Savings, where the money market rate was cut 11 basis points, to 2.73 percent, and at Bank of Tokyo Trust, which raised both its three- and six-month C.D. by 22 basis points, to 2.43 percent on each.
Outside the New York market, yields at the 20 large banks surveyed were also down, with the average money market account off 2 basis points, to 2.72 percent, and a six-month C.D. down a basis point, to 2.86 percent.
 
Bank Money Accounts
 Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, Oct. 14, 1992. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.

 	 	 	 		Money	3-mo.	6-mo.	New York Area	Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	 	 	 	 	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Banco Popular	3.05	2.99	3.20	Bank of N.Y.	2.69	2.69	2.79	Bank of Tokyo Trust	2.28	2.43	2.43	Chase Manhattan	2.48	2.69	2.74	Chemical	2.33	2.66	2.70	Citibank	2.50	2.45	2.55	Conn. Nat'l Bank	2.69	2.84	2.99	EAB	2.69	2.74	2.79	First Fidelity (N.J.)	3.00	3.15	3.40	Fleet Bank (Conn)	2.55	2.83	2.99	Key Bank of N.Y.	2.53	2.48	2.84	Marine Midland	2.53	2.53	2.58	Midlantic Bank (N.J.)	2.95	3.10	3.40	Nat'l Westminster	2.58	2.69	2.74	Republic Nat'l	2.74	2.79	2.84	 	 	 	 	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Anchor Savings	3.05	3.05	3.15	Apple Bank Savings	2.73	2.53	2.74	Astoria Fed Savings	2.94	3.14	3.19	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	3.30	3.45	3.60	Crossland Savings	3.05	3.05	3.15	Dime Savings Bank	3.06	2.90	3.15	Emigrant Savings	3.05	3.00	3.15	First Fed (Rochester)	3.05	2.90	2.95	First Nationwide	2.90	2.65	2.73	Greater NY Savings	2.75	2.80	3.00	Green Point Savings	3.10	N.O.	3.20	Home Savings Amer	3.05	2.89	3.05	Hudson City SB (N.J.)	3.30	3.65	3.75	People's Bank (Conn.)	2.78	2.84	2.99	River Bank America	3.05	2.90	3.10	
 	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.	Major Banks Outside N.Y.	Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	 	 	 	 	 	Bank of Boston	2.84	0.00	2.94	-0.10	Bank One Texas(Dallas)	2.68	0.00	2.85	-0.05	Citibank, S.D.	2.55	0.00	3.20	0.00	Comerica(Detroit)	2.78	0.00	2.89	-0.10	Fidelity Bank(Philadelphia)	3.00	0.00	3.00	0.00	First Bank(Minnesota)	2.48	0.00	2.70	-0.05	First Interstate(L.A.)	2.70	-0.10	2.63	-0.05	First National(Chicago)	2.63	0.00	2.73	+0.10	First Union(Charlotte, N.C.)	2.80	0.00	2.66	0.00	Fleet Bank(Boston)	2.78	0.00	2.99	0.00	Maryland Natl	2.95	0.00	3.10	0.00	Mellon(Pittsburgh)	3.04	0.00	2.70	0.00	Meridian Bank(Reading Pa)	2.54	0.00	3.10	0.00	National Bank(Detroit)	2.93	0.00	2.95	0.00	NationsBank(Tampa)	2.35	-0.15	2.70	0.00	Seafirst (Seattle)	2.75	0.00	3.00	0.00	Shawmut Bank(Boston)	2.79	0.00	2.95	-0.05	TexasCommerce(Houston)	2.27	0.00	2.38	0.00	Union Bank(S.F.)	2.78	-0.06	2.84	0.00	Wachovia(Winston Salem,N.C.)	2.70	-0.10	2.80	0.00	
 
N.A. Rate not available N.O. Not offered
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach 33408)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); EUROPE (70%); FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (92%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (79%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ROBERT K HEADY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



472 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Be Quantitative but Creative, Ad Experts Tell Marketers

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

DATELINE: HOT SPRINGS, Va.

 BODY:
FOR decades, marketers have ruefully joked that they know half their advertising spending is wasted, but they don't know which half.
As the 83d annual meeting and business conference of the Association of National Advertisers ended here, the nation's biggest marketers were warned yesterday that the figure in the aphorism ought to be doubled unless they redouble efforts to improve the effectiveness and creativity of their sales messages. 
 "I've been embarrassed by the lack of standards by which advertisers measure their agencies," said Solomon Dutka, chief executive of Audits and Surveys Inc. in New York, a market research company. "This amazes me," he added. "I come from the physical sciences, yet you have no marketing laboratories where you can test things."
As for the additional costs of such research, he continued, "Cheap is expensive to you people."
Mr. Dutka advocated "a common and clear understanding by clients and their agencies of advertising goals," such as increasing awareness among consumers of a coffee brand's special blend of beans or improving attitudes about a car's trade-in value. Those goals would be identified and agreed upon, he said, with the aim of achieving them over a specific period.
Theodore Levitt, a professor at the Harvard Business School, asserted that "for most people, advertising is just Muzak, background music." Ads are received grudgingly and skeptically, thereby creating "a big, receptive market for advertising bashing," he said.
"Its own success," he added, "begets agitation for more restrictive and punitive legislation -- and legislators."
Yet Dr. Levitt, who eschewed discussing his noted theories about global advertising to address the issue of advertising's efficacy, told a sparsely attended morning session that the process was often impeded by its very nature.
"Advertising overpromises by design," he said. "Only in the want ads, where amateurs operate, does it not." And, he added, advertising is purposely intrusive and, "like art, is representational, not the real thing."
Since it is widely acknowledged that "advertising is a price we pay for choice" in the American economic system, he continued, "it's not a requirement of our profession that we be fond of everything we do."
"Only an auctioneer," he said, "can be enthusiastic about all forms of art."
Carrying the banner for creativity was Philip B. Dusenberry, chairman and chief executive of BBDO New York and vice chairman of BBDO Worldwide. He urged marketers to quit being "members of Advertising Anonymous" and demand from their agencies what he called "famous advertising."
"If your advertising is not famous," Mr. Dusenberry said, "you're just not getting your money's worth." Such creativity can make advertising "so recognizable, so noticeable, so different from anybody else's," Mr. Dusenberry said, "it gives you exactly the edge you've been longing for."
Since no discussion of advertising creativity would be complete without show and tell, Mr. Dusenberry played a videotape of commercials that, he said, "stick to the roof of your mind." Many of them were even produced by other agencies like Fallon McElligott in Minneapolis (Lee jeans), Cliff Freeman & Partners in New York (Little Caesars pizza) and Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore. (Nike athletic shoes).
BBDO, of course, had its fair share, including Pizza Hut's celebration of a Little Leaguer who manages to make the game-winning catch in right field and Du Pont's paean to a man who plays basketball with artificial legs.
Mr. Dusenberry acknowledged that "the potential of fame always brings you the possibility of failure."
"Remember Joe Isuzu?" he asked, referring to the campaign that was more successful at creating a career for the actor who played the lying salesman than in moving metal for Isuzu.
Nevertheless, Mr. Dusenberry said: "Advertising that's famous gives a product a greater chance of success. If the ads make the audience snooze, you lose."
Even so, can the pursuit of creativity be reconciled with the need for discipline to achieve predetermined goals? Mr. Dutka quoted Sir Joshua Reynolds's disdain for the "false and vulgar opinion that rules are the fetters of genius." And though this Reynolds is unrelated to R. J. Reynolds, the audience seemed to have appreciated the point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GFK (FRA) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ASSN OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS GFK AG (84%); BBDO NEW YORK (51%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSN OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); AWARENESS MARKETING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COFFEE & TEA (72%); COFFEE (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AUCTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



473 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
Software Helps Patients Make Crucial Choices

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Told by his doctor that he had an enlarged prostate gland, Richard A. Dronen, a 59-year-old retailing executive in Minneapolis, thought he should have surgery. His doctor, however, disagreed and sent Mr. Dronen to try a high-tech method of learning more about his prospects.
Mr. Dronen educated himself about the noncancerous condition by using an interactive videodisk system that let him enter his own personal health data. Using the disk, he could weigh the risks of unpleasant complications after surgery versus trying drug therapy versus simply practicing "watchful waiting" with the condition, which hampers urination and can cause dangerous infections. 
 The video software also included on-screen appearances by two retired Dartmouth medical professors -- one who had opted for the surgery, one who had not -- describing the pluses and minuses of the options.
Like most prostate patients who have viewed the videodisks, Mr. Dronen saw the benefits of watchful waiting. The program "helped me understand the whole system better," he said.
As doctors and hospitals plunge into the computer age, a growing number of patients like Mr. Dronen are viewing videodisks and using touch-activated screens to learn more about their illnesses.
Interactive video, in which the viewer uses a computer mouse or touches the screen to answer questions and choose specific information, is already widely employed in teaching programs for doctors and nurses. Now the technology is beginning to be used to enhance the physician-patient relationship.
 
An Expanding Field
 Seeking to create a market in what had been an experimental field, an American unit of the Sony Corporation is about to start selling the prostate program and patient-information packages on breast cancer, hypertension and low-back pain. Two other companies have similar but less ambitious projects under way.
Researchers say such software programs, promoting shared decision making, hold the promise of improving quality of care and reducing costs. Many patients with prostate problems have postponed surgery after considering the alternatives, some finding that the condition remains manageable or even seems to disappear on its own. Users of other programs said they gained a better appreciation of the health consequences of disobeying expert advice about diet and exercise.
 
Could Reduce Lawsuits
 For doctors and insurers, there is a side benefit: Patients who choose surgery will be on record as having considered the risks of complications, thus reducing the likelihood of medical malpractice lawsuits.
What is more, published research has indicated that some patients who participate in this type of choice have better health results than those who get the same drugs and treatments but do not participate. "Involvement itself is good for your health," said Jonathan Brown, a researcher at the Kaiser Foundation Hospitals' Center for Health Research in Portland, Ore. "The placebo factor is really there."
Five videodisk programs, which have been under development at universities and health maintenance organizations, will be marketed across the country later this month by Sony Medical Systems, a Sony Corporation unit in Montvale, N.J.
H.M.O's and large group-medical practices can buy or lease the equipment and subscribe to one or more software programs, including periodic updates on the latest drugs and treatments. Sony said it would initially turn over 80 percent of the software fees to the nonprofit Foundation for Informed Medical Decision Making in Hanover, N.H., which produced the programs. The foundation plans to develop several dozen more programs and keep them current.
Dr. Richard Foster, medical director of a 40,000-member H.M.O. operated by South Carolina Blue Cross and Blue Shield, is buying the equipment. Patients and doctors who tried it in Columbia and Florence, S.C., found that it "enhanced the physician-patient relationship," he said.
South Carolina Blue Cross is one of nine Blue Cross and Blue Shield associations that are at various stages of studying or installing the programs. They are also being tested by Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston; Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center in Hanover, N.H., and the Veterans Administration, as well as several regional Kaiser Permanente H.M.O.'s, the Minnesota Group Care Consortium in Minneapolis and the Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound in Seattle.
Sony Medical executives said they hoped to sell 500 systems in the first six months and eventually generate up to $20 million a year for the foundation. Developing a program costs $250,000 to $500,000, plus about $100,000 for an update, foundation officials said. The research is done at universities including Dartmouth, Duke and the University of Washington.
 
Variety of Equipment
 The hardware sells for about $8,000. It includes a Sony laser-disk player and touch-screen terminal; a Dell personal computer with a Sony video board; a keyboard for entering the patient's history and a Hewlett-Packard printer. The software is priced at $975 a year for the first program, including updates, with discounts for additional programs.
Other similar products are heading for the market. Computer scientists at Louisiana State University in Shreveport, for example, are developing an "informed consent" video for patients facing gastrointestinal surgery. It will be marketed by the Health Sciences Consortium in Chapel Hill, N.C., early next year.
United States Pharmacopaea, a privately held company based in Rockville, Md., which publishes standards for drug compounds, is working on an interactive video program, using a Philips CD-ROM compact disk system, to explain drugs and diets to diabetes patients. It will cost about $3,000 with the disk.
Dr. Erol Uke, head of urology at the Park Nicollet Medical Center in Minneapolis, was the doctor who advised Mr. Dronen, the retailing executive, to consult the videodisk. Park Nicollet, which recently joined with the Mayo Clinic and Group Health Inc. of Minneapolis to form a managed-care consortium, has always been reluctant to recommend surgery for patients with Mr. Dronen's condition, known as benign prostate hyperplasia.
Dr. Uke says he shows the video only to "people whom we have to convince that they do not need surgery."
"The patient comes away with a sense of participation," he said. "They want to take more control of their disease."
Helping the patient is the main concern, Dr. Uke said, not the cost savings, which may take years -- if ever -- to become evident. For one thing, he said, electing to postpone surgery may in some cases mean the patient will have the operation when he is older and more likely to experience complications.
The new programs will help physicians collect and compare the results of surgery and other procedures. It is all part of a growing effort to enhance cost effectiveness through research on "medical outcomes."
Among those active in outcomes research is Dr. John Wennberg, a founder and vice chairman of the decision-making foundation in Hanover. He also heads the Center for Evaluative Science at Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center.
"I'm trying to create a market," he said, "by making it possible for patients to know the options in an economy that traditionally has been imbalanced in terms of the availability of information."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Albert G. Mulley Jr., chief of the general internal medicine unit at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, demonstrating a "shared decision making" program on a computer to a patient. (Brooks Kraft for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (66%); SNE (NYSE) (66%); 6758 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); NAICS621491 HMO MEDICAL CENTERS (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (66%); KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN INC (57%); DARTMOUTH HITCHCOCK MEDICAL CENTER (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH HITCHCOCK MEDICAL CENTER (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) PROSTATE DISEASE (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); LITIGATION (85%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); SALES & SELLING (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (70%); INSURANCE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); HYPERTENSION (63%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (63%); DIETING (62%); BREAST CANCER (51%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (51%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT RICHARD A DRONEN (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



474 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 25; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Profit Reported by Meredith

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Oct. 13

 BODY:
The Meredith Corporation, a publishing concern, today reported a profit of $3.4 million, or 22 cents a share, in its first fiscal quarter compared with a $4.5 million loss a year earlier that reflected a one-time charge for an accounting change.
Without last year's $7.3 million charge for adopting a new accounting principle for retirement benefits, profit rose about 25 percent. 
 Revenue in the first quarter rose 4.4 percent, to $177.4 million from $170 million, in part reflecting advertising-page increases at all of Meredith's magazines except Metropolitan Home and Successful Farming.
Jack Rehm, Meredith's chairman, said the other Meredith magazines, especially Better Homes and Gardens, made gains in advertising despite a listless national economy.
Results would have been better except for huge start-up costs of a cable television partnership that is expected to be a drag on earnings in the next two to three fiscal years, he said. Meredith has invested $100 million in the cable partnership, which so far has bought systems in the Minneapolis area and in North Dakota.
Meredith shares lost 50 cents each today, closing at $22 on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MDP (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (68%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MEREDITH CORP MEREDITH CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEREDITH CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (68%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); 

PERSON: JACK D REHM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



475 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Outlook Cut For Growth

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 13

 BODY:
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has cut its forecast for economic growth for its 24 industrial member countries to 2.1 percent in 1993 from the 3 percent growth rate it forecast in June.
That compares with its forecast for 1992 economic growth in the O.E.C.D. area, as measured by the gross domestic product, of 1.5 percent and last year's eight-tenths of a percent growth. 
 The O.E.C.D. is an economic research agency and advisory body grouping 24 developed industrial nations including the United States, Canada, the European Community countries, Japan and Australia.
The figures, announced by Kumiharu Shigehara, head of the O.E.C.D.'s economics department, at a news conference in Tokyo today, were made available here by the organization's officials.
Mr. Shigehara said the O.E.C.D. also cut its forecast for Japanese economic growth to 2.6 percent next year from the 3.1 percent it forecast in June.
Growth in the United States is now forecast at 1.8 percent this year, rising to 2.4 percent next year, Mr. Shigehara said. That compares with the June forecast of 2.1 percent growth in 1992 and 3.6 percent in 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT (OECD) ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (98%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT (OECD) ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (98%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



476 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1959 words

HEADLINE: Mapping Out Ethnic Foods, Freeway By Freeway

BYLINE: MOLLY O'NEILL

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
LIKE most Angelenos, Linda Burum was used to getting on the freeway and driving past every neighborhood except her own. But seven years ago, she gave up the fast track for smaller streets with meandering turns and traffic lights, streets that frequently lack signs. Her detours resulted in "A Guide to Ethnic Food in Los Angeles," which will be published this week by HarperPerennial.
Ms. Burum, who appears to be as obsessed with arcane foods as she is easily confused by unfamiliar streets, was determined to map her hometown's ethnic frontiers and render its exotic tastes accessible. But would Lewis and Clark have risked so much for a meal? 
 "Move it, lady!" screamed the driver of the tractor-trailer rig behind Ms. Burum's blue Subaru, which was paused, as usual, in the middle of an intersection. But Ms. Burum, 47 years old, who taught home economics before she turned to ethnic cartography, was impervious to the honking horns. She's learned to deal with unsympathetic traffic, desolate neighborhoods and directions issued in unfamiliar dialects.
"Hmmmm," she said. "Oh, dear." She reached to the back seat, where she carries a library of atlases and maps and guide books. "Hmmmm," she said again.
"I thought the Japanese pastry shop was in this mini-mall, but, hmmmm. Maybe not. Well, hmmmm. On the other hand, you really should taste some more soba" -- a reference to the thin buckwheat noodles that she predicts will become as popular as pasta with pesto.
Ms. Burum had proposed a three-day eating binge, concentrating on Japanese, Mexican, Thai and Persian food. She promised that the sampling would deliver "the most authentic ethnic food in the United States." Finding a handful of the city's thousands of obscure food shops and ethnic restaurants is a little like finding some of the dots that, when connected, create a picture of a complicated port of entry -- and a vibrant culinary melting pot.
Los Angeles has its discrete Chinatown, its Koreatown and Japantown. But the 4,070-square-mile sprawl of Los Angeles County, whose central nervous system is its freeways, has bred diaspora after diaspora. For instance, tourists shop and dine in Japantown along San Pedro Street in downtown Los Angeles. But the Japanese and dedicated aficionados of Japanese culture know to head to west Los Angeles, a hub of Japanese life since before World War I, or to Torrance and Gardena, where Japanese settled later. Often well heeled, these later immigrants had the money to buy real estate and to develop giant Japanese malls and superstores.
Likewise, since the late 1950's, it has been a rare mile in Los Angeles that hasn't offered a nacho-and-combo-platter Mexican restaurant. The affordable, Americanized food simultaneously appealed to non-Mexicans and gave the Mexican families who own the restaurants a financial base that allowed them to dine out. After several generations, there are enough affluent Mexicans to support Mexican-owned mini-malls in Huntington Park that are devoted to Mexican products.
In the same fashion, after the Vietnam War, some of the immigrants from Southeast Asia built upscale Thai restaurants in Hollywood featuring dishes that became familiar to Americans, like sate and pad thai. For the patronage of their fellow immigrants, they opened tiny spots in the San Fernando Valley and Lakewood sections, with obscure regional fare, like the Isaan-style cuisine from northeast Thailand. The Los Angeles Thai Chamber of Commerce estimates that there are 350 Thai restaurants in the greater Los Angeles area, more than in any place in the world except Bangkok, Thailand.
More recently, the last decade of political unrest in the Middle East has brought so many Iranian expatriates to Los Angeles that they call the place not Little Teheran, but Teherangeles, said Jeff Beckerman, the city's demographer.
Ms. Burum notes that the food of the ancient Persian court was once the haute cuisine of the medieval Islamic world, but newly arrived Iranians, like the Japanese, Thais and Mexicans who preceded them, did not open grand restaurants. They served simple kebabs, which -- like teriyaki for the Japanese, nachos for the Mexicans and sate for the Thais -- have given them cultural currency and the beginnings of an economic base.
"The kinds of stores and restaurants an ethnic group opens is a thumbnail sketch of where that population is in the assimilation process," Ms. Burum said. "The little patches that sprout up here and there show the numbers of individuals who've immigrated, where they are financially and how long they've been here." When one is greeted by a host with uninflected English and served with European-style cutlery and linens, for instance, it is generally safe to assume that the restaurant is owned by second- or third-generation Americans.
The discrete neighborhoods are an adventurous food lover's dream: because of their isolation, they serve up un-Americanized ethnic cooking. But these far-flung enclaves are also a food lover's nightmare: who can find them?
"That's one of the differences between tenements and track housing," said Ms. Burum, who is fond of calling Los Angeles "Ellis Island, west."
At the same time, the isolation born of dispersion seems to create a more ubiquitous sense of ethnicity in the city. "I've eaten more ethnic food in Los Angeles than I have in any other city," said Eberhard Muller, the former chef of Le Bernardin in New York, who moved to Santa Monica last year and opened the Opus restaurant there. "It's not that there are more ethnic restaurants here. It's just that they are more apparent and more talked about."
This phenomenon may account for the fluid lines between Los Angeles's citadels of chic and their ethnic underpinnings. At Spago, where Thai spring rolls and Cambodian soups are routinely served along with pizzas and risotto, Wolfgang Puck, the owner and chef, credits the city's vivid pluralism with both his inspiration and his appreciative clientele.
"It's a pain when it comes to shopping," he said, "because lemon grass is one place; the best Hawaiian shrimp is a 40-minute drive in the other direction.". But the dispersion means that Angelenos have a panoply of disparate ethnic restaurants in close range of their homes.
Experience has taught Ms. Burum that the emerging ethnic dishes of today are foolproof harbingers of the flavors of haute cuisine to come. She began her odyssey seven years ago, by collaborating on "Cook's Marketplace Los Angeles," a shopping guide published by 101 Productions in 1986. Her new book has more than 500 entries, and she continues to study ethnic newspapers to find what she calls "little patches of ethnicity that sprout up like wild mushrooms after the rain."
In midintersection, she continued to weigh a yakitori-and-noodle shop against a pub with Japanese-style hors d'oeuvres. The honking behind Ms. Burum's car was escalating.
"Oh, dear," she said. "I guess soba is really the thing. Those noodles are going to jump into the mainstream." She headed toward Sanuki No Sato (18206 South Western Avenue, Gardena), a tidy little noodle restaurant nestled in a mini-mall.
A gaggle of Japanese businessmen were delicately plucking long buckwheat noodles from the zaro, the bamboo-latticed serving container, and nimbly flicking them into the dipping sauce. "It's gauche to saturate the noodles," Ms. Burum said in a clear stage whisper. As well as a tireless chronicler, she is an indefatigable teacher.
"It's disrespectful to the chef," she said. "He rolls this pasta by hand." Under a mountain of steamed vegetables, the chilled noodles are deliciously chewy, yet delicate. "Definite crossover dish," Ms. Burum added.
She next suggested dropping into Yoro No Taki, (15462 South Western Avenue, Gardena) a Japanese pub in a nearby mini-mall that offers seven sakes, a variety of yakitori and fried appetizers, and a glimpse of Everyman's Japan in Los Angeles today. "The population is growing, not so much in numbers, but in affluence," she said.
As proof, she drove by the Yaohan Market (21515 Western Avenue, Torrance), several acres of an antiseptically clean Japanese supermarket with everything from prepared foods and Asian produce to more than a dozen types of soy sauce. "Better food shopping here than Tokyo," said Ms. Burum, who when not scouting neighborhoods in Los Angeles is traveling in Asia and Latin America. "But you need a pair of roller skates to get through the place."
Nearly as large, but with a humbler ambiance, was El Gallo Giro (7136 Pacific, Huntington Park), a tile-floored Mexican deli that serves up dozens of Mexican prepared foods -- fresh tortillas, torta rolls with roast pork and chilies, tacquito, empanada, stews, roasts and fresh-squeezed tropical juices. The crowd was made up of families clad in embroidered peasant shirts, long cotton skirts and sandals, as opposed to the dress-for-success singles in Japanese spots.
"See the difference?" whispered Ms. Burum. "Both populations have been in Los Angeles forever, but the Japanese community has money from Japan, while many of the Mexicans keep greeting relatives who come here practically destitute."
She bent into her bowl of tinga, pork braised with chipotle and poblano peppers, priced at $1.50. Across town at the trendy Border Grill, a similar dish was offered as a luncheon special for $12.50. That's the kind of cultural exchange that Ms. Burum loves to hear about.
She was excited, for instance, to show the difference between the food at El Gallo Giro and that at Sierra's (6819 Canoga Avenue, Canoga Park). As if to reassure patrons, the sign on the heavy colonial door of Sierra's reads "Restaurant policy: service, cleanliness, quality of food." For generations, Ms. Burum said, "Angelenos have eaten the Americanized Mexican food here."
She was equally excited by the difference between the trendy sate bar at Talesai, a soaring, whitewashed dining room at 9043 Sunset Boulevard, and that of Renu Nakorn (13041 East Rosecrans Avenue, Norwalk), a hole-in-the-wall that's situated between a barber shop and a gun-and-tackle store in a mini mall.
The first restaurant, where the food lives up to the menu's promise, "the art of Thai cooking," featured inventive sates, a delicious pad Thai and soups with depth and finesse. The hole-in-the-wall featured pungent deep-fried dried beef called neua dad deal with a peppery dipping sauce; stuffed and deep-fried chicken wings; pickled Thai sausage, and minced beef, quickly sauteed and topped with a mound of mint and cilantro.
It is too soon, Ms. Burum said, to see the same contrast in Persian restaurants. Steering through clogged intersections, she passed Shahrezad Flame, at 1442 Westwood Boulevard in West Los Angeles, where tanur lavash (oven-fired flat bread) is baked in a clay oven. She finessed several one-way streets to find Golestan (1398 Westwood Boulevard, West Los Angeles), where the walls are covered with mirrors and mosaics and the pungent stews are served from an all-you-can-eat steam table.
After several wrong turns and the ritual midintersection pause, Ms. Burum screeched into an illegal parking space near Shekarchi (1712 Westwood Boulevard, West Los Angeles). Passers-by stared and oncoming traffic braked, but the premier chronicler and cartographer of Los Angeles's ethnic plenty was unfazed. Her mind was on Shekarchi, where, behind a plate-glass window, a chef prepared magnificent kebabs over a wood-burning fire. The kebabs were served with basmati rice with saffron butter, tart cherries, sweet orange peel and almonds.
"More authentic than Iran," Ms. Burum said in a whisper as she entered the restaurant. "Definitely crossover cuisine. Just wait."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Renu Nakorn specializes in Isaan-style cuisine, from northeast Thailand. Seated are Luxkana Sreewarm, the owner, and her son, Chris Vongsaroj. Standing are Eumpoin Bonchit, left, and Banyat Parkjita, the chef. (pg. C1); El Gallo Giro in Huntington Park, Calif., is a Mexican deli that offers dozens of prepared foods like fresh tortillas, empanadas and fresh-squeezed tropical juices.; Linda Burum, author of "A Guide to Ethnic Food in Los Angeles," keeps a number of maps and guidebooks in her car.; The Yaohan Market in Torrance, Calif., a Japanese supermarket, carries more than a dozen types of soy sauce. (pg. C6) (Photographs by Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GUIDE TO ETHNIC FOOD IN LOS ANGELES, A (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); THAILAND (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES COUNTY (CALIF) UNITED STATES (97%); THAILAND (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (76%); PASTA & NOODLES (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); GEOGRAPHY (70%); RETAIL BAKERIES (65%); EATING DISORDERS (64%); WORLD WAR I (50%); 

PERSON: BURUM, LINDA; O'NEILL, MOLLY LINDA BURUM (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



477 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
The National Pastime as Big Business

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

 BODY:
Baseball and Billions
A Probing Look Inside the Big Business of Our National Pastime
By Andrew Zimbalist
270 pages. Basic Books. $20.
At Shea Stadium this season, an unrepentant Ebbets Field fan and his young companions helped to increase the gross national profit by making a large investment in inflationary hot dogs, fries, soft drinks and peanuts, not to mention a few dollars for the usher who tickled the dust off the seats. Surprisingly, there was no extra charge for the mustard. Now along comes Andrew Zimbalist, professor of economics at Smith College, with the cheerful international news that treats at the ballpark in Queens are a comparative bargain because, at the Skydome in Toronto, a special hot dog goes for $6. 
 On the eve of the World Series, Mr. Zimbalist's "Baseball and Billions" fuels the debate about the economics of major- and minor-league baseball by following the money and moneymakers -- the owners, players, agents, broadcasters -- and the various sidelines of the game. As a cool designated hitter for the curious reader, he scores with historical lore and unassailable statistics that ought to keep the hot-stove league glowing all winter.
In general, the study tilts against management: "baseball's barons." Mr. Zimbalist quotes Bill Veeck, former owner of the Cleveland Indians, Chicago White Sox and St. Louis Browns, on baseball's loopholes: "Look, we play the 'Star-Spangled Banner' before every game. You want us to pay income taxes too?"
None of the facts and charts in this informative and often amusing book ought to stop a fan from rooting for the home team's player-millionaires. But the author does leave the impression that when it comes to franchise trading, tax breaks, contract negotiations and antitrust exemptions, the national pastime might more accurately be shifted from the sports to the business pages. His point about the bottom-line synergy of baseball and broadcasting seemed to be documented on Sunday when CBS stayed with the extra innings of a playoff game instead of broadcasting the first Presidential debate.
"Ten years ago baseball was looked upon merely as a pastime. Individuals of means and leisure organized clubs for pleasure, and were perfectly satisfied if at the close of the season the nine had won a fair majority of the games and receipts balanced expenditures. . . . Three institutions -- the National League, the reserve rule and the national agreement -- have changed entirely the nature of the game. What was formerly a pastime has now become a business, capital is invested from business motives, and the officers and stockholders of the different clubs include men of social standing and established business capacity."
When was that written?
Guess again. It appeared in Lippincott's Magazine, written by John Montgomery Ward, leader of the new Brotherhood of Professional Baseball Players, in 1886. Ward, both a star pitcher and shortstop for the New York Giants, presented a long list of demands for the brotherhood, including an end to the reserve clause, breaking the annual salary cap of $2,500 for most players, stopping player sales between owners for which the player received nothing, and abolishing such extra duties as collecting tickets and sweeping up the ballpark after the game.
"Baseball and Billions" looks behind the value of franchises, the financial threats against municipalities to keep teams from moving, and the profits that are concealed by accounting legerdemain. It's the player salaries that dominate the headlines, not the turnstile or the media or even the hot-dog profits. The best answer to accusations of player greed was given by Babe Ruth in 1930, when his pay reached $80,000 after he had helped to make millions for the Yankees. When he was told that his annual pay was $5,000 more than President Herbert Hoover's, Ruth replied: "What the hell has Hoover got to do with it? Besides, I had a better year than he did."
Marvin Miller, the former director of the Players' Association who played a major role in driving up player salaries, said in 1965 that players were the most exploited people he knew -- "worse than Cesar Chavez's grape pickers at the time." (On the other hand, grape pickers don't fly first class by contract from job to job.) Balancing pro-player comment, the author cites a remark in 1990 by Charles Bronfman, outgoing owner of the Montreal Expos, that major-league salaries "have lost not only all sense of proportion, but sense of reason."
Mr. Zimbalist doesn't think so, not that he cries for them; he notes that players now have additional negotiated perquisites, everything from employee benefits to licensing income to extra money from baseball cards. But he adds that baseball stars are not in the same league as stars in the entertainment industry. Where Bill Cosby, Sylvester Stallone, Madonna and Michael Jackson make tens of millions of dollars a year, the top baseball players earn far less.
"One learns in introductory microeconomics classes," he writes, "that in each of the above cases, the individual is paid according to the value of what he or she produces, the so-called marginal revenue product." Of course, neither microeconomics nor macroeconomics can explain why when faltering Mets players are traded to other teams, they suddenly come alive.
"Baseball and Billions" advocates greater government regulation of what has become interstate and international commerce: "Congress could legislate rules piecemeal that could be enforced by the watchful eye of a bureau in the Department of Commerce. One such rule might be that the All-Star Game, the playoffs, and the World Series must be available on free television, and that a certain number be played in the afternoon."
Mr. Zimbalist won't be offered the job of baseball commissioner or the presidency of a network for such challenging ideas, but his book is more than fun to read.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew Zimbalist (Basic Books)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BASEBALL AND BILLIONS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (56%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (54%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (54%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (54%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (54%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (56%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (79%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MEN (75%); SPORTS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); WRITERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TOURNAMENTS (67%); INCOME TAX (64%); SOFT DRINKS (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: MITGANG, HERBERT; ZIMBALIST, ANDREW WILLIAM LOUIS 'BILL' VEECK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



478 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: The Pop Life

BYLINE: By Peter Watrous

 BODY:
A Big Splash
Here's how long it took the tribute to Bob Dylan at Madison Square Garden that's scheduled for Friday night, featuring everybody from George Harrison, Eric Clapton and the rock poet himself to members of the group Pearl Jam, to sell out: 70 minutes. That's for 18,200 seats, and each person was allowed to buy only one pair of tickets at a time. The tickets started at $80 for the public and at $150 for industry types. What recession?
"We were pleasantly surprised about the response," said Kevin Wall, the chairman of Radiovision, the company producing the show. "The demographic is the same as has been buying back-catalogue records for years and saving the music industry. It's getting people out of the suburbs into cars to go to a concert in New York, which is hard to do. The demand is much greater than the tickets we had, and I think we could have done five nights. To have George and Dylan and Eric, it's magical. I think when value is put out here in the market place, people will buy, even if we're deep in a recession." 
 Still, $80? Mr. Wall said the concert was costing more than $5 million to produce. There are unions to pay, long rehearsals, the cost of the Garden itself and the cost of housing so many people.
The show is to be taped with both high-definition and regular television cameras. It can be seen on pay-per-view cable service at 8:30 for $19.95; it will also be seen around the world, some places live, some with a delay. The press release says half a billion people will watch it, which seems a bit much.
"We think we've got a magical moment, like 'The Last Waltz' or 'The Concert for Bangladesh,' so we thought we'd do the absolute best," Mr. Wall said. "We're going to shoot this on high definition, which is very expensive. If you can put four high-definition cameras together you're doing great, and we have eight. That right there doubled the production costs for the TV side."
The show was the idea of Mr. Dylan's representatives and Columbia Records. Mr. Dylan is a seminal figure in popular culture, even if he now sings like a wounded dog and is long past his prime. He is, inescapably, still a huge draw and has influenced everyone from the Beatles to a whole host of younger performers. Other acts on the bill include Neil Young, Mary-Chapin Carpenter, Johnny Cash, John Mellencamp, Willie Nelson, Sinead O'Connor, Tom Petty, Rosanne Cash, Lou Reed and Shawn Colvin.
Roger McGuinn, the leader of the Byrds, will also appear, and he owes a good deal of his success to Mr. Dylan. The Byrds' first single, before they signed with Columbia, was Mr. Dylan's "Mr. Tambourine Man."
"It's incalculable, his influence has been so great," Mr. McGuinn said. "If he hadn't existed, there might not have been thinking-man's music. In the mid-60's the music might just have stayed bubble gum, all those concepts of his might have been lost. The Beatles were doing straight pop, and Dylan had a talk with Lennon and after that the Beatles changed, got motivated to do something more interesting, more intellectual. Life without him in music would be the same as life without William Shakespeare."
 
8 Little Splashes
 They Might Be Giants just ended a 100-performance tour of Europe and North America, and instead of playing Madison Square Garden and charging big money, it has taken over the Variety Theater, an ex-porno palace at 110 Third Avenue, between 13th and 14th Streets in the East Village. The group, which has been touring with a band instead of its usual boom-box accompaniment, is performing for eight nights starting at 6:30 tonight, and it has a different opening act each night. The openers include David Thomas, Boss Hog and Eugene Chadbourne.
"We didn't want to do a big place," said John Flansburgh, who, with John Linnell, makes up the group. "Doing smaller shows, where people can sit down and check out the music more intensely, where a show is not so much like controlling a riot, would give us a chance instead to do real musical moments. We have a history of doing long stands in New York, and it lets us mix up the show more, so we can stretch things out a bit. And it's a good excuse to get to our homes -- we're on the extra crispy leg of a yearlong world tour, so it gives us a good excuse to get back to Brooklyn."
The group has produced the whole engagement, an unusual move that has given it the freedom to select the opening acts, shape the look of the show and determine everything else about it.
"It's better this way than if everything were picked by a promoter," Mr. Flansburgh said. "We lose the money if the money is lost, but it's worth it. And the Variety Theater has got the best marquee below 30th street, and it's been completely renovated, so people shouldn't stick to the floor.
"It's a nice place to see a show and it's not just for people who want to slam dance in the mosh pit. It's also for people who don't know what a mosh pit is. I hate big stagey productions, so I don't want our fans to think we've gone U2 on them. In the continuum between N.R.B.Q.'s production and the Rolling Stones, we're way over on N.R.B.Q.'s side."
The group will perform with a saxophonist, a bassist and a drummer as a band, which Mr. Flansburgh said is "a lot more challenging than a boom box."
"I've been doing this for 10 years, and with the band we're going through this really big transitional moment now which is good for us on a musical level. We're doing shows that are incredibly exciting, and people notice it. And the last show we do here will be a reprise of our first album. It'll be introduced by the talk show host Joe Franklin, which seems appropriate for New York."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tickets to Bob Dylan's tribute on Friday sold out in 70 minutes. (Ebet Roberts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: POP LIFE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS (ROCK BAND) MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS (ROCK BAND) NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CONCERTS AND RECITALS STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); POP & ROCK (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); PAY PER VIEW (74%); RECORD INDUSTRY (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); 

PERSON: WATROUS, PETER; DYLAN, BOB MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



479 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Review/Film: The Public Eye;
A Photographer Sees A City's Dark Side, But Not His Own

BYLINE: By VINCENT CANBY

 BODY:
In "The Public Eye," set in 1942, Joe Pesci appears as a nervy, rude freelance photographer, Leon Bernstein, who's called Bernzy or the Great Bernzini by the editors and the cops with whom he deals. Bernzy has a way of arriving at the scene of a crime even before the police.
Armed with a Speed Graphic, the pockets of his trench coat bulging with flashbulbs and film, Bernzy roams nighttime Manhattan in search of the right subject. His specialties: mob rub-outs, tenement fires, celebrities caught off guard, servicemen and their girlfriends necking in doorways, automobile accidents, suicides and the anonymous faces of the sidewalk lookers-on. In his photographs these people speak. 
 Bernzy has an eye for detail. If the gunned-down body hasn't fallen to the pavement in a way that tells the story, he rearranges the pose, sometimes pushing the guy's hat into the frame. "People like to see the hat," he says.
His gift is to be able to freeze moments of hysteria, despair and loneliness into black-and-white images of arresting immediacy. Bernzy's tabloid pictures are vulgar, sensational and occasionally unforgettable.
Howard Franklin, who wrote and directed "The Public Eye," hasn't quite figured out how to dramatize the essence of a man as peculiarly gifted and obsessed as Bernzy, but at least he has created a rich character, whom Mr. Pesci plays with a furious, sweaty kind of authenticity.
Mr. Franklin seems to have been inspired by the life and work of the great Weegee, Arthur Fellig, whose photographs of New York in the 1940's defined the city for natives as well as those who had never seen it. Weegee's nickname, a corruption of Ouija, as in Ouija board, was apparently a reference to his uncanny way of turning up where the action was. Bernzy's dream in "The Public Eye" is to shoot a mob massacre not seconds after the victims have been turned into corpses, but as it happens.
Yet that's just part of the story of "The Public Eye," which tries to be both a 1940's film noir and a story about an artist's search for recognition. Bernzy wants a one-man show at the Museum of Modern Art. He thinks it's time his photographs were collected and published between hard covers. He's also carrying on like a private eye, uncovering a scandal that involves both mob and Government figures in the black-market sale of gasoline ration stamps.
Bernzy is drawn into this mess by the beautiful, mysterious Kay Levitz (Barbara Hershey), who has inherited a Manhattan establishment like the Stork Club from her much older, recently deceased husband. When a man who is clearly a racketeer shows up one night to declare himself her partner, Kay seeks out Bernzy, sometimes known as photographer to the mob, to find out what's going on.
"The Public Eye" never quite takes off, either as romantic melodrama or as a consideration of one very eccentric man's means of self-expression. The facts are there, but they never add up to much. The psychology is rudimentary. Mr. Pesci's Bernzy is presented as a fellow who can see the world only in terms of the black-and-white pictures he takes. He protects his feelings behind the camera lens. That is, until he meets Kay.
This most tentative love story is not helped by the lack of sparks between the two people who play the lovers. For whatever reason, Mr. Pesci and Ms. Hershey were never made for each other. It doesn't help that Kay seems to make contact with Bernzy only when the script calls for her to admire his work as an artist. The movie strains too hard for too little effect and concludes with a sequence whose only sense is vaguely poetic.
Several members of the supporting cast stand out: Jared Harris, as the menacing, ambiguously motivated doorman at Kay's swank club; Stanley Tucci, as a mob stoolie, and Jerry Adler, who plays the only person Bernzy can trust.
"The Public Eye" was shot on location in Cincinnati, Chicago and Los Angeles, although it looks as authentic as the Chrysler Building, which goes to show (the Mayor's Office on Film, Theater and Broadcasting might note) that New York is not indispensable to movie makers.
Mr. Franklin shows the audience a lot of examples of work by Weegee and his contemporaries, including Weegee's classic shot made at the opening of the Metropolitan Opera in 1948: the arrival of Mrs. George Washington Kavanaugh and Lady Peel, two smiling grandes dames cloaked in ermine. Weegee studies them, front view and in full figure, as they in turn are studied by a skeptical bag lady, standing at the side and seen in profile.
Weegee's work is full of such double whammies. The movie's only double whammy is Mr. Pesci's demonstration of his own talent and the driven character he creates.
"The Public Eye," which has been rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian), has explicit violence and vulgar language.
 
The Public Eye
Written and directed by Howard Franklin; director of photography, Peter Suschitzky; edited by Evan Lottman; music by Mark Isham; production designer, Marcia Hinds-Johnson; produced by Sue Baden-Powell; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 99 minutes. This film is rated R.
 
Leon Bernstein . . . Joe Pesci
Kay Levitz . . . Barbara Hershey
Danny the Doorman . . . Jared Harris
Sal . . . Stanley Tucci
Arthur Nabler . . . Jerry Adler
Spoleto . . . Dominic Chianese
Farinelli . . . Richard Foronjy
Officer O'Brien . . . Richard Riehle
Conklin . . . Gerry Becker
Older Agent . . . Bob Gunton
Federal Watchman . . . Peter Maloney

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Pesci as a freelance photographer in "The Public Eye." (Universal City Studios)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PUBLIC EYE, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); FILM (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); SCANDALS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); FILM GENRES (71%); SUICIDE (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (62%); GASOLINE (50%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT; FRANKLIN, HOWARD; PESCI, JOE JOE PESCI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



480 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Pittsburgh Still Seeks The Big Fish

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
THERE is no time anymore to talk of dynasties. The unequal economics of baseball will see to that. But there is one last chance for the Pittsburgh Pirates to win a pennant before Barry Bonds moves on.
The Pirates gave themselves that chance by crushing the Braves, 13-4, last night, throttling all those war whoops. The Braves imported their retired knuckleballing icon, Phil Niekro, to pitch batting practice, but Tim Wakefield baffled them anyway, setting up a seventh game tonight, the game that will decide if the Pirates lived up to their potential. 
 Potential is a burden. Just ask the Toronto Blue Jays, who need to win today or tomorrow to avoid failing again. Just ask the Montreal Expos of a decade ago or the Mets, who won exactly one pennant before they were torn apart.
Management does not need to tear apart a team that does not quite get it done. Time and free agency take care of that for them.
"This other team is a tragedy," Stan Kasten, the president of the Braves, said before last night's game with quite apparent empathy. "It's a synopsis of what's wrong. They do everything right: scouting, signing, development. The Pirates are a beautiful team."
People admire the Pirates and their gritty manager, Jim Leyland, who has revived a player moping his way out the door. Before Sunday night's game in Pittsburgh, Leyland told Bonds to don't worry, be happy, and Bonds has now started that game and last night's game with two straight hits. Now he and the Pirates have a chance to reach their potential.
Reaching the World Series is success. It is a sign that a team reached the highest level, that intelligence and planning have paid off. A team can be blown out in the World Series, but it still got there.
I'll bet that deep down in his heart, Dave Winfield smarts more over batting 1 for 22 and hearing George Steinbrenner's taunts about "Mr. May" than about losing the 1981 World Series. At least those Yankees saw the red-white-and-blue bunting.
A team can lose the seventh game of the World Series and rightfully refuse to leave the field, the way the Braves did last year. The Minnesota Twins were celebrating under their synthetic roof, but the Braves were also out there doffing their caps, and fair-minded Upper Midwest folk even cheered the Braves. (Strictly as an aside, doffing is the 837th reason baseball is the best team sport. Where else can players doff their caps?)
Reaching the World Series and losing can get old, as the Brooklyn Dodgers discovered after losing five of them to the Yankees in the Octobers of 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952 and 1953 before Next Year arrived in 1955. In those days there were only two eight-team leagues, but in 1969, baseball went to division play, creating a nether world of league championships, where the Blue Jays and these Pirates have been trapped, like the Flying Dutchman, like the Man Without a Country, like the Man Who Never Returned.
The Pirates have been coming on since Syd Thrift put the pieces together in the middle 80's, but Bonds is talking to real-estate agents in this town and other big markets with huge television money for free agents. Bobby Bonilla left after the second straight loss in the championships; Doug Drabek could also leave this year.
"I can't tell 'em to stay here because the Allegheny and the Monongahela form the Ohio," Leyland said inside Three Rivers Stadium the other night. Before the Pirates break up, Leyland wants to doff his cap deep into October.
"You want the satisfaction," Leyland said. "I don't think less of myself if we don't win. But let's face it, there's only one team that's going to have a great year. Some others are going to have a good year. I don't have any ego problems, any hangups. I'm proud of what we've done."
One of Leyland's players found out the hard way there is still a big difference between winning the pennant and winning the World Series.
"In some ways you feel the World Series is a bonus, after being the best in your league," said Andy Van Slyke, who batted .091 for pennant-winning St. Louis Cardinals in 1985. "Some teams don't get three cracks in a couple of decades. I hope this team can crack it. But then you get up, 3-1, like we did in 1985, and you lose to Kansas City, and it's disappointing.
"It's like fishing all day and catching a couple of 2-pounders, and all of a sudden you have a 14-pounder on your line. You pull it close to the boat and you put your net in the water, and you suddenly discover your 8-year-old son cut a hole in the net a week ago. It can be very disappointing."
The Pirates want to net that fish. Now they have one last chance to get into the big pond known as the World Series.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Leyland (Vic DeLucia)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (57%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (66%); GEORGIA, USA (58%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); QUEBEC, CANADA (56%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); MIDWEST USA (51%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH PIRATES MINNESOTA TWINS (51%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (57%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (57%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (57%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (57%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (57%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (66%); GEORGIA, USA (58%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); QUEBEC, CANADA (56%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); MIDWEST USA (51%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); 

PERSON: LEYLAND, JIM; VECSEY, GEORGE BARRY BONDS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



481 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Style Desk

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
BILLY FRANK JR., who was arrested more than 40 times for his efforts in behalf of American Indian fishing rights in the Pacific Northwest, was awarded the Albert Schweitzer Prize for Humanitarianism yesterday at Johns Hopkins University.
Named the recipient of the Albert Schweitzer Gold Medal was MARY W. LASKER, president of the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, for her support of medical research and her lobbying for increased government financing. Mrs. Lasker, 92 years old, was unable to attend the ceremonies. 
 Both prizes are given by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.
Mr. Frank, 61, a Nisqually Indian, spent years fighting the state of Washington's refusal to recognize salmon fishing rights accorded to American Indians in treaties with the Federal Government. The Supreme Court upheld those rights in 1979. Since then, Mr. Frank has worked to heal the ruptures between Indians and non-Indians in his state.
In remarks at the ceremonies, DANIEL EVANS, the state's former Governor and Senator, said: "It was Billy Frank who after being arrested scores of times, being roughed up and beaten by agents of the state, said, 'There simply has to be a better way.' He had an enormous amount of forgiveness."
Mr. Frank had some comments of his own on the environment. "We've got to make people understand," he said, "that the economy can balance with the resources, that we don't have to take the last tree or the last drop of water."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VON HUMBOLDT, ALEXANDER, FOUNDATION JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: VON HUMBOLDT, ALEXANDER, FOUNDATION JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCHWEITZER, ALBERT, PRIZE FOR HUMANITARIANISM; SCHWEITZER, ALBERT, GOLD MEDAL NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); SPORT FISHING (78%); ARRESTS (78%); LOBBYING (76%); GOVERNORS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (56%); APPEALS (54%); 

PERSON: LASKER, MARY WOODWARD; FRANK, BILLY JR; BROZAN, NADINE BILLY FRANK JR (94%); MARY W LASKER (74%); ALBERT SCHWEITZER GOLD MEDAL (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



482 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Inside Isolated Iraq, Merchants Go in Dread

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I am writing to tell the world about the situation inside Iraq. The only way to enter the country is through Jordan. I took a 14-hour bus trip through the desert, three hours of which were the normal searching time for both borders, loading and unloading suitcases.
Life is miserable there, prices change by the hour, everything is expensive. The mounting tension between Iraq and the United States during the week of July 20 resulted in a panic in Baghdad's markets. Prices shot up by 20 percent. There were long lines for gas and gasoline for the three days before July 26. 
 On July 25 some small merchants were tied to columns with signs hung on their chests reading "Covetous greedy merchant." They were spat on and pelted with vegetables by security service men pretending to be ordinary shoppers. The daily newspapers confirmed the incident.
According to Babil (edited by Saddam Hussein's son Uday), "Most of our people were happy, rushing to the markets to see the covetous greedy merchants. Small signs were hung on their necks telling of their greed. . . . this action taken by the Government resulted in lowering prices and striking individual suspected merchants." Yet most people knew rising prices were not the fault of the merchants.
On July 26, the economic security police started a roundup of merchants. Up to 200 were detained in the economic security headquartes or in Abu Greab prison. Some were picked up from home. By an order from Saddam Hussein, 40 of them were executed (most probably shot) in the economic security headquarters, and their bodies were sent to Abu Greab prison to prepare their death certificates. Their eyes were donated to the human parts bank. All properties of the executed were confiscated.
The next day their families received the bodies with instructions not to perform the normal burial rituals, which include taking the dead to a large mosque and praying for their souls just before burial. Also, no funerals were allowed.
In addition, some 400 merchants were called to attend a "special urgent meeting" by the Ministry of Commerce. They were told by the Ministers of Commerce and the Interior that from now on for every infraction of the law the punishment would be execution. No fines or imprisonments as before, only executions. They were told, "If you don't like what you hear, then go to your homes and don't open your stores."
On the evening of July 26, Saddam Hussein was on television handing out medals to military personnel, commemorating their bravery in "the mother of all battles." He said that they had solved the problem of the "covetous greedy merchants" with "some necks." He added that he had been given a second list of profiteers, but he "had enough" for now. He was laughing during that ceremony after the executions -- a type of laughter last seen on television before the Kuwaiti invasion. People say he is always happy after killing his enemies.
I saw 40 percent of the food stores closed for the next two days after the executions. Then they were open after a rumor spread that the ruling Baath party members of each district would force open the stores and sell everything inside.
I saw a wholesale market area called Jamila surrounded by special forces with machine guns. The best description for the main market areas would be that the merchants were living dead, and the shoppers were ghosts. The market was abnormally quiet, none of the shouting, action or bargaining that is common in Middle Eastern markets. Merchants sat quietly in their stores, as if at a funeral, and small kids did the selling. People were trying to buy what was left in the markets since everything was disappearing, and prices were unchanged or increased in some cases. By July 31, there was hardly any rice, oil, flour or sugar.
One of the executed merchants, Haji Latif Basil al-Ubaidi, was a man who helped needy families. He was a respected figure of his community. He was executed with his son (around 20 years old). On the day the corpses of Haji Latif and his son were brought to their family, people from their district (Ahdamia) gathered to see what was going on. They wanted to take the bodies to the mosque of Imam al-Adam to pray for their souls. Rumor has it that they were chanting, "There is only one God, Haji Latif is God's martyr."
Special forces were there and started to shoot into the air and on some people to disperse the crowds. Some were injured. Haji Latif became the merchants' symbol of virtue.
This was the largest massacre in Baghdad after the Adnan al-Hamdani killings of 1979. I am surprised how little attention is given to this brutal slaughter. It seems Saddam Hussein has really succeeded in isolating Iraq from the rest of the world.
After finishing with the food merchants, Saddam Hussein moved to attack cloth merchants. On July 27, the merchants in the main cloth market were attacked with sticks by the economic security police. They asked about the prices of clothes and spraypainted high-priced displayed clothes with the prices they considered reasonable. All merchants in that area closed their stores and fled.
I don't know how to end this letter, except by saying the world must do something.
 
NAME WITHHELD
St.-Lambert, Quebec, Sept. 26, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: MINISTRY OF COMMERCE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICAL PRISONERS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); TRENDS (76%); FAMILY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



483 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 258 words

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Oct. 13

 BODY:
The Polaroid Corporation today reported higher third-quarter sales but substantially lower profits compared with the 1991 third quarter, when it received a huge payment from Eastman Kodak to settle a longstanding lawsuit.
Polaroid said it earned $27.7 million, or 59 cents a share, far below last year's quarterly profit of $582 million, or $10.47 a share. The 1991 period's results, however, were skewed by by the $873.1 million Polaroid received from Kodak to settle a patent-infringement suit involving instant cameras. 
 Without that payment, Polaroid would have reported a loss last year, meaning the latest report is an improvement.
Polaroid said its sales of $514.1 million in the third quarter represented 8 percent growth from $474.6 million a year earlier. United States sales slipped 1 percent, to $274.9 million from $278.1 million.
Operating profits -- which exclude taxes, interest payments and the Kodak settlement -- were up 25 percent, Polaroid said.
"In the third quarter, in the U.S., consumer purchases of Polaroid film and cameras increased," the company's president, MacAllister Booth, said in a statement. "Total U.S. sales revenue, however, remained flat as dealers continued to manage inventory levels in response to a sluggish economy."
The company also noted that it introduced a new auto-focus, single-lens instant reflex camera in the third quarter and would begin shipping the product this month.
Polaroid stock slipped 37.5 cents, closing at $31.625 a share today on the New York Stock Exchange.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 1992, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A brief article by Reuters in Business Day on Wednesday about the third-quarter earnings of the Polaroid Corporation misstated the effect of a patent-infringement settlement on Polaroid's results in the corresponding period of 1991. Excluding the settlement with the Eastman Kodak Company, Polaroid would still have had a profit in the 1991 quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EK (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (96%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: POLAROID CORP POLAROID CORP (96%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (74%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLAROID CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); LITIGATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); PATENT LAW (72%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (72%); PATENTS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



484 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: James Stockdale;
Reluctant Politician Tempers Professional Edge

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

 BODY:
His hands shook with nerves. He stammered. He paused in the middle of his opening statement to put on his reading glasses. His snow-white forelock kept falling in his eye. He missed one question because his hearing aid was off.
"Who am I?" James B. Stockdale asked at the beginning of last night's debate. "Why am I here? I'm not a politician." 
 In the political spotlight for the first time, Ross Perot's running mate, a retired Admiral who won a Medal of Honor for heroism as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam, was no match for the glib professional politicians he was competing with.
But there was some charm in this 68-year-old who uttered simplicities amid the bombast, sometimes addled but occasionally pointed. He changed the familiar cadence of the political debate. Without practiced skills and polished positions, he made the evening more awkward, less solemn.
Stationed between Vice President Dan Quayle and Senator Al Gore, Mr. Stockdale spent most of the evening swiveling his head -- "like an observer at a Ping Pong game," he said -- as the Republican and Democratic candidates went after each other.
 
Of Water Lilies and Incentives

 
 When Hal Bruno of ABC News, the moderator, called a cease-fire between Mr. Quayle and Mr. Gore so Mr. Stockdale could get a word in on the economy, he could only say, "I'm out of ammunition on this one."
But minutes later, he got in his best line of the night. As his opponents shook their fingers and lobbed statistics, Mr. Stockdale interjected: "I think America is seeing right now the reason this nation is in gridlock. The trickle-downs and the tax-and-spends, or whatever you want to call them, are at swords' points. We can't get the economy going."
In answer to a question about the environment, he said, "You can overdo environmental cleaning," he said. "If you purify the pond, water lilies die.
"I love this planet," he went on. "I don't want to see it the property of fanatics."
On education, he said simply, "In schools, bureaucracy is bad and economy is good."
On the question of health care, Mr. Gore huffed that if a criminal had a right to a lawyer, every family had a right to a doctor. Mr. Quayle puffed that legislation restricting medical malpractice was the key.
Mr. Stockdale referred to the problem was "a web of wrong-way incentives that has to be changed." Few experts would disagree. But, Mr. Stockdale seemed not to have a clue as to what the necessary changes might be.
Mr. Stockdale expressed impatience with what he called the pointless "chitchat back and forth on the issues," saying the candidates' character was more important.
His own character, he said, was shaped by his seven and a half years as a prisoner, the highest ranking officer incarcerated. He ran a "civilization" with its own laws and constitution, he said, adding, "I was the sovereign."
"The best thing I had going for me," he remarked, "was I had no contact with Washington all those years."
Mr. Stockdale seemed to have tried to memorize Mr. Perot's economic plan, but in his nervousness, he often had trouble recalling it and more trouble finding it in his notes.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore went on and on about the economy. Here, by contrast, is Mr. Stockdale's entire answer to a question about what should be done to get people back to work:
"The lifeblood of our economy is investment. And right now when we pay 350 -- we borrow $350 billion a year -- it saps the money markets, and the private investors are not getting their share. What we do is work on that budget by an aggressive program, not a painful program, so that we can start borrowing less money and getting more investment money on the street through entrepreneurs who can build factories, who will hire people, and maybe we'll start manufacturing goods here in this country again. That's my answer."
He used a question about the military budget to warn against unnamed people "who are really kicking the props out from under our grand military establishment."
On the abortion question, he had a clear answer. "I believe a woman owns her body and what she does with it is her own business. Period."
Mr. Quayle and Mr. Gore debated that issue for more than five minutes.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 14 about James B. Stockdale's performance in the Oct. 13 Vice-Presidential debate quoted his remark on education incorrectly. Mr. Stockdale said, "In schools, bureaucracy is bad and autonomy is good"; he did not say "economy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (57%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (67%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (63%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (60%); 

PERSON: STOCKDALE, JAMES BOND; GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992



485 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. WILL REQUIRE FULLER DISCLOSURE OF EXECUTIVE PAY

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Under pressure from lawmakers and shareholders who have criticized large executive salaries, the Securities and Exchange Commission will approve rules Thursday that will require publicly traded companies to disclose in full how much top executives earn and will make it easier for shareholders to challenge incumbent directors.
The regulations fall short of more ambitious corporate-democracy proposals made by stockholders, lawmakers and others over the years. Chief among these were plans to give stockholders a greater say in setting pay scales. 
 Nonetheless, the new rules were widely regarded by both corporate and shareholder groups and by regulators in Washington as a significant step toward opening board rooms to greater involvement by small as well as large shareholders.
 
Issue's Increasing Attention
 The issue of corporate-executive compensation has received increasing attention as the number of multimillion-dollar executive compensation packages has grown, even at a time of general economic recession, job layoffs and painfully slow recovery.
The issue came to the fore during President Bush's trip to Japan in January with senior auto company executives when the President complained that Japan imported so few American cars while America imported so many Japanese autos. The Japanese replied that the problem was the high cost of American products, which they said was caused by, among other things, high American executive salaries.
The average annual salary among senior executives at the top 30 Japanese companies was $525,000 at the time; among the top 30 Americans, it was $3.2 million. The highest salary and compensation packages reported by American companies last year went to Anthony F. O'Reilly, chief executive of the H. J. Heinz Company, who received $75.1 million in salary, bonus and stock options.
 
More Latitude Now
 Existing regulations give companies some latitude in describing the pay of senior executives, prompting many annual statements that are so confusing on the question of actual salaries and benefits that even business school professors and accountants have a hard time understanding them.
Senior officials at the agency said that under the new rules, which will be effective next year, companies will have to explain to stockholders how they determine pay and bonuses for senior executives and publish charts in their annual reports that compare the pay rates with the performance of stock prices.
Comparisons will also have to be made of the stock prices of either similar-sized companies, companies in the same industry or the price of various widely followed stock indexes.
And the companies will have to assign values to the stock options that the executives receive, either by using one of several formulas used by compensation experts or by providing a range of values pegged to possible changes in the company's stock price over future years. The options permit the executives to purchase stock at a set price over a certain number of years.
Conspiciously absent from the new rules are two proposals that would have had the greatest impact on excessive compensation of all those before the commission. One would let stockholders limit executive salaries. The other would require companies to reflect the executive stock options on company financial statements, by charging the options against earnings when the options are exercised. These options would end up costing the companies millions of dollars.
On the first point, the Democratic candidate for President, Gov. Bill Clinton, said earlier this month in response to questions by a shareholder group, that he supported letting shareholders "determine the compensation of top executives."
That idea was not seriously considered by the S.E.C., which is dominated by Republicans who are against adopting rules that would pre-empt the state corporation laws. The laws in all states now give the directors the ultimate say over pay issues.
Governor Clinton also supported legislation that would limit corporate tax deductions for salaries that are "excessive." Under the present law, corporations can deduct executive salaries as a business expense. Governor Clinton did not specify how the deductions would be limited.
Democrats in Congress introduced legislation this year to limit such deductions for executive pay over $1 million.
Officials in the Bush Administration are in general agreement with the commission's new proposals, although they disagree with some of its finer points. Deputy Treasury Secretary John E. Robson, himself a former chief executive of G. D. Searle & Company, has said for instance, that he does not think it is wise for companies to put values on the options granted to senior executives.
The new proxy regulations will make it easier for shareholders to communicate without the prior approval of regulators and reduce the costs and effort of obtaining mailing lists of other shareholders in certain circumstances.
Under the new regulations, large institutional shareholders will be able to tell others how they are voting without first obtaining permission from the commission, and shareholders holding less than $5 million of stock will also be able to wage written campaigns without the approval of agency officials.
All of the changes follow many months of study and intensive lobbying by both shareholder groups and many large corporations. The companies have tried to influence the agency's decision by pleading their cases to senior officials at the White House and Treasury Department.
Richard C. Breeden, chairman of the S.E.C., said in an interview today that the adoption of the regulations would mark "a watershed for corporate governance" and that the regulations were intended "to empower shareholders."
"The proposals would give the shareholders more information and then make it reasonably possible for them to do something about that information," he said in an interview. "The philosophy that underlies the proposals is that the people in the best position, if a company is deteriorating or stagnating, to do something about it are the people who own it.
"For too long, the Wall Street rule has been that if you don't like what's going on, sell out. That has made it difficult and expensive for shareholders."
The commission's lone Democrat, Richard Y. Roberts, said that the changes "will enable shareholders to be more active" and would probably head off legislation.
In February, the commission ruled that shareholders could seek votes on their views about pay packages. While the ballots are nonbinding, officials and corporate experts said the possibility of an embarrassing defeat provided a powerful incentive for directors to reassess the compensation of senior management.
The changes in the proxy rules were first proposed in June 1991 after years of study, and then withdrawn by the agency a few months later. They had run into heavy criticism by large corporations.
The opponents of the new rules -- most notably the Business Roundtable -- had insisted they would significantly alter the corporate landscape by giving large institutional shareholders more power.
 
A 'Big Victory'
 Shareholder supporters are generally pleased with what happened. "This gives us about 90 percent of what we expected to get in 1990 when we filed our petition for rule making," said Ralph V. Whitworth, president of the United Shareholders Association, a group based in Washington and founded by the oil executive T. Boone Pickens. "It's a big victory for us."
Dick Anthony, a spokesman for the Business Roundtable, said the organization would have no comment until the commission's final action Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (66%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (66%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (66%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) H J HEINZ CO (66%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; BONUSES; CORPORATIONS EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (93%); SHAREHOLDERS (92%); EXECUTIVES (91%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



486 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: North Korea's Military Feels Economic Pinch, U.S. Says

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
North Korea's military has significantly cut pilot training and ground exercises because of the nation's deteriorating economic condition, the commander of American forces in South Korea said today.
The commander, Gen. Robert RisCassi, said there appeared to be a "lessening of resources" available to the military under the hard-line Communist Government of President Kim Il Sung. 
 North Korea has a "marginal" ability to feed its people and depends on its weapons sales abroad "for the basic necessities of food and fuel," General RisCassi said. The nation's economic crisis began in 1989, when the Soviet Union demanded that all goods, in particular fuel, be paid for in hard currency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



487 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Off the Trail -- Visits With Americans;
Brew and a Juke Box Make Debate Easier to Swallow at One Cleveland Bar

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARMA, Ohio, Oct. 14

 BODY:
The backroad comforts of the Mama Mia lounge in this Cleveland suburb included draft beer to go with the live debate. There was a young couple spooning obliviously under the TV screen, and a man at the bar talking about "the illusion of the first time."
He was speaking of the art of debating, not spooning, and he talked back to the TV debaters, demonstrating how they might better mask all their nervous civics preparation and make memorization sound natural. "The boy stood on the burning deck, eating apples by the peck," intoned Richard N. Meadows, a speech and theater professor from across the road at Cuyahoga Community College. He made the classroom sound bite evoke Ronald Reagan speaking from his baritoned heart, right to the hideaway voters at Mama Mia's. 
 But the TV screen was definitely resisting the illusion of the first time. The Vice-Presidential boys were standing toe to toe on their own burning deck, and the Mama Mia clientele were in various stages of paying attention or not, staring into their beer, or maybe into the nation's future.
 
An Overriding Theme
 Debate night in America can be an exercise in diffusion, a free-fall through the hustings void of sound scraps and sadly drifting agendas. There was some consensus at Mama Mia's (Dan Quayle has used nearly four years of incumbency to upgrade his nervous giggle into a self-confident laugh). And there was an overriding theme to the cacaphonous night ("Dave, when you have a chance?" was shouted steadily, thirstily at the bartender, David Reinosa).
But most of all there was a fractured spectrum of voter involvement and disinterest that might have made Alexis de Tocqueville fear for the latest version of the Republic, yet fascinate him anew at how decisions come of all this.
"Marge, I'm sorry," a young man with his back to the event fairly sobbed at a waitress who passed him by, pert and silent. "I forgot all about Sunday and I'm sorry, Marge," the young man pleaded over the TV melange of pointed fingers and raised voices. Marge continued on, carrying libation and some sort of secret as Dan Quayle kept demanding that Al Gore explain why Bill Clinton was worth trusting.
Staring at the screen, two men at a nearby table were engrossed and wondering about the election's implications for their local home-building business. The telephone beeper of one of them, Timothy Shear, suddenly cut across the buzz of candidates' talk. When he returned from the phone Mr. Shear laughed in quoting the quick query of a friend watching the debate elsewhere. "Who is this guy?" the caller had asked of the awkward performance of the evening's third candidate, James B. Stockdale.
 
An Uneasy Question
 Mr. Shear and his partner, Frank Spinelli, agreed that Ross Perot, a supersalesman if nothing else, would have to explain at his next debate the precise attraction of Mr. Stockdale.
"Are you afraid of someone who's a great salesman?" Mr. Shear asked, getting at what he thinks may be the heart of this year's disturbing campaign, the strange pleasure and curiosity Mr. Perot is engendering once more in the land.
"You hear comments like that in selling in our business: 'You make so much sense it scares me.' Well, could the fact that Perot is a great salesman have to do with the fact that he is listening very carefully and giving the people what they want?" Mr. Shear asked, sounding uneasy at not being sure.
Some dissenter down the bar suddenly put money in the juke box and turned the music up loud.
"Should pull the plug on that guy," said Mickey Florentino, an executive in a temporary-help agency who is doing well in the hurting economy. "How does a guy sitting here know who's telling the truth?" he asked, staring at the debaters. "That guy in the middle doesn't know what to do," he added rather sympathetically of Mr. Stockdale. "And people earning 200-thou a year are going to find a way around all the talk of taxes, right?"
 
Some Optimistic Talk
 His friend, Phil Bova, directed an aside to the bartender, "David, when you have chance?" Then he talked optimistically above the music about the debate winking from the screen. "Listen, the future is right here," Mr. Bova insisted from his bar stool. "These guys are going to be calling the shots, leading America, and it's good this is coming right into the front room."
"You know, a lot of wonderful guys died in wars so we could have this," he added, his beer glass glistening with reflections from the debate.
Down the bar, Mr. Meadows, the speech teacher, was savoring the headlong technique of Mr. Quayle's performance. "This is a chance for him to redeem himself," the professor said. "How many of us get a second chance?"
Another helping of music rose up again over the debate, and a thin, bearded man at the juke box beamed in malicious satisfaction.
"I see spooky guys like that, playing rap music," Mr. Shear commented. "They don't understand the ramifications, can't see the changes happening in the world. The Berlin wall has come down, the cold war has ended, and anything can happen. Hey, Ross Perot could be elected President."
Whatever, David the bartender kept to his rounds, and the rap music barely allowed the final words in edgewise as the debate wound down at Mama Mia's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (91%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PARMA (OHIO) UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (71%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



488 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 70 words

HEADLINE: Senators' Plea for Russia

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Thirty-two senators, 16 from each party, have signed a letter urging the International Monetary Fund to ease conditions for aiding the former Soviet republics, saying the demands could prevent reform. The I.M.F. holds that Russia, to qualify for the first $1 billion of about $4 billion in credits, must cut its budget deficit to 5 percent of the gross domestic product and reduce monthly inflation below 10 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); INFLATION (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (85%); BUDGET DEFICITS (83%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



489 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Bush Camp Using Tax Office To Attack Clinton Proposals

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Over the years, the Treasury Department's Office of Tax Analysis has operated like the Census Bureau and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, sources of reliable data with no overtones of partisan politics.
But this year, the Bush Administration has used the tax office's staff and computers to generate questionable assessments of Gov. Bill Clinton's tax proposals. 
 Desiree Tucker-Sorini, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Public Affairs, defended the new procedures today. "It is our job to analyze economic proposals and their implications on tax policy," regardless of where the proposals come from, she said.
But John E. Chapoton, who headed the tax office in the first Reagan Administration, said he had never before heard of the office becoming involved in a political campaign. "It disturbs me," Mr. Chapoton said. "It's not wise to do anything that compromises the trust people have in the office as completely objective."
Last month, the head of the tax office, Fred T. Goldberg Jr., Assistant Treasury Secretary for Tax Policy, called reporters to his office and said the Treasury Department's calculations showed that the Clinton policies could increase the taxes of Americans with incomes as low as $20,000 a year.
Mr. Clinton maintains that he would raise the taxes only of couples with incomes of more than $200,000 and individuals with incomes above about $150,000. The Treasury's computer calculations were based on unprovable assumptions provided by President Bush's election campaign.
Mr. Goldberg was joined by two other Assistant Treasury Secretaries, Ms. Tucker-Sorini and Hollis S. McLoughlin, who serves as chief of staff for Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady. They spoke then only on the condition that their names not be used. Two days later, the three went to the Bush-Quayle campaign headquarters and made the same sweeping assertions under the same condition.
Reporters who did not attend the sessions are not bound by the attribution condition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; OFFICE OF TAX ANALYSIS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; INCOME TAX TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (94%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); CENSUS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



490 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Pulse -- Florida;
In Formerly Safe Florida, It's Nip and Tuck for Bush

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 14

 BODY:
It has come to this for George Bush with less than three weeks left until Election Day: He could quite conceivably lose Florida, the nation's fourth largest state, which he carried by almost a million votes four years ago and which has been the safest of all the megastates for the Republicans in recent Presidential elections.
The President trails Bill Clinton by a substantial margin in places where they were supposed to be slugging it out at this stage, like Pennsylvania and Illinois and New Jersey. But the race for this state's 25 electoral votes remains very close, if private polls for the two major parties are to be believed, so Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton keep returning to Florida. In mid-October 1988, Michael S. Dukakis pulled his campaign staff from the state, conceding it to Mr. Bush, who did not visit these parts at all after Labor Day. 
 Mr. Bush may yet carry the state. Inured to defeat, local Democrats "don't dare get all that excited about winning," said Lieut. Gov. Buddy MacKay, a Democrat, "but it could just happen."
If it does, it will happen largely because Florida's seemingly inexhaustible boom has proved to have limits, even in Orlando, which has been transformed in less than 40 years from a sleepy orange-grove town of 50,000 into the world's leading tourist destination, with 76,000 hotel rooms, the most of any city in the nation.
 
Recession Changes Politics
 In wealthy Naples on the southern Gulf Coast, unemployment has reached 13 percent. In the high-tech plants spawned by the Kennedy Space Center, workers "know they only have a year or 18 months left before the defense cutbacks get them," a union official said. Retirees in St. Petersburg and elsewhere fret because the monthly payments from their certificates of deposit and money market funds have withered. And all over the state, the banks are in the doldrums and the real estate goose has stopped laying golden eggs.
"The recession has changed the politics of Florida," commented Geoffrey Garin, a Washington poll taker who works for local Democrats.
"Unhappily for us, there's a smoke screen that covers Clinton, and it's called the economy," said Stan Smith, a Tampa-area consultant for Republican candidates. "While it's there, you can't get people to see Clinton's faults, let alone convince them to vote against him, and Bush hasn't been able to find a way to blow it away."
Tommy Thomas of Lakeland, a prominent Republican since his days as national committeeman in the Nixon era, has been predicting trouble for the President for months. He appealed publicly but vainly to Mr. Bush last summer to drop Vice President Dan Quayle from the ticket as a means of showing that he took the nation's problems seriously.
"I wish he had done it," Mr. Thomas said, "and I'm afraid that he's going to wish he had done it, too. The problem is that no matter what he talks about, people want to know why it took him so long to wake up. It's a crying shame, but we're no better than 50-50, and he could surely lose this state. It chills my bones to think of four years of 'Slick Willie,' but that's coming, I guess."
Jeb Bush, a Miami businessman and the President's son, is his campaign chairman in Florida. He said in an interview this week that he thought his father would take Florida, but he readily conceded that there was still a good deal of work for the President to do.
"Voters here need to be given the assurance that the energy and talent that were brought to bear on world problems in the last four years are going to be focused on our country's long-term economic problems in the years ahead," he said. "I really believe that there is a large reservoir of goodwill toward Dad. But if we are going to win, we have to increase the level of confidence in him.
"We need some kind of breakthrough, and we need it soon."
Breaking through is harder when there are constant setbacks. Radio and television stations in the state routinely describe Mr. Bush as the loser in the first Presidential debate, which does nothing to dispel the suggestion, strong even here, that Mr. Clinton may be heading for a landslide victory.
There is no suggestion that Ross Perot, despite his strong showing in the first face-off, has much of a chance to win here.
Jack Gargan, the founder of a grass-roots voter organization based in Tampa, said he was still bothered by Mr. Perot's surprise decision to pull out of the race in July and his equally sudden decision this month to rejoin it. He added, "That was fatal unless he can come clean convincingly."
Van Poole, the Republican state chairman, said the debates would have little impact until all of them had been completed, and for that reason, he theorized, "the decision process is going to be completed very late, as late as the last weekend."
"A lot of people say they're for Clinton, but they can't really tell you why they're for him," Mr. Poole said, in a comment typical of Republican professionals around the country this fall, seeking to keep hopes high. "I think they're agonizing over how to go. They want change, but they're afraid that Clinton's change will end up meaning higher taxes."
 
Democrats Are More Organized
 The Republicans have been training for 18 months for a huge grass-roots effort in the final weeks, involving phone banks and get-out-the-vote campaigns. Since 1988, they have cut still further into the traditional Democratic edge in voter registration, increasing their own numbers by 200,000 while the Democratic total has fallen by 50,000. In a state with a large number of military families, they have put together a sophisticated absentee-ballot operation, like the one that snatched victory from Mr. MacKay in the 1988 Senate race and handed it to Connie Mack 3d, a Republican, by only 35,000 votes.
But Richard Sher, a political science professor at the University of Florida, says the Democrats are much less disorganized this year than is usually the case in this diverse state, which has five or six major population concentrations and intense regional rivalries in the state.
"We haven't seen anything like this in a long, long time," Mr. Sher said. "In the 1988 primary, Gore was completely out-organized in Florida, but he has built close ties since then. I must say that Clinton has also shown a real talent for political spadework, and for the first time in years you see local candidates clustering around the two of them when they visit the state."
Mr. Clinton has not yet put a significant amount of money into television advertising, although radio commercials are running in several cities. Mr. MacKay said that if Mr. Bush's television campaign, which is only now beginning, proved to be substantial, the Democrats had money available "to do what we need to do, which is unusual."
 
Regional Disparities
 The President's strongest regions are the Panhandle, the deeply conservative east-west strip of Florida that abuts Georgia and Alabama and shares their political culture; Dade County, centered on Miami, which is now slightly more than 50 percent Hispanic, and the Gulf Coast towns from Clearwater south, which are heavily populated by retirees from the Midwest.
Mr. Clinton is stronger in other parts of the state, and appears to be scoring among women and younger voters. Jay Hakes, a longtime Democratic strategist, said that Mr. Bush's assaults on the Arkansas Governor's antiwar activities "may have given him some lift among older voters, but it has infuriated the baby boomers."
The so-called I-4 Corridor, which runs from Tampa Bay to the Atlantic Coast, passing near Orlando, Ocala and Gainesville, may prove decisive. Most people settled in that area to take up jobs, not to retire. They are younger than the state average. Many are Reagan Democrats whose views have been affected by the state's economic woes.
Mr. Clinton's and Mr. Gore's big campaign event in Florida was a bus tour early this month with an itinerary that covered the I-4 corridor. They drew huge crowds, even in Republican strongholds like Ocala, where perhaps 10,000 people filled a rodeo arena, and the mood was exuberant. The President's crowds have been much more subdued.
"People have been waiting and waiting for the President to give them a reason to vote for him," said Bob Joffee of Mason-Dixon Political Research, which is based here. "As we get closer and he doesn't do it, a lot of people are starting to give up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The race for Florida's 25 electoral votes remains very close as retirees in St. Petersburg and elsewhere fret because the monthly payments from their certificates of deposit and money market funds have withered. Elderly people rested yesterday outside a center in St. Petersburg. (Ricardo J. Ferro for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "A Fragmented State and Politics"
 
Florida's fragmented politics reflects its racial, ethnic and linguistic mix. The state gained four Congressional seats and has new districts with black and Hispanic majorities. Carrie Meek, a Democrat, is assured of becoming Florida's first black assured of becoming Florida's first black in Congress since Reconstruction. Senator Bob Graham, who was on Bill Clinton's list for No. 2, has been a top fund-raiser, gathering $2.2 million by August.
 
Population
 
1980: 9,746,324
Other: 2.2%
Black: 13.8%
White: 84.0%
Hispanic origin: 8.8%
 
1990: 12,937,926
 
Other: 3.3%
Black: 13.6%
White: 83.1%
Hispanic origin: 12.2%
 
People of Hispanic origin can be of any race.
 
Registered Voters
 
AUGUST 1988: 5,716,157
 
Other: 6.7%
Republicans: 38.4%
Democrats: 54.9%
 
AUGUST 1992: 6,080,374
 
Other: 7.8%
Republicans: 40.9%
Democrats: 51.3%
 
How Florida Has Voted in Presidential Elections
 
1976
 
Ford: 46.6%
Carter: 51.9%
 
1980
 
Reagan: 55.5%
Carter: 38.5%
 
1984
 
Reagan: 65.3%
Mondale: 34.7%
 
1988
 
Bush: 60.9%
Dukakis: 38.5%
 
Per Capita Income
 
1991 figures are the most recent available and are not adjusted for inflation.
 
1988
 
Fla.: $16,637
U.S.: $16,618
 
1991
 
Fla: $18,992
U.S.: $19,092
 
Unemployment
 
Sept. 1988
 
Fla.: 4.9%
U.S.: 5.3%
 
Sept. 1992
 
Fla.: 8.9%
U.S.: 7.5%
 
(Sources: Cenusu Bureau; Florida Secretary ofState, Elections Division; American Votes; U.S. Commerce Department, Bureau of Economic Analysis; U.S. Labor Department, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
1
16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (99%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NAPLES, FL, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GULF COAST WATER AUTHORITY (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA, USA (99%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NAPLES, FL, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US LABOR DAY (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (62%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (62%); TOURISM (51%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



491 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-RUSSIA ACCORD ON ARMS HITS SNAG

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Hopes for an early signing of a far-reaching nuclear arms reduction agreement between the United States and Russia have faded because of technical reservations being raised by Moscow, Bush Administration officials said today.
On June 16 in Washington, President Bush and the Russian President, Boris N. Yeltsin, initialled an arms control agreement that would, among other things, eliminate all of Russia's most powerful SS-18 multiple warhead missiles. A week later, then Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d testified to Congress that the accord would likely be translated into a treaty in three to five weeks, but at the latest by Sept. 1. Now, most officials say, it won't be finished until sometime after the election at the earliest. 
 At this point, officials say, there is no indication that the Russians have any intention of reneging on the deal. The Russian Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, has repeatedly stressed that his Government wants to complete it quickly. Nevertheless, United States officials say there is a degree of uncertainty within the Administration over exactly why the Russians have suddenly raised the possibility in negotiations among technical experts whether they could retain SS-18 missile silos and some SS-19 missiles seemingly proscribed by the draft agreement.
 
Issue in Debate
 The delay has become a political issue. At Tuesday's Vice Presidential debate, the Democratic candidate, Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, declared that after President Bush shifted his main negotiator, James A. Baker 3d, from the State Department to White House chief of staff, "the deal unravelled, and now there is no deal at all."
Vice President Dan Quayle did not dispute Mr. Gore's assertion, but responded that Mr. Bush still has a "commitment" from Mr. Yeltsin to carry out the deal.
Russia and the United States now have about 22,500 warheads. Last year, the Soviet Union and the United States signed a strategic arms reduction treaty, known as Start, that will reduce their combined arsenals to about 15,000 warheads altogether by the year 2000. Then in June, Mr. Bush and Mr. Yeltsin agreed in principle to far-reaching additional cuts that would reduce to their combined arsenals to about 7,000 warheads, or roughly 3,500 each, by the year 2003. It is this second accord, known as Start II, that is being delayed.
According to Administration officials and other arms control experts, the delay in the production of a formal treaty is nothing more than the usual kind of problem that arises in arms control negotiations when experts try to take the broad outlines of an agreement reached by the politicians and translate it into highly technical treaty language. The military bureaucracies on both sides tend to try to minimize the effect on them by quibbling over wording.
 
Russians Wait for Election
 Less benign interpretations about what is causing the delay relate to political developments in Moscow. One is that the Russians would simply like to see who wins the American election before they sign, maybe even hoping that they can get better terms out of a Democratic Administration.
Another interpretation is that the Russians are worried about opposition to the treaty from hard-line nationalists in their own Parliament and military. This agreement has been criticized by some Russian hard-liners ever since Mr. Yeltsin initialed it. Since the Yeltsin Government is about to submit the Start I treaty to the Russian Parliament for ratification this week, it may prefer not to ask the Parliament to approve even deeper arms cuts.
Still another interpretation is that the objections the Russians have raised really are purely to save money. But some American officials suspect that even this economic argument masks political motives by hard-liners in the military to renegotiate the deal.
Mr. Kozyrev gave Russian questions and proposed changes to the American draft of the agreement to Acting Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger at a meeting on Sept. 24. But Mr. Kozyrev also raised at least two other objections to the agreement that are potentially more serious. These objections were repeated when a team of American arms control experts visited Moscow last week.
One has to do with the SS-18 missiles, the largest intercontinental ballistic missiles in the Russian arsenal, each of which carries 10 warheads.
The Russians are now asking to retain the silos from which these SS-18's are launched. They want to modify these silos for use by others that they will be allowed to retain under the treaty, most likely the mobile SS-25.
Although American officials acknowledge that destroying or building new missile silos is an expensive process, they say they could not accept a Russian request to retain them given the possibility that these silos could still be used to launch SS-18's.
The other proposed change at which the Americans are balking has to do with Russia's six-warhead SS-19 missile. The new agreement bans all such multiple-warhead missiles and Russia wants to be able simple to take five warheads off the top of each SS-19. That way they can live up to the letter of the treaty without scrapping the SS-19's and go through the expense of building a new, single-warhead missile.
But if the SS-19 is just stripped down to one warhead, it would still have the potential to simply be reloaded with the full six missiles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (64%); RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (64%); RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); TESTIMONY (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



492 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: In Crown Heights Murder Trial, Witness Says Hasid Started Fight

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

 BODY:
In an account that differed sharply from previous testimony about the moments leading up to the killing of Yankel Rosenbaum, a man from Crown Heights testified yesterday that he had seen the Hasidic student step out of a car, argue with several young men and kick them before they pummeled him.
The man, John Anderson, 24 years old, an unemployed clerk, was a surprise witness on the first day of the defense case in the murder trial of Lemrick Nelson Jr. Prosecutors contend that Mr. Nelson, who is charged with second-degree murder, emerged from a group assaulting Mr. Rosenbaum and stabbed him to death during the racial violence in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, in August 1991. 
 In his testimony yesterday Mr. Anderson also said that he did not see Mr. Rosenbaum fall to the ground or see anyone stab him. Mr. Anderson said he was standing across the street from the attack and saw Mr. Rosenbaum chase several youths who had assaulted him before the police went to help him.
In cross-examination an assistant district attorney, James Leeper, focused on the inconsistencies between Mr. Anderson's testimony and that of at least nine witnesses who have testified in the last three weeks. Prosecution witnesses have said Mr. Rosenbaum was attacked as he was returning home, the random victim of a crowd of youths seeking revenge for the death hours earlier of a 7-year-old black boy who was hit by a car in the entourage of the Lubavitch Grand Rabbi.
 
At Accident and in Crowd
 Police officers have testified that crowds of youths angered by the death of the boy, Gavin Cato, ran through the streets of Crown Heights throwing bricks and bottles, firing guns and overturning cars. One group attacked Mr. Rosenbaum.
Mr. Anderson's account was sharply at odds with that testimony. He said that he had been at the scene of the car accident and that he had been part of the crowd of youths on the streets.
Mr. Anderson, who could not remember any names of the people accompanying him, said that the crowd was peaceful and that Mr. Rosenbaum had instigated the attack. "Nobody threw rocks," he said. "If a car flipped over, I didn't see it." He added that he remained at the scene of the attack and was stopped by the police and taken to be identified by Mr. Rosenbaum, who, Mr. Anderson said, was standing up, and not lying down, as the prosecution contends.
"I saw people throw punches at his back," Mr. Anderson said. "I didn't see anyone stab him. I refused to run because I didn't do nothing." Mr. Anderson added that Mr. Rosenbaum told the officers it was impossible for him to identify his attackers because "he couldn't see nobody."
The prosecution has contended that Mr. Rosenbaum identified Mr. Nelson by his red shirt. Mr. Anderson said that at least three people including him were wearing red shirts and that several youths were taken to Mr. Rosenbaum to see if he could identify any of them.
Mr. Anderson was the defense's second witness. The first was Gavin Cato's father, Carmel. His voice breaking, Mr. Cato briefly described how he had tried unsuccessfully to lift the car off his son and how Gavin had died at the hospital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; TRIALS; BLACKS (IN US); JEWS; HASIDISM ; RACIAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS WITNESSES (93%); MURDER (91%); RELIGION (91%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); RACE & RACISM (74%); RIOTS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (64%); 

PERSON: LORCH, DONATELLA; ANDERSON, JOHN (CROWN HEIGHTS RESIDENT); ROSENBAUM, YANKEL; NELSON, LEMRICK JR JOHN ANDERSON (95%); GAVIN CATO (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



493 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The S.E.C. plans to require full disclosure of executive compensation under new rules to be approved today. [Page A1.]
Clark Clifford's lawyers will seek dismissal of criminal charges against the 85-year-old Washington lawyer in a New York case involving B.C.C.I., citing his frail heart. [D1.]
Auto makers reported a 6.1 percent sales rise for domestically produced vehicles in early October, paced by light trucks. [D6.]
Retail sales edged three-tenths of 1 percent higher in September, and the Producer Price Index for finished goods also climbed three-tenths of 1 percent. [D7.]
Stock exchange floors are known for pranks, but the Pacific Exchange has decided to stop the horseplay with fines. [D1.]
Domestic oil output fell 5 percent in September from September 1991, to just under seven million barrels a day, the A.P.I. said, showing increasing reliance on imported oil. [D12.]
 
International
Japan's trade surplus surged to a record in September, despite Government pledges to tame the beast. [D1.]
Fed chairman Alan Greenspan offered sobering comments on slow growth after meeting with Japan's economic officials. [D2.]
 
Companies
Hertz plans to cut its charges for one-way car rentals for nonbusiness travelers, to stimulate new trips and lure customers both from other car rental companies and other transport. [D1.]
Earnings of large banking companies are surging, with interest rates low and their problems with delinquent loans having abated. Gains include, Bank of New York, 66 percent; Wachovia, 21 percent, and First Fidelity, 49 percent. [D5.]
Coke reported hot sales despite cold weather with an 18.5 percent profit rise. [D5.]
CBS posted third-quarter net of $42.7 million in contrast to a $169.1 million loss a year earlier resulting from sports contracts. [D23.] Gannett had a 34.5 percent rise to $80 million. [D23.]
Ames Department Stores sued its investment banker Wertheim Schroder, alleging breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the bankrupt retailer's 1988 purchase of rival Zayre. [D6.]
Gerber shares slumped $2 to $35, after the baby food maker warned that profits would trail Wall Street expectations. [D5.]
Thinking Machines has thought of a bargain -- a massively parallel supercomputer priced below $1 million. [D5.]
Brian Garraway will head Lloyd's of London's new regulatory board. He is deputy chairman of B.A.T. Industires. [D6.]
 
Markets
I.B.M. shares fell 3/4 to 78, dragging down the market, ahead of its earnings report. The Dow industrials lost 5.94 points. [D12.]
The municipal bond market managed to digest a $1.3 billion California offering won by a group led by Merrill Lynch. Treasuries rallied. [D19.] Money market fund yields fell. [D11.]
Natural gas futures prices surged on forecasts of cold Midwestern weather. [D20.] The dollar settled mostly lower. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
The next President will face pressure to apply a fiscal lever to the flat economy. Economists suggest grants to states and localities, investment tax credits, employment subsidies and a first-time home buyer's credit. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Analysts expect significant domestic steel price increases as a result of trade litigation. Market Place. [D12.]
The leading brewing companies are increasingly focusing their commercials on the taste of their beer, rather than on less tangible imagery. Advertising. [D23.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (62%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (62%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (62%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (54%); AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); RETAILERS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BABY FOODS INDUSTRY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (76%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); NATURAL GAS (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); FUTURES (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); SPECIALTY CANNING (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); BUSINESS TORTS (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); BOND MARKETS (63%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



494 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Says Economy Is Resisting Remedies

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 14

 BODY:
After three days of consultations with Japan's top economic officials, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, offered a sobering thought today: he emphasized repeatedly at a news conference that one of the most troubling aspects of these difficult times is that the tried and true methods of economic analysis and the old monetary tools just do not seem to be working.
"No models can explain the types of patterns we are having," Mr. Greenspan said, referring to the sluggish economic growth in the United States and elsewhere despite the fact that interest rates have been cut sharply in most countries. "This is really a quite extraordinarily difficult type of environment." 
 It was a surprising note of frustration from one of the world's most influential central bankers. But it was an apparent reflection of the difficulty the Fed has faced in trying to pull the American economy out of its rut. One official said Mr. Greenspan's comments were similar to those he had shared in a closed meeting with Yasushi Mieno, governor of the Bank of Japan, who is also grappling with an anemic economy and ailing banking sector.
 
Unusually Reflective
 Central bankers tend to be elliptical and vague in their public remarks, in an effort to avoid disrupting financial markets or giving notice of changes in interest rates. And Mr. Greenspan is a master of responding at length and reasonably to questions, while giving away nothing.
But he seemed unusually reflective today in his remarks, made after a routine visit to meet with Japanese officials. While there had been speculation that he might organize a concerted reduction in interest rates with the Bank of Japan, officials said the visit had been planned since April and was just an opportunity to exchange views.
Mr. Greenspan said he had agreed to keep the details of the discussions here confidential but indicated that he had talked about the world economic situation and the foreign exchange market, which has gone through weeks of turmoil, as well as the coordination of economic policies among the major industrialized nations.
The two sides also discussed, he said, the problem of what is called "asset deflation," or the sharp declines in real estate prices in the United States and Japan in recent years and the impact of these declines on banks.
 
Voicing Frustration
 But after dodging a number of questions about exchange rates and interest rates, Mr. Greenspan took some time at the news conference this afternoon to note that the policy makers' methods for analyzing the American economy, developed and proved in the postwar period, were simply failing to guide the Fed as surely as they once had.
Mr. Greenspan has commented before on the unusual challenge the Fed is facing in trying to steer the economy through this drawn-out slowdown while the banking system is weak and businesses and individuals are still burdened with too much debt. But an aide confirmed that he elaborated on the frustrations and the sense of being adrift at somewhat greater length than before.
Not everything has changed, Mr. Greenspan insisted, but "they've changed enough that reliance on the old models is inadequate."
He added, "We are being forced to look at different structures."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF JAPAN (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; ECONOMICS CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TRENDS (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (65%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



495 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Televising the Recession: Job Fair on L.I. Is Broadcast Live

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PLAINVIEW, L.I., Oct 14

 BODY:
It is perhaps a sign of the times that Barry Zimbler, already a few months behind on his mortgage and desperate to take almost any job, went on television tonight wearing a crisp white shirt, staring glumly at the camera and talking about his experience in a "multifaceted position" with a small Manhattan jewelry manufacturer.
"I was there approximately 13 years," he said in a monotone, as his name, his job title, director of computer operations and identification number, 103, flashed across the screen. "I was recently let go and I have been seeking employment ever since. Thank you very much."
 
One in 10 Jobs Gone
 As the recession continues to take its toll, wiping out nearly one out of 10 jobs in the New York metropolitan area, Mr. Zimbler, out of work for more than 18 months, turned to the airwaves tonight, in a rare television campaign to reach out to the casualties of the economy. 
 For two hours of live television, WLIW, a public television station here that reaches most households in the metropolitan area, set aside its regular programming for a televised hiring hall, at which private employers, government officials and social-service agencies worked together to match workers with jobs.
There on camera were the phone banks and the local celebrities, familiar from countless public-television membership drives. But this time, instead of recording membership pledges and credit-card numbers, rows of volunteers were taking down job listings that were quickly read on the air, followed by the video resumes of people like Mr. Zimbler.
There was Gordon Steele, number 104, who was laid off as chief budget officer in the Nassau County Parks Department, two weeks shy of the 20 years of service he needed for full pension benefits. He is 57 years old and has been looking for work since February.
"I am looking for a job in a management capacity," he said, "and I would like to thank you for this opportunity, and maybe you would like me to come and work for you."
Or Roberta Livingston, number 107, a marketing manager who helped build up sales at a BJ's Wholesale Club in Farmingdale until her job was "consolidated." Her husband, also in marketing, is working only occasionally, she said.
Now she is looking for a job in a "smallish to medium-size company, where I can make a difference."
"I always project a positive attitude," she said. "I can increase the demand of any product or service and I would love an opportunity to work for you."
Hundreds of job openings turned up, paying from minimum wage to $94,000 a year. Computer Associates, a software company with headquarters in Islandia, L.I., had openings for a lawyer, an accountant and computer operators. Metropolitan Life wanted manager trainees and account representatives.
 
Friendly Persuasion
 The idea of the fair was to use the friendly persuasion of television to persuade employers to call not only with jobs that appeared in classified ads, but also with jobs they had not yet advertised, or with hiring proposals that had been sitting on someone's desk for final approval.
"We hope that if an employer is considering maybe hiring a secretary or sales person that this will sort of egg them on to do so," said Dara Welles, the producer and host of the program.
Between job offers, read by a team of volunteer announcers from three New York commercial-television stations, the job fair offered advice on job hunting, resumes, financial planning and where to get help. Each offer was followed by a code number that viewers could use to get more information from the State Department of Labor.
Long Island United Way was on the air offering its guide to the recession, Help for Hard Times, and listing services that ranged from mortgage-default counseling to measures against domestic violence.
"We have an emerging population that is now in need," said John Renyhart, senior vice president for Long Island United Way. "People who enjoyed the good life on Long Island are now unemployed. People who used to give to our food pantries are now the people who are going there to ask for assistance."
 
Tried in San Diego
 A similar job fair was first tried last winter in San Diego on a commercial television station, KGTV, which devoted several hours of prime time to the effort.
"We had an annual toy drive and, for once, we found the gold was off of California," said Don Lundy, the station's program director. "So we did some research and we were told it was bad and it was going to get worse."
In a few hours, he said, 800 job offers were collected, most of them soon filled, and since then they have found 3,500 more jobs, he said. The station runs free video resumes every weekday morning.
The idea was picked up by Nassau County officials, struggling to find a way to fight the worst recession on Long Island since the postwar building boom. The County Executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, took it to the television station, the business community and social-service agencies.
Thirty percent of all manufacturing jobs, most related to military production, and a third of all construction jobs have disappeared since the late 1980's.
Yet Gary Huth, an economist with the State Department of Labor, said that with layoffs declining, this was a good time to hold a job fair.
"I don't think that companies are going to hire people because they look good on a telethon," he said. "But companies may be on the verge of hiring anyway. A lot of the groundwork for an improvement in the economy has been laid. This could be a psychological boost."
 
Compelling Moments
 But the most compelling moments came when unemployed New Yorkers told their stories through video resumes lasting 45 seconds or less.
There was LuAnn Vivona (number 105), a flight attendant laid off by Continental Airlines; Brian Cavanagh (number 101), who is "available to work in your credit department," and Charmaine Hemmings (number 106), seeking to conduct workshops on empowerment for women and diversity in the workplace.
But Mr. Zimbler, well groomed, calm, but with the look of a deer staring into the headlights of a car, told the most troubling story of all.
After 13 years running the computer system and other operations in a small family-owned jewelry factory, he was abruptly dismissed, by overnight letter, from his $55,000-a-year job, virtually without explanation, struggling to pay his $1,600 mortgage.
Now, in desperation, he has applied for warehouse work, only to be turned down, he says, because he is "overqualified."
"You can't sound desperate with these people," he said. "They know that if they hire you, you are going to leave when a better job opens up."
In the meantime, he and his wife, a hairdresser, are down to bare essentials, living without health insurance, spending his retirement account, borrowing the limit on credit cards, and abandoning any thought of vacations.
When his wife of three years had a miscarriage last year, they were devastated, but now Mr. Zimbler wonders whether it was for the best.
"We've lived very well," he said. "All of a sudden to have the hammer fall down and hit you on the head is unbearable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gordon Steele, a 47-year-old laid-off Nassau County parks official, as he appeared on a televised hiring hall on WLIW in Plainview, L.I.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WLIW (TV STATION) BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (52%); CA INC (50%); NEW YORK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WLIW (TV STATION) NEW YORK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (93%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); FUNDRAISING (68%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (60%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (57%); 

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH BARRY ZIMBLER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



496 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Right Jolt: A Fiscal Menu

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
UNLESS unemployment falls very fast, very soon -- a prospect only slightly more likely than a Nobel Peace Prize for Pat Buchanan -- the next President will be under enormous pressure to give the economy a fiscal lift. But how?
That old favorite, public works spending, conjures images of gents in sharkskin suits swapping Cadillacs for contracts to build highways to nowhere. Even if these images of waste and corruption are dated, the economists' critique of creating jobs by pouring concrete still stands: "It just takes too long to turn them on," said George Perry of the Brookings Institution. 
 An across-the-board income tax cut, by contrast, could put money in people's pockets as fast as payroll deductions can be reprogrammed. But with the Federal budget hopelessly out of balance and Wall Street sniffing the wind for signs of inflation, Washington would be at pains to set a tight time limit on the largess -- say, 18 months. And the evidence suggests that a relatively small portion of any temporary windfall in take-home pay would be spent.
What is left? Plenty, in the view of economists itching to prove that an active fiscal policy still has a place in an era of $300 billion-plus budget deficits.
Grants to states and localities. No-strings Federal revenue sharing got a bad name in the 1970's because some governments used the cash for frills, or simply passed it through to residents as tax cuts. But the worm has turned. In the 1980's, Washington began demanding that localities provide expensive new services, notably health care, from their own resources. And these Federal mandates are proving particularly unwelcome in a recession that has drained local treasuries, forcing cutbacks in everything from library hours to pothole repair.
This largely explains why Robert Solow of M.I.T. and James Tobin of Yale have been pressing for across-the-board increases in aid to states and cities. Much of the money would be spent promptly, they believe -- and, most likely, on services that had earlier met the test of local taxpayer approval.
Investment tax credits. While the temporary nature of an income tax cut would no doubt undermine its efficacy as fiscal stimulus, a fixed expiration date for investment incentives would have the opposite effect.
Uncle Sam might, for example, offer a fat tax credit -- say 20 cents off next year's tax bill for every dollar invested in machinery. This would be equivalent to a 20 percent-off sale on new capital equipment, good only during the recession. And while most companies would have trouble planning and building new capacity on such short notice, many would happily accelerate plans already on the drawing board.
This is trickle-down economics -- albeit trickle-down at its best. And while the investment tax credit has loyal fans in both the Clinton and Bush camps, a tax break for which the immediate beneficiaries would be corporations would probably be resisted by some Congressional Democrats. Francis Bator, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, has a very different qualm. He believes tax subsidies that enhanced productivity are such a good idea for the slow-growth American economy that he is reluctant to offer them merely as a temporary antidote for recession.
Employment subsidies. If the main purpose of temporary tax breaks and increased spending in a recession is to create jobs, why not skip the middleman? Daniel Hamermesh, an economist at Michigan State University, wants to give tax credits to employers who hire additional workers -- say $2,000 for the first year. And the idea is reportedly receiving a good reception in Little Rock.
So modest a wage subsidy would really only make a difference for employers thinking about hiring low-wage workers. But that does not bother Mr. Hamermesh. Workers at the bottom, after all, have suffered the most during the recession.
Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings Institution, does not quarrel with this logic. But he is not convinced that the tax break would make much difference. In America's one brief experiment with temporary employment subsidies during the Carter Administration, he notes that roughly half the eligible employers did not even bother to claim the credit.
First-time home buyer's credit. Few economists get excited about this one, in part because plunging mortgage rates have already made houses more affordable, in part because they think there are higher-priority uses for deficit-busting tax benefits. But the idea of creating jobs for home builders by giving first-time buyers a leg up on the down payment is already part of the Bush Administration's recovery plan.
And with more than a little help from the housing lobby it could end up as part of the stimulus package next January, no matter who gains the lease on the White House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; INVESTMENT TAX CREDIT; LABOR; HOUSING; FEDERAL REVENUE SHARING; FEDERAL AID (US) TAXES & TAXATION (92%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); RECESSION (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TAX LAW (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER JAMES R TOBIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



497 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Japan Eases 57 Varieties Marketing

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Suntory Ltd., one of Japan's beverage giants, wants no thirst unquenched. It sells about 100 soft drinks, including a combination of celery and orange juice, another of the Caribbean acerola berry and lemon, a plum drink, a yogurt-flavored soda and a yogurt-flavored water, 11 types of canned tea including peach, and 10 different blends of canned coffee.
But that style of doing business is changing. Hurt by stagnant sales and the rising costs of capital, some Japanese companies are giving second thoughts to the longstanding notion that market share gains are the key to business success, and that product variations and rapid-fire product introductions are the best ways to get them. Variety has been a key competitive strategy for Japanese industries ranging from food products to electronics and automobiles. 
 But in an effort to cut development costs, some companies are starting to trim the variations in their product lines and slow the rate of product introductions. Some executives here say the change is part of a broader strategic shift that emphasizes profits rather than market share.
With the economy in the doldrums, consumers also seem less enamored of new products. "Consumers are focusing more on the genuine quality of the products," said Jiro Aoki, general manager of the domestic sales planning office of the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company.
If the trend gathers steam, it could make it easier for American companies to compete with the Japanese in industries like automobiles and electronics. In autos, for example, Japanese companies have traditionally introduced new models after four years, compared with five to ten years for American and European car makers. But now, Nissan and some smaller Japanese auto makers are beginning to lengthen the model cycle to five years or longer. Mazda is offering only one type of engine in its new RX-7 sports car instead of two and one type of wheel instead of six. For its new 929 luxury sedan, Mazda is offering 23 variations instead of the previous 96.
In electronics, Matsushita, known for its Panasonic brand, is reducing the number of models of television sets it offers by 30 to 40 percent and the variations among cooking appliances by 30 percent.
Sony, which offered televisions in 12 different sizes, has dropped its 27- and 31-inch offerings and might drop some smaller sizes as well. Mitsubishi Electric is shrinking its facsimile machine product line, which has included more than 20 models.
American companies, of course, also offer varieties of products. In personal computers, where technology is changing rapidly, American companies have generally been faster than the Japanese in introducing new models.
But in products in which technology is not changing as rapidly or at all, the Japanese seem to have elevated product proliferation to a fine art.
Take the humble pen and pencil, for instance. "We've got mechanical pencils that are so similar, I can't tell the difference, and yet it's a different name and different price point," said Ronald G. Shaw, a director of the Pilot Corporation of Japan and president of its American subsidiary.
Mr. Shaw said the Pilot Corporation of America chose to market a small subset of the pens and pencils sold by the parent company. "Our product catalogue in America has 10 to 12 pages," he said. "Theirs is a couple hundred pages. It's thick. It's a book."
Why so many products? "They claim the competition is doing it so therefore they have to do it," Mr. Shaw said.
Japanese executives say Japanese consumers love the latest products, a trait that manifested itself in the speed at which Japan modernized after being exposed to Western culture in the 1850's. In addition, they say, Japanese consumers pay attention to details in a way that Americans don't.
Japanese companies have evolved a system of competing by trying to cover every possible market niche to attain maximum market share. "The attitude of manufacturers, retailers and distributors has been to respond to all kinds of needs and requests from consumers," Mr. Aoki said.
In some cases, product introductions seem to serve as a substitute for pre-market testing. Suntory introduces 15 to 20 soft drinks a year, some completely new, some variations of existing products. About 90 percent fail and are withdrawn from the market in about a year, said Akihisa Hirabayashi, general manager of the planning department of Suntory's food and beverage division.
The economic boom in the late 1980's encouraged this trend as consumers, with money to spare, seemed easy to entice. "During the bubble era, anything new could attract consumers," Mr. Hirabayashi said.
To cope better with such demands, Japanese companies invested heavily in so-called flexible manufacturing systems, which allow more than one type of product to be manufactured on the same assembly line.
But even with these systems, the numerous product variations and rapid product introductions have put a strain on engineers and product designers and raised costs. Each different type of engine or seat in a car, for instance, requires a whole different set of crash tests for safety.
"We feel that we might have gone a little bit too far in making these varieties," said Teisuke Horio, general manager of the vehicle development management service center at Nissan, Japan's No. 2 auto maker. "Generally speaking, if you have more than 30 varieties, then 10 types cover 80 percent of the orders."
Mr. Horio is heading an effort to streamline the product line and to use more common parts in Nissan cars. Nissan has 22 car models, but 1,096 variations when the options in body type, transmission, engines and other factors are included. Some sell in very small amounts, but the company must still go through the expense of designing separate parts for them and stockpiling these parts for repairs later.
Nissan has two main categories of its Bluebird car in Japan that have almost no parts in common except the tires. In its entire product line, there are 500 different sizes, shapes, colors and textures of steering wheel, including 65 offered for just the Nissan Sunny alone.
Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry has also been encouraging the slowdown in product introductions and varieties, in part to help reduce working hours to bring Japan more in line with other advanced nations. In addition, the tendency of consumers to buy new electric appliances every few years and throw out the old ones is contributing to a tremendous garbage disposal problem in this crowded country.
 
Government Makes Survey
 How far the cutting will go is hard to quantify. In a survey of the product lines of 10 electronics companies in March, the trade ministry found that 211 models of televisions were being offered and that they remained on the market an average of 12 to 13 months. A new ministry survey projects those models will number only 192 by next March, when the model cycle will have lengthened to 14 months.
But the trimming of variation and slowdown in new model introduction is selective. Sony, for instance, still updates its 29- and 34-inch television models every year because these televisions are considered the main ones in the home and Sony wants to have as competitive a product as possible, said Tadao Kubodera, general manager of the TV group's Japan business division.
Not everyone is persuaded that cutbacks in variety are the way to go. Some auto dealers are calling on car makers to introduce some hot models to perk up the market. Indeed, with companies no longer able to rely on overall market growth, they must steal market share from others to grow. That could set off the product race all over again.

GRAPHIC: Photo/Chart: "Fewer Choices Cut Development Costs" -- Options offered in the 1992 Mazda RX-7 compared with those offered in models from 1985 to 1991.
 
ENGINE
 New: Turbocharged rotary engine.
 Old: Turbocharged or standard.
 
HOOD
 New: Aluminum with air scoop only.
 Old: 4 options.
 
STEERING WHEELS
 New: With or without airbag, both 3-spoke leather wrapped.
 Old: 9 options.
 
WHEELS
 New: 16-inch aluminum only.
 Old: 6 options.
 
TOTAL VARIATIONS
 Number of possible combinations of features.
 New: 19 variations.
 Old: 67 variations.
 
BODY COLOR
 New: 5 options.
 Old: 7 options.
 
SEATS
 Including different shapes, fabrics and colors.
 New: 15 options.
 Old: 79 options.
 
BODY TYPE
 New: Coupe only.
 Old: Coupe or convertible.
 
Photo of Mazda RX-7. (Source: Mazda)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (93%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: SUNTORY HOLDINGS LTD (93%); PANASONIC CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (90%); BEVERAGE MFG (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); SALES PLAN (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); SEDANS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); TRENDS (76%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (65%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (61%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW RONALD G SHAW (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



498 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Oil Production Down 5% in September

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Domestic oil production was 5 percent lower in September than in the corresponding month a year earlier, at just under seven million barrels a day, the American Petroleum Institute said yesterday. This continued a string of reports that show increasing United States reliance on oil produced overseas.
The petroleum institute, the industry's main trade association, attributed part of the drop to Hurricane Andrew, which disrupted operations in the Gulf of Mexico and Louisiana, but noted that production for the first nine months was down 3.6 percent from the previous year. 
 Imports made up the difference, rising 7 percent, to 8.378 million barrels a day for the month. For the first three quarters of the year, imports were up 7.765 million barrels a day, up 1.1 percent over the period a year earlier, according to the Institute's monthly report. Taking account of inventory changes, imports are now supplying 45 to 46 percent of domestic demand, the institute said, or 7.7 million to 7.8 million barrels a day. The number of barrels imported is rising by about 6 percent annually.
Consistent with the recession, oil demand has been spotty, falling nine-tenth of 1 percent in September but rising 1.1 percent in the first three quarters of the year. The institute noted that deliveries had been increasing in recent quarters despite the recession, but for the third quarter had dropped seven-tenths of a percent, which the institute called disappointing. It said oil product deliveries for the third quarter had been under 16.9 million barrels a day.
Gasoline consumption may have been lower this summer because of the recession, the institute said, with vacations and recreational activities "curbed more than other types of travel by the sluggish economy."
Air travel boomed in the summer, but jet fuel deliveries were no higher than those of the previous year, because airlines filled seats that would otherwise have been empty rather than add flights, the report said.
Heavy fuel oil, used in electric generation, was down 21.4 percent in the third quarter, the report said, a sign of sluggish demand for electricity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GASOLINE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); CONSUMPTION (73%); ENERGY DEMAND (72%); HURRICANES (71%); JET FUEL (69%); AIRLINES (62%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



499 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Ames Sues Its Advisers on Zayre Bid

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Ames Department Stores Inc., which filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code in April 1990, said yesterday that it had sued its investment bankers for breach of fiduciary duty and professional malpractice in connection with the retailer's 1988 purchase of the Zayre Corporation.
Ames's acquisition of Zayre, a rival discount chain, for a total of $1.3 billion in cash and various forms of debt, is widely seen as the principal cause of its descent into bankruptcy. 
 The suit filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York named Wertheim Schroder & Company and its chairman, James A. Harmon. At the time of the Zayre transaction, Mr. Harmon also served as chairman of the Ames board.
 
Advice to Zayre at Issue
 In addition, Wertheim had been acting as an adviser to Zayre. The suit contends that early in 1988 Wertheim advised Zayre that the value of its discount store division was "hundreds of millions of dollars" less than the price the firm subsequently recommended that Ames's board pay.
The suit seeks to recover damages of around $400 million, including more than $20 million in investment banking fees.
Mr. Harmon resigned his membership on the Ames board of directors yesterday. Wertheim said it would vigorously contest the lawsuit.
Ames, which filed a reorganization plan in January and an amended plan on Sept. 3 to settle a total of $1.6 billion of estimated claims against the company, is still suffering as a result of the recession in the Northeast, where most of its remaining 369 discount department stores are situated. After it acquired Zayre's stores, Ames had more than 700 stores.
Ames reported a net loss in its second quarter ended July 25 of $36.2 million on revenues of $586.5 million.
 
Suit Called 'Groundless'
 In a statement, Wertheim said that Ames's latest proposed bankruptcy plan "relies in part on the unsubstantiated hope of proceeds from this groundless suit."
Whether or not Ames ultimately wins its case, the fact that Mr. Harmon was actively involved in the Zayre acquisition raised eyebrows at the time. The 57-year-old executive first took a seat on the Ames board in 1967, served as chairman from January 1988 until June 1990, and maintained a board seat until yesterday.
According to the lawsuit, Mr. Harmon and Peter Hollis, a former Zayre executive who in 1988 was Ames's chief executive, were proponents of the merger. Worried about Zayre's financial health as well as the apparent conflict of interest inherent in Mr. Harmon's involvement, Ames's co-founder, Herbert Gilman, and John Geisse, another board member, opposed the acquisition.
Mr. Gilman and Mr. Geisse have since died. Other board members did not return phone calls yesterday seeking comment.
John C. Coffee, Adolf Berle Professor of Law at Columbia Law School, said it was not a conflict for an investment banker to recommend a merger between two clients. But he said that Ames's charge that Wertheim withheld information about Zayre could be more serious. "As a director, disclosure of any material kind of information is required," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TJX (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ZAYRE CORP; AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC; WERTHEIM SCHRODER & CO AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC (93%); TJX COS INC (92%); SCHRODER & CO INC (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZAYRE CORP; AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC; WERTHEIM SCHRODER & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); RETAILERS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); DAMAGES (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); MERGERS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: HARMON, JAMES A JAMES A HARMON (92%); JOHN GEISSE (55%); HERBERT GILMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



500 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Digital, Scrambling Hard, Posts Loss of $260 Million

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
The Digital Equipment Corporation said today that it had lost $260.5 million in its most recent quarter, showing the strains that the computer company is experiencing as it tries to change directions drastically in a sluggish economy.
The loss was bigger than what some analysts had expected for the nation's second-largest computer maker. Sales for the three-month period that ended on Sept. 26 totaled $3.3 billion, up slightly from $3.29 billion in the corresponding period last year. The period is Digital's first fiscal quarter. 
 John F. Smith, a Digital senior vice president, said that he did not expect revenue to increase significantly this fiscal year.
In the fiscal year that ended in June, Digital lost nearly $2.8 billion. That included a one-time charge to pay for thousands of job cuts.
Digital, based in Maynard, Mass., disclosed yesterday that it had cut 5,300 jobs in the first quarter, reducing the payroll to 108,500. Mr. Smith said he expected the company to slash even more jobs in the current quarter. The company eventually expects to shrink its payroll to fewer than 90,000 employees, according to plans confirmed by Digital's new president, Robert B. Palmer.
Digital's stock rose $1.375 a share today, to $37.125, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Palmer, who replaced the company's co-founder, Kenneth Olsen, this month, has also pledged to scale back Digital's computer offerings.
In its first quarter last year, Digital earned $11.6 million, or 9 cents a share, on its operations. But Digital reduced its earnings by $485 million to cover accounting changes for retirement benefits. That left a net loss for the quarter of $473.8 million.
Mr. Smith declined to predict when Digital would post profits again.
Digital also said that it had borrowed $250 million last week through debt securities. Company officials said that this would give Digital more financial flexibility. Digital, which traditionally shied away from debt, said in August that it would be willing to borrow up to $1 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS LAYOFFS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ACCOUNTING (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



501 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Join Retail Sales in 0.3% Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
In continued evidence of meager economic growth, retail sales edged three-tenths of 1 percent higher in September amid subdued inflation, the Government said today.
Still, the rise in sales in September, aided to some extent by rebuilding in Florida and Louisiana after Hurricane Andrew, combined with an upward revision in the August sales figure to dampen hopes of an imminent cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve. 
 "The economy is still moving ahead, though very slowly," commented Edward Guay, a senior economist for the Cigna Corporation, the Connecticut-based insurer.
The Producer Price Index for finished goods climbed three-tenths of 1 percent, keeping the inflation gauge for the latest 12 months at the same 1.6 percent pace it averaged in July and August. Excluding the volatile food and energy components, the index rose two-tenths of 1 percent last month, the Labor Department calculated.
Gains in retail sales, which account for one-third of economic activity, were concentrated last month in durable goods, which climbed to $58.74 billion from $58.27 billion, the Commerce Department reported. This was a gain of eight-tenths of 1 percent. Sales of nondurables inched down one-tenth of 1 percent, to $102.39 billion.
But while the aftermath of the hurricane undoubtedly pushed sales totals higher, the department could not quantify the impact.
Not only were many forces, including some negatives, at work, but today's so-called advance report was also based on a relatively small sample of 3,000 retailers. Next month's "preliminary" estimate of September sales will cover 12,000 outlets, while the final tally will cover 22,000.
This also helps explain the frequent, substantial revisions of the figures, which now show August retail sales unchanged instead of down five-tenths of 1 percent.
The biggest hurricane effect was seen in a 2.6 percent sales jump reported by merchants in building materials, hardware, garden supplies and mobile homes. This followed a 1.5 percent decline in August, a result largely unaffected by the hurricane since it occurred one week before the end of the month.
Sales of furniture, home furnishings and equipment climbed 1.9 percent in September, and there appeared to be at least minor hurricane-related sales gains in the four-tenths of 1 percent increase for automotive dealers.
Ronald Piencykoski, a Commerce Department specialist, pointed, for example, to people leasing recreational vehicles as substitutes for lost homes.
On the other hand, sales of some nondurables, including food and clothing, appeared to have been cut by the storm, partly reflecting the appearance of soup kitchens and donated items.
Sales declined 1.5 percent at the nation's food stores last month while sales at restaurants and bars eased two-tenths of 1 percent. There was no change at drug and proprietary stores, but solid gains were recorded by department and other general-merchandise stores, which enjoyed a five-tenths of 1 percent increase, and by gasoline service stations and apparel and accessory stores, both up 1.9 percent.
 
Caution on Storm
 Mr. Piencykoski cautioned against overestimating the effects of the hurricane, noting that Dade County, Fla., the area hardest hit, accounts for only seven-tenths of 1 percent of national sales.
Last month's retail spending was 4.4 percent higher than that of September 1991, but this does not make allowance for price changes. Consumer inflation has run at a 3.1 percent pace over the 12 months through August. The Consumer Price Index for September is to be published Thursday.
Though the consensus among private economists was that the economy was showing little improvement, the Bush Administration welcomed today's report. In a statement, Commerce Secretary Barbara Hackman Franklin said sales for the third quarter, which rose at an annual rate of 5.3 percent, represented a "solid increase" from the second-quarter annual pace of nine-tenths of 1 percent and was "evidence of an ongoing recovery" in the economy at large.
Today's inflation report covering prices received by producers was marked by an eight-tenths of 1 percent surge in the price of energy, mainly gasoline, and a 4.3 percent jump in the price of tobacco prices. Food rose four-tenths of 1 percent, but there were sizable declines for passenger cars, prescription drugs, periodicals and soaps and detergents.
Prices at the intermediate stage of production edged up two-tenths of 1 percent after two months of no change. Energy and feeds gained in price while construction materials rose slightly more than in August. Prices declined for both durable and nondurable materials used in manufacturing.
Goods at the crude level rose 1.6 percent following two months of negligible or no change, the report said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Retail Sales" shows total retail sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, April 1991-September 1992. (Source: Commerce Department)
 
"Producer Prices" shows index of finished goods prices, seasonally adjusted, April 1991-September 1992. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (83%); NXT (LSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (83%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (83%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (66%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (83%); NEXT PLC (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX RETAIL SALES (94%); PRODUCER PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); MOBILE HOMES (61%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR RONALD PIENCYKOSKI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



502 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Gun Control Is Crucial Issue In Challenge to Congressman

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAMMONTON, N.J., Oct. 13

 BODY:
Two years ago, the political hold that William J. Hughes exercised in the Second Congressional District in South Jersey was so formidable that the Republicans did not even bother to field a candidate against him.
This year, things are different. Buoyed by anti-incumbent feeling across the nation and opposition to Gov. Jim Florio that swept Republicans into control of both houses of the Legislature last year for the first time in two decades, Assemblyman Frank LoBiondo is mounting an aggressive and energetic campaign that has Mr. Hughes in his toughest fight in years. 
 It also has had its nasty elements, with fliers circulating in the sprawling, semirural hunting area that picture a saluting Adolf Hitler above the words: "Everyone in favor of gun control raise your right hand. Dump Bill Hughes."
Mr. LoBiondo has vigorously denied any connection with the fliers, whose origin remains a mystery, and has publicly denounced them.
 
Heads Panel on Crime
 Still the candidates' positions have kept the issue very much alive. Mr. Hughes, a Democrat now in his ninth term, is chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, which has produced a series of gun-control measures.
Mr. LoBiondo was the primary sponsor of a bill to repeal the tough ban on the sale and possession of military-style semiautomatic firearms that was approved by the Legislature in 1990. Governor Florio vetoed the measure earlier this year and the Legislature has not yet tried to override the veto.
Voters in the Second District are no strangers to battles over gun issues.
Members of the National Rifle Association and its New Jersey affiliate, the Coalition of New Jersey Sports, were instrumental in causing the defeat and ultimate retirement from the Legislature of Assemblyman Edward H. Salmon in a bid for the State Senate in 1990. They also made a strong but unsuccessful attempt to help defeat State Senator William L. Gormley in the primary last year.
The Congressional race has escalated the battle. The National Rifle Association, in a mailing to its South Jersey members in May, urged them to "register and vote for Frank LoBiondo to win on June 2 in the primary and in November."
The letter urged members to "send a signal from New Jersey to the rest of the nation that 18 years of Bill Hughes is too much."
 
'A Disgrace'
 Mr. LoBiondo has refused to accept contributions from the National Rifle Association, lest he be accused of playing up to the association, and has termed the issuing of the Hitler flier, the origin of which remains a mystery, "a disgrace."
"I did not know about it until The Atlantic City Press called me about it," he said. "I decried it, I condemned it. It has no place in our campaign or anybody else's."
He accused Mr. Hughes of trying to divert the campaign from vital issues.
"I wanted a discussion of the economy, jobs, health care, the deficit, a balanced budget, Congressional reform," he said.
Mr. LoBiondo, 46 years old, of Vineland, operates the family trucking business in Deerfield and represents an Assembly district that includes Cape May County and parts of Atlantic and Cumberland Counties. He has focused his campaign on "the need to change the way Congress does business," assailing the incumbent for his votes against the balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution and in favor of the Congressional pay raise.
The 59-year-old Mr. Hughes said he opposed a constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget because it would allow "an unelected judiciary to set national priorities." Instead, he has proposed legislation that would require the President to submit a balanced budget and forbid Congress to consider any budget in which spending exceeded revenues, except in times of declared war or national emergency.
He said he voted for the pay raise because the legislation also called for elimination of honorariums and other outside income.
Mr. Hughes, who retained all of his old district with some new areas added by redistricting, returns there every weekend, even when the House is in session. He is running largely on his record in Congress, including his role in drafting major crime measures in 1984 and 1986 and anti-drug legislation in 1986 and 1988.
He is the author of legislation banning "cop killer" ammunition that can pass through police body armor, and of a ban on the manufacturing of machine guns for private use and of plastic firearms that can pass through metal detectors.
Despite these actions, he said in an interview on Monday that he was not an anti-gun candidate. "I am a hunter myself, and I own guns myself," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map of Hammonton, N.J. showing location of 2d Congressional District.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; GUN CONTROL; FIREARMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; ELECTIONS GUN CONTROL (93%); FIREARMS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: KING, WAYNE; HUGHES, WILLIAM J (REPR); LOBIONDO, FRANK (ASSEMBLYMAN) FRANK A LOBIONDO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



503 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
Beer Companies Shift Their Focus to, of All Things, Taste

BYLINE: By Adam Bryant

 BODY:
"BEER Is Back" proclaims the Coors advertising campaign for its Extra Gold.
That may be overstating things a bit, in light of the fact that beer has been with us since medieval times. But the sentiment points up a noteworthy shift among the leading brewers to focus increasingly on their products' taste, rather than on less tangible imagery. 
 Besides the Coors Extra Gold campaign, Anheuser-Busch has woven a new theme into its "Why Ask Why?" campaign for Bud Dry: "Easy like a light, and has real draft taste." For its core Budweiser brand, the brewer has developed its "Beer Talk" campaign, in which elder loyal Budweiser drinkers educate two young beer drinkers on why Budweiser is the best-tasting beer.
And the Miller Brewing Company touts its barley beer, Miller Reserve, with commercials that urge drinkers, "Taste what barley does for a beer."
To help point up the bolder taste of their beers, both Coors and Miller have brewed a darker beer. Miller Reserve is darker because barley is the only grain used, and Coors achieves this effect by roasting barley longer than usual for its Extra Gold. In the Coors "Beer Is Back" campaign, the difference in color is highlighted with frequent shots of clear mugs of Budweiser and Extra Gold side-by-side on beer trays.
Selling a beer's taste is by no means new. The major breweries' advertising has long included tales of the hallowed processes used to brew their beers. But these have been relatively minor notes sounded in the commercials favored in the last couple of decades. In the 1970's and early 1980's, campaigns for core brands like Budweiser and Miller focused most intensely on telling drinkers that their brands were the perfect reward for a hard day's work, with congratulatory taglines of "This Bud's for You" and "It's Miller Time." As light beers grew, many brewers started suggesting that their beers were key ingredients to successful parties for thin and muscled twentysomethings.
None of these themes are going away, but brewers are embracing taste for a couple of reasons. First, sales of domestic premium beers are flagging -- Budweiser declined 5.8 percent in 1991 -- as their many older drinkers quaff less and younger drinkers choose other brands. And their choices are helping fuel swift, although still minuscule, sales of heartier microbrewery beers, like the Boston Beer Company's Samuel Adams brand, and of imported beers.
The straits for the big domestic brewers were made plain in late summer by a regional advertising campaign by Anheuser-Busch's Natural Light brand that called into question the integrity of the Coors Rocky Mountain heritage. Its commercials said that Coors shipped dense beer from its Colorado brewery by tanker car to a plant in Elkton, Va., where local water was added. Now Anheuser-Busch has extended that attack by running similar spots for its Michelob Light brand that challenge Coors.
Why are beer drinkers gravitating to products with a little more heft?
Industry executives and analysts suggest that this trend is in keeping with these half-empty economic times. Simply put, consumers seem to want a basic, tangible reason for buying one product over another. "We want to get back to more rational points of difference," said August Busch 4th, Anheuser-Busch's vice president of Budweiser brands.
Tom Pirko, president of Bevmark Inc., a consulting firm, added that consumers were favoring tastier beers for the same kinds of reasons that Ross Perot gained many followers last spring. "Consumers are more pragmatic," he said. "They want products that really deliver, and they're not buying open and empty images."
Mr. Pirko said this trend was also reflected in the beverage industry over all, where fledgling brands with a bold taste, like Clearly Canadian fruit-flavored soda, are selling well. Industry executives said that in light of the collective mood of Americans, taste -- as opposed to life-style images -- would probably be an important selling point for some time to come. "People want to just enjoy beer for the pleasure of drinking beer," said Gary Skovsted, the Coors brand director for Extra Gold.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For its core Budweiser brand, Anheuser-Busch has developed its "Beer Talk" campaign, in which elder loyal Budweiser drinkers educate young beer drinkers on why they think Budweiser is the best-tasting beer. (Anheuser-Busch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: TAP (NYSE) (92%); SAM (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (93%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (93%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (92%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (93%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (92%); MILLER BREWING CO (83%); BOSTON BEER CO INC (80%); EXTRA GOLD (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXTRA GOLD (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); COLORADO, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BEER; ADVERTISING BREWERIES (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (89%); BRANDING (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); BULK SHIPPING (71%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM AUGUST BUSCH (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



504 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Yields Are Down on Money Market Funds

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields offered by tax-exempt and taxable money market funds fell in the latest weekly survey of 862 funds by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report.
The decline was more apparent in tax-exempt funds, where yields had recently reached levels that made them competitive with taxable funds and had prompted cash inflows into the tax-exempt funds over the last few weeks. 
 Assets of tax-exempt money funds rose by $1.3 billion for the week, to a total of $96.8 billion, with the average number of days left to maturity of securities held in fund portfolios unchanged at 67, IBC/Donoghue's analysts said.
 
Tax-Exempt Yield: 2.53%
 The seven-day average compounded yield for the tax-exempts dropped 14 basis points, to 2.53 percent, with the simple yield down 33 basis points, to 2.31 percent. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point. Over a 30-day period the average compounded and simple yields were both down 22 basis points, to 2.36 percent and 2.33 percent, respectively.
Not factoring in state taxes, the figures mean that the taxable equivalent of the seven-day compounded yield is 3.51 percent for investors in the 28 percent tax bracket and 3.66 percent for investors in the 31 percent tax bracket.
In the weekly survey of tax-exempt funds with assets greater than $100 million, IBC/Donoghue's said Strong Municipal Money Market Fund, distributed by Strong/Corneliuson Capital Management Inc. of Milwaukee, was the best-performing fund with a yield of 3.05 percent.
 
Taxable Yield: 2.81%
 For taxable money market funds, the yield decline was much softer, as total assets rose by $850 million, to $487.3 billion. Analysts said the tapering off of the cash inflow was a signal that the drop in yields was ending for this round at least. But they still expect one more decline in the Federal funds rate and, as a result, another drop in money fund yields.
The total cash inflow into the taxable funds was pulled down by a $350 million outflow of cash from institutional assets, to a total $169.4 billion, while retail assets grew by $1.2 billion, to $317.9 billion.
The average seven-day compounded yield for taxable money market funds was down 6 basis points, to 2.81 percent, and the simple yield was off a similar amount, to 2.77 percent. Over a 30-day period the average compounded yield fell 4 basis points, to 2.88 percent, with the simple yield off 3 basis points, to 2.4 percent.
Analysts said the average days left to maturity of securities in portfolios remained at 65.
The Standby Reserve Fund, distributed by Cowen & Company in New York, was the top returner among general-purpose funds, with a yield of 3.85 percent -- the same yield offered by United Services Government Securities Savings fund, distributed by United Services in San Antonio in the usually higher government-only funds with assets under $100 million.
For comparative purposes, the average bank money market account this week yielded 2.81 percent, according to The Bank Rate Monitor.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Maturities" shows average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios. Oct. 1991-Oct. 1992. (Source: IBC/Donoghue's)
 
"Consumer Money Rates" shows Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts. Average yield in percent, July 1992-Oct. 1992.
 
Table: "Regional Bank Rates"
Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on Oct. 14, 1992 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

 	 	 	New York	2.79	2.87	Los Angeles	2.88	3.05	Chicago	2.81	3.01	San Francisco	2.80	2.96	Philadelphia	3.01	2.96	Detroit	2.90	3.02	Boston	2.82	3.02	Houston	2.69	3.00	Dallas	2.65	2.96	Washington	2.89	3.14	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	2.82	3.00	
 
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (79%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



505 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
3 Big Banks Post Sharp Income Gain

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Large banking companies are reporting sharp increases in earnings, their problems with delinquent loans having abated at the same time that low interest rates have padded their profit margins.
Three of the nation's 25 largest banking companies reported sharp third-quarter gains yesterday -- the Bank of New York Company, up 66.1 percent; the Wachovia Corporation, up 21.3 percent, and the First Fidelity Bankcorporation, up 48.8 percent -- indicating that 1992 will be a record year. These companies were not among the hardest hit by loan defaults the last few years, but like the rest of the industry, they are recovering from a sharp increase in bad loans that they suffered in 1990. 
 "The industry trend is essentially the same as for the past several quarters -- lending margins are wide, loan demand is weak and loan losses are tapering off," said Judah Kraushaar, a banking analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company. He noted, however, that commercial real estate loans were still a problem for many banks, particilarly in California, where large banks have not yet reported third-quarter profits.
While the level of badly delinquent loans remains unusually high at most banks, those problems have been made easier to bear by declining interest rates. By reducing the interest rates they pay on deposits more quickly than the rates charged on loans, banks have earned the profits they needed to cover losses on bad loans made in the 1980's, and accumulate more capital so that they are in a stronger position to absorb unexpected losses in the future.
Following are the details of the banks' results:
 
Bank of New York
 At the Bank of New York, third-quarter profits of $98 million, or $1.12 a share, were up from $59 million, or 72 cents a share, a year earlier. Non-performing assets, consisting of badly delinquent loans and others that are not expected to be repaid in full, plus real estate acquired through foreclosure, fell $75 million, to $1.027 billion at midyear, and are well below the $1.57 billion total a year ago. At the same time the Bank of New York has increased its reserves to 125 percent of its most troubled loans, from about 89 pecent a year ago.
The company added that its profits were helped by good growth in its back-office processing for securities and mutual funds where revenues of $115 million in the third quarter were 15 pecent greater than a year ago. Service charges and other fees levied on depositors and other customers grew 20 percent in the last year to $110 million in the third quarter.
 
Wachovia
 The Wachovia Corporation, Winston-Salem, N.C., earned $108.8 million, or $1.26 a share, up from $89.7 million, or $1.04 a share, a year earlier.
"We are seeing some pockets of loan growth, mainly in the consumer area," said Robert S. McCoy, chief financial officer at Wachovia. He said growth had been "excellent" in the credit card business, where it has been offering cards with an 8.9 pecent rate to customers with a good credit rating. But business borrowers remain scarce, Mr. McCoy said, as some companies are paying off their loans as fast as others are borrowing.
Wachovia has one of the banking industry's best records for avoiding bad loans, but was still hit with an increase in problems in 1990. In the third quarter, nonperforming assets totaled $280.4 million, down $9.3 million from midyear and $40.9 million from a year ago.
 
First Fidelity
 First Fidelity Bancorporation, Newark, earned $82.3 million, or $1.01 a share, up about from $55.3 million, or 81 cents a share, a year ago. Non-performing loans and foreclosed real estate fell to $751.2 million, down $58.52 million from midyear and $220.7 million from a year ago. While loans declined to $16.67 billion from $17.21 billion at midyear, First Fidelity was able to increase earnings because of a wider interest margin. The difference between rates paid on deposits and rates earned on loans and investments grew to 4.73 percent in the latest quarter from 4.59 percent in the second quarter of this year. The company, which has been an active buyer of deposits from failed savings and loans and banks, now has consumer deposits totaling $23.2 billion, or about $6.5 billion more than it has in loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (94%); WFC (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK CORP; WACHOVIA CORP; FIRST FIDELITY BANCORP BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (94%); WELLS FARGO & CO (86%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW YORK CORP; WACHOVIA CORP; FIRST FIDELITY BANCORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



506 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Sales of U.S.-Built Vehicles Rise by 6.1%

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Sales of domestically built cars and light trucks rose 6.1 percent in early October, although automotive demand remained weighted down by uncertainty over the economy and the Presidential election.
In results reported today, car sales dropped 5.7 percent, to 151,224, but sales of light trucks, which include mini-vans, sport utility vehicles and pickups, rose 29.7 percent, to 103,271, from a year ago. Over all, vehicle sales totaled 254,495, compared with 239,894 last year. 
 The seasonally adjusted annual rate of car sales for the period Oct. 1-10 was a sluggish 5.8 million, down from 6.8 million in late September but up from the 5.5 million rate of last year in early October.
"It's a microscopic recovery, with all the strength in the light-truck sector," said David Healy, automotive analyst for S. G. Warburg & Company in New York.
The General Motors Corporation posted an 11.4 percent decline in car sales, to 63,723, but a 24.7 percent increase in light trucks, to 39,704. G.M.'s weakness in car sales was pronounced in the Chevrolet, Oldsmobile and Cadillac divisions. Sales of the Chevy Caprice, Olds 98 and Cadillac DeVille cars were off sharply from a year ago.
 
G.M.'s Light-Truck Market
 In the light-truck market, G.M.'s full-size pickup and full-size sport utility vehicle sold strongly.
The Ford Motor Company notched an 8.2 percent increase in car sales, to 51,425, and a 35 percent increase in light-truck sales, to 35,702.
Jerry Roberts, general manager of Morris Ford-Mercury in Burnt Hills, N.Y. cited continued strong sales of the Ford Explorer sport-utility vehicle. "We stocked a lot of inventory, but as I look down the road they're going to be harder and harder to come by for 1993," he said.
Ward's Automotive Reports estimated that car sales for the Chrysler Corporation rose 12.2 percent, to 15,600, in early October; the trade letter estimated that Chrysler's light-truck sales rose 25.3 percent, to 22,300, in the period. Chrysler posts sales only once a month. Chrysler dealers have reported a great deal of interest in the auto maker's new L/H midsize models.
John Johnson, an owner of Chrysler franchises in Kingfisher, Okla., said he had six L/Hs on order, and had received only two so far: "We'll take as many as we can get," he said, acknowledging, however, that "business is pretty slow."
Two large Japanese auto makers, the Honda Motor Company and the Toyota Motor Corporation, reported sharply lower sales, as a result of higher prices and competitive models from the Big Three. Honda's domestic car sales reached 7,906 for the period, down 42 percent. Toyota's domestic car sales dropped 30.1 percent, to 5,782. Toyota's light-truck sales reached 2,138 in late October; last year's domestic light-truck sales, the auto maker's first, were insignificant.
The Nissan Motor Company, which recently introduced its Altima compact sedan, sold 2,940 domestic cars, up 84 percent from last year. But Nissan's domestically built light-truck sales slipped 9.5 percent, to 2,270.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (83%); 7267 (TSE) (83%); TYT (LSE) (82%); TM (NYSE) (82%); 7203 (TSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (83%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (82%); S G WARBURG & CO LTD (69%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (94%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MINIVANS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (79%); PICKUP TRUCKS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



507 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Coca-Cola Earnings Up 18.5% in Quarter

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
The Coca-Cola Company said yesterday that third-quarter profits increased 18.5 percent, despite cold weather that hurt the soft drink industry's sales and weak economies in important markets.
Earnings were $540.6 million, or 41 cents a share, compared with $456.3 million, or 34 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenues climbed 11 percent, to $3.51 billion from $3.17 billion. 
 Roberto C. Goizueta, the chairman and chief executive, said, "All this was accomplished in a quarter in which key markets had unfavorable weather and/or economic conditions." He said the economies of important world markets were either very soft or "in depression."
 
U.S. Volume Up
 In the United States, unit soft drink volume sold to retail and fountain customers grew more than 2 percent, and gallon shipments of concentrates and syrups increased 1 percent in the third quarter. The company said Coca-Cola brands in the United States grew faster than the soft drink industry as a whole in the quarter, resulting in expanded market share.
The earnings were in line with expectations, and Coke's stock climbed 62.5 cents a share, to $38.50, on the New York Stock Exchange.
In the Northeast Europe and Africa group, case sales grew 10 percent, and gallon sales increased 5 percent.
In the European Community, case sales fell 1 percent. Growth of 4 percent in Germany was offset by declines of 13 percent in Britain, reflecting the dismal economy there. Case sales fell 19 percent in France, where volume was affected by a price increase as well as the weak economy. Case sales in Japan were flat.
In the third quarter, unit case volume in Latin America decreased 4 percent. Unit case volume in Argentina and Mexico grew 20 percent and 5 percent, respectively, partly offsetting a 29 percent decrease in Brazil.
At Coca-Cola Foods, which makes Minute Maid orange juice, operating income increased during the third quarter as higher margins offset slightly lower volumes. Volume for all juice and juice-drink products in the third quarter dropped 1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Tracking Coke" shows monthly stock price, 1990-1992 and quarterly net income, 1990-1992. (Source: Datastream; Bloomberg Business News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (97%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%); NORTHERN EUROPE (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (97%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%); NORTHERN EUROPE (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (95%); SOFT DRINKS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); EXECUTIVES (56%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



508 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Dow Drops 5.94 Amid Unease Over I.B.M.

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks fell yesterday, driven down by a late wave of computerized sell programs and weakness in I.B.M. shares, reversing two days of gains.
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 5.94 points to close at 3,195.48. Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered gainers, 885 to 823. Volume was 175.9 million shares, compared with 186.7 million on Tuesday. 
 Richard Meyer of Ladenburg Thalmann said that when I.B.M. "started to become unglued," the rest of the market followed suit.
I.B.M. fell 3/4, to 78. Traders said the slip was apparently fueled by jitters ahead of the company's third-quarter results expected today.
"I think the market got a little ahead of itself," said Robert Walberg, an analyst at MMS International, referring to the two previous days of gains.
 
Downward Trend
 Alfred Goldman, at A. G. Edwards, said: "We worked off the oversold condition, and so it was time to go back to the primary short-term trend, which is down.
"I assume the message of the market is that earnings are going to be disappointing. The market still hasn't finished worrying about a President Clinton, the state of the economy and whether corporate earnings would be good as the market was betting they would be."
Among other issues, United States Surgical roared ahead 8 1/4, to 64 3/4. The company cited positive reactions to its new laparoscopic product and surgical staples at an analysts meeting. Dean Witter repeated a buy recommendation.
Xerox rose 1, to 78 1/8. It agreed to sell its Van Kampen Merritt money management unit for $360 million.
Springs Industries slumped 5 1/8, to 32 7/8, after reporting third-quarter results. Prudential cut estimates on the company.
Coca-Cola rose 5/8, to 38 1/2. Kidder, Peabody raised its rating to hold from sell after the company reported that third-quarter earnings rose 18.5 percent.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 0.07 point, to 409.37. The American Stock Exchange index fell 0.66, to 366.17.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index of all listed common stocks rose 0.08, to 225.39. The Nasdaq index of over-the-counter issues fell 0.22, to 576.22.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); INVESCO INVESTMENT SERVICES INC (53%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TRENDS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); COMMON STOCK (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BONDS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



509 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Depressed by Signs Germany Plans No Rate Cut

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar settled mostly lower yesterday in moderate trading on world currency markets.
Gold prices were mixed overseas but declined in domestic dealings. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $342.80 an ounce, off $1.20. The Republic National Bank said gold fell $1.05 an ounce, to a late price of $342.75. 
 Traders said the dollar was depressed by word that Germany's central bank did not plan a news conference after today's regularly scheduled meeting of its policy-making council. The news dashed hopes of many dealers that the Bundesbank would announce a cut in interest rates after the meeting.
"That really prevented the dollar from going higher," said Ronald Holzer, chief dealer at the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. "Interest-rate differentials have stopped narrowing, and that hurts the dollar."
High interest rates overseas make foreign fixed-income securities more attractive to investors.
 
2 Sluggish Reports
 On the domestic front, the Government released two reports that pointed to a continuing sluggish economy. The Labor Department said wholesale prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent in September, the biggest increase in five months. Separately, the Commerce Department said retail sales rose a modest three-tenths of 1 percent in September.
The data were within market expectations but prevented the dollar from gaining ground nonetheless, Mr. Holzer said.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 121.10 yen, down 0.50 yen from Tuesday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 121.05. In New York the dollar settled at 121.02 yen, down from 121.10 yen on Tuesday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.7085, from $1.7165 late Tuesday. In New York it cost $1.7065 to buy one pound, less expensive than Tuesday's $1.7160.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.4605 German marks, down from 1.4640; 1.3015 Swiss francs, down from 1.3068; 4.9620 French francs, down from 4.9760; 1,290.50 Italian lire, down from 1,297.50, and 1.2480 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2440.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.4625 German marks, down from 1.4690; 1.3035 Swiss francs, down from 1.3120.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (71%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RETAIL SALES (51%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (51%); 

PERSON: RONALD HOLZER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



510 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Steel Mills Hope For Higher Prices

BYLINE: By Jonathan P. Hicks

 BODY:
THE flood of trade litigation undertaken by the nation's largest steelmakers against foreign steel producers is certain to have a profound impact on the American companies, besides keeping their lawyers busy for months. Analysts say the complaints, when resolved, will significantly help steel companies in the United States gain price increases.
In a battery of complaints, the nation's biggest steel companies have charged that foreign companies are selling steel in the United States at unfairly low prices. The Government, analysts contend, is likely to side with the American producers and begin assessing duties on steel brought into the United States from countries that are found to be judged as dumping subsidized steel. 
 "If most of the trade cases proceed, I expect prices to go up by as much as 10 percent," said John Jacobson, president of Jacobson & Associated, a Philadelphia-based steel consulting firm. "The availability of imported products has kept prices below what they would have been otherwise. If you take that away, you're going to see upward movement in prices, and that's the objective of big steel companies.
For American steelmakers, who are selling many products at prices lower than those of two years ago, the prospect of higher steel prices is particularly cheery. Most big steel companies reported huge losses for the first half and are expected to suffer deep deficits for the entire year.
Cold-rolled steel, for example, which is used in everything from automobiles and appliances to construction, sells for about $420 a ton, compared with an average price of $540 three years ago. Structural steel, used widely in high-rise construction and bridges, costs about $180 a ton, half its price two years ago.
Steelmakers are hardly waiting for the impact of the trade litigation to take effect, since decisions on the most significant disputes might not be reached until the spring. Two large companies, USX's steel division and the LTV Corporation, said last week that they would raise prices, beginning next year.
The question is whether the price increases will take hold. Some analysts contend that only with economic improvement will those price increases remain firm. "They do have a chance with this proposed price increase," Mr. Jacobson said. "With the prospect of some economic recovery coupled with the prospect of the impact of the trade cases, they have an opportunity to see price increases."
Even if these price increases hold, there is no shortage of doubters about how long they will benefit the large companies. Many people in the industry contend that the gains by major producers might be short-lived, even if the higher prices cause the level of imported steel to recede. Indeed, there are several repercussions to the trade litigation that could add to the problems of the domestic industry. For one thing, while higher steel prices may lead to profits for the major producers, they are also likely to spur more smaller steel companies, known as mini-mills, to begin making products that compete more directly with big steel companies.
Those products, principally the sheet steel that goes into automobiles and appliances, are now the domain of the large companies, including USX, Bethlehem Steel and LTV. Mini-mill producers typically make steel from scrap and produce lower-quality products with smaller work forces that receive lower wages. But in recent years, Nucor, the largest of the mini-mills, has begun producing small amounts of sheet steel at a new plant.
Mr. Jacobson and other analysts said they expected several mini-mills to move aggressively into the flat-rolled market, which is more lucrative, adding that the prospect of higher prices would probably help them make that decision.
James Todd, chairman of the Birmingham Steel Corporation, a mini-mill steel producer based in Birmingham, Ala., said his company had been considering building mills that would produce sheet steel for automobiles and appliances but added that the prospect of high prices had not necessarily been a factor in the company's analysis.
"We are very much committed to evaluating the flat-rolled market and we will probably conclude that we will want to get into that market," Mr. Todd said. "I fully expect some modest price increase."
There is also the issue of how foreign shipments to the United States will be affected by the pending litigation. Charles A. Bradford, a steel analyst with UBS Securities, said he expected foreign steel producers to intensify their shipments to the United States in anticipation of the Government's imposing penalties at a later time. "The dumping litigation is probably harmful to the industry in the United States," Mr. Bradford said.
"The foreign steel companies expect a negotiated political settlement, like the American Government imposing some sort of quota," he added. "So, for the meantime, they want as high a level of shipments as possible in the United States. For the next few months, there will be more steel coming in than might be the case normally."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LTV (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LTV CORP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET IRON & STEEL MILLS (96%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (90%); LITIGATION (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); STRUCTURAL METAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); LAWYERS (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



511 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
G.M. Chairman To Be Released

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 14

 BODY:
The chairman of the General Motors Corporation, Robert C. Stempel, was expected to be released on Thursday from a Washington hospital after a health problem caused by elevated blood pressure was corrected, the company said today.
G.M. said Mr. Stempel, 59 years old, planned to resume work on Friday. It said doctors at George Washington University Medical Center upgraded his condition to good from serious this afternoon after several tests. 
 Mr. Stempel was admitted after becoming ill on Tuesday while he was in a meeting at the Willard Hotel in Washington.
He took over the top job at G.M. two years ago and is running the world's biggest vehicle maker at a tough time. The weak economy has stifled sales, and competitors, particularly the Japanese, continue to win customers, cutting G.M.'s share of the North American market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (58%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (58%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HEALTH, PERSONAL HEALTH CARE (72%); 

PERSON: STEMPEL, ROBERT C ROBERT C STEMPEL (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



512 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Trade Surplus Hits New High

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 14

 BODY:
After slowly building for nearly two years, Japan's trade surplus with the United States and the rest of the world soared to an all-time high in September, in spite of numerous Japanese Government pledges to take measures to bring its trade into balance.
The surplus is having a particularly pronounced effect now because the Japanese and American economies are both weak, and the Governments are struggling to stimulate growth. The growing surplus is providing a major lift to the Japanese, while proving a drain on the American economy.
 
Worldwide Surplus Up 25 Percent
 Some business leaders and economists said that the prospects of further growth in Japan's surplus was thus setting the stage for more serious clashes between Tokyo and Washington when attention turns from the Presidential election to the nuts and bolts of America's economic problems. 
 Japan's worldwide surplus rose 25 percent in September from a year earlier to a record $12.1 billion, the Finance Ministry reported. The surplus with the United States reached $4.84 billion for the month, and $30.4 billion in the first nine months of this year, also a record.
The figures released today are measured on what is known as a customs-cleared basis. They do not include various expenses, including insurance and freight. If the surplus were measured with all the costs included, called the balance of payments basis, it would be from 20 percent to 30 percent larger. Those figures, the most commonly cited, are not expected for several weeks, but they are also likely to show yawning Japanese surpluses.
What the trade imbalance signifies for Americans is that "we are losing our competitiveness and at a fairly rapid rate, far more than most people believe," said Joseph T. Gorman, chairman of TRW Inc., a major technology company and auto parts manufacturer, and chairman of the U.S.-Japan Business Council.
Mr. Gorman said that he felt his council was making progress in cooperating with Japanese companies to increase their imports of American goods, but that he was frustrated at how little tangible progress was being made even after years of effort.
The problem is underscored by the fact that Japan's surplus is responsible for most of the country's current economic expansion, which nevertheless is meager, while helping keep America's growth at an anemic pace, economists say.
Robert Alan Feldman, economist here for Salomon Brothers Asia, said Japan's trade surplus would provide about 60 percent of the country's expected growth rate of 1.5 percent this year. "Trade almost totally accounts for their growth now," Mr. Feldman said.
In the first half of Japan's fiscal year, which began April 1, Japan's surplus with all regions of the world jumped sharply, a major feat considering that the global economy is in a slowdown. Demand is weak, but the formidable positions that Japanese manufacturers have built in markets around the world are paying off.
Japan's customs-cleared surplus with the United States in that six-month period rose 22 percent, to $21.2 billion. The surplus with Asia hit a high of $20.9 billion, a 26 percent increase from the period a year earlier, while the surplus with the European Community jumped 22 percent, to $16.3 billion, the Finance Ministry reported.
In the first nine months of the year, Japan's customs-cleared exports totaled $248.6 billion, an 11 percent increase from the first nine months of last year. Imports rose 8.4 percent during the same period to $164.8 billion.
That left the overall surplus for the period at $83.8 billion, a big increase from $71.8 billion in the first nine months of 1991.
 
Measures to Cut the Surplus
 Since 1985 Japan has agreed to a number of measures aimed at reducing the surpluses, but they seem to have had a modest impact at best.
In September 1985, James A. Baker 3d, then the Treasury Secretary, engineered a nearly 50 percent reduction in the value of the dollar against the yen, an agreement known as the Plaza Accord. One of the principal results of that was to cause Japanese acquisitions of American companies and real estate, from film studios to a partial interest in Rockefeller Center, to soar because the yen bought so many more dollars.
The two sides entered a long and occasionally bitter series of negotiations to open Japanese markets and encourage Japanese imports. Japanese companies moved billions of dollars worth of production capacity overseas, putting auto plants in Tennessee and electronics factories in Malaysia, for example.
In addition, the Japanese Government agreed to stimulate its economy, an attempt to increase imports and curtail exports by getting the Japanese to consume more at home. The results of all this have not been impressive, as evidenced by this year's rising surpluses.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Land of the Rising Surplus" shows Japan's monthly trade surplus, in billions of dollars, 1990-1992. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (65%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (65%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (65%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (65%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (65%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); STATISTICS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (62%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



513 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Designers Show Off, But Not Too Much

BYLINE: By SUZANNE SLESIN

 BODY:
ONE is a show house on a shoestring; the other is a not-too-showy show house.
As these things go, both seem to be contradictions in terms. 
 At the Royal Oak Showhouse in Manhattan, which opens today, decorators tried to behave themselves and hold on to their checkbooks.
In Roxbury, Conn., the 1992 Litchfield County Designer Showhouse is in a spanking new 10,000-square-foot mansion designed by Rod Thorne and David Cleaves called Raven Cliffs. It's for sale. Even with 30,000 square feet of new sod outside, it is understated for its $3.9 million price tag.
"We insisted on the importance of being sensitive to economic realities," said Chris Casson Madden, one of the organizers of the Royal Oak Showhouse. "We felt it was possible for good design to live within practical budgetary constraints," she added, and smiled just a bit.
David Easton, a decorator known for his luxurious Upper East Side rooms, made a valiant effort to keep it simple and inexpensive. He even went bargain hunting. "David shopped the Lower East Side for the fabrics," said John Christensen, who worked with Mr. Easton on the multipurpose studio apartment that anchors the fifth floor.
"What's $50 a yard net in the D & D Building is $11 a yard downtown," Mr. Christensen added. He also pointed out a screen covered with $3-a-yard fabric and the beige and white striped cotton and linen fabric that was hung from the walls on grommets. "That's about $6 a yard," he said. "Budget is what's it's all about," he continued, especially proud of the floor-to-ceiling Masonite fireplace wall that was painted to look like patinated bronze.
But what about the tony brass lamps that swing out from the mantelpiece? "Not on the budget," Mr. Christensen said with a shrug. "But we just couldn't do without them."
Budgetary concessions took interesting turns. Billy W. Francis used a draped table instead of a pricey antique in the palatial second-floor dining room, and he covered the floor with a raffia-and-cotton rug instead of a fine Oriental. Never mind that the lavish floral centerpiece made up for his frugality.
Mariette Himes Gomez had bedrooms in both houses. Her stately bedroom at Raven Cliffs bordered on the stodgy. In Manhattan she chose overscale accessories and vintage photographs for an elegant and laid-back setup. "White is a color," she decreed in the third-floor room, in which the bed had an Empire double headboard, gilded.
"I'm already turning toward silver instead of gold," Ms. Gomez said. "That's paring down, isn't it?" She added in a whisper, "And if you use big things, you don't have to use so many."
Just try not to covet the lavish bed linens.
Some decorators used wit as one decorating element that's not priced by the yard. Nina Campbell added monkeys to her new fabric and placed animal topiaries atop the paneled bookcases in the baronial library.
Mark Zeff paired paintings of nude men on the walls with prints of antique shoes. "I wanted to fill the space with what I call "eccentric and funny ideas," said the New York designer in the game room he set up on the second-floor landing. "It's almost as if someone would have collected these strange things that don't work together. I just don't know what these things have to do with each other."
Let's just move on to Natasha Bergreen and Liza Spierenburg's cedar closet transformed into a rough-hewn kitchenette on the fifth floor, where a knife and fork are pulled (and pushed) into service as door handles.
Then there's the bar on the third floor that's stocked with mineral water and baby food. "I dedicated it to Murphy Brown," said Brett Nestler, its designer. "She doesn't drink and she's just had a baby, but you know that, of course," she said.
"I call it affordable collecting," said Craig Raywood of his fourth-floor music room where the walls were painted in trompe-l'oeil tortoise shell and ivory. Mr. Raywood advised hanging "a little Beatles thing on the wall instead of a Picasso."
He went further. Under an antique French train luggage rack filled with a medley of musical instruments was an enviable array of musical memorabilia -- photographs and autographs, from Satchmo to Elvis to Callas. "I sing, so this was a natural," Mr. Raywood said.
So was a fantasy realized by the English designer Helen Cooper. "This is my reinterpretation of the folly at Montacute House," she said of the foyer, a sort of baronial hall on a budget. Ms. Cooper has been obsessed with a particular Elizabethan estate for quite some time.
The walls, of her secret-recipe plaster, were painted with red and white lozenges. "Elizabethan colors are meant to last forever," she said.
Earphones, a television, popcorn, an easy chair, a floor of mound moss below and the sky above were the stuff of Paul Bott's fantasy living room on the roof. There was even an outdoor shower. "What more does anyone need?" he asked.
Nothing, absolutely nothing.
But at the Royal Oak Showhouse, virtue was not always rewarded.
Stephen Sills and James Huniford were the bad boys of the house, and proud of it. "We used just fabulous, extravagant things, the best of the best," said Mr. Sills, whose sparsely but elegantly furnished second-floor room was the epitome of current chic -- and the show stopper of the house: a luminous room to rise to the occasion in. And don't forget your attitude.
The elaborate moldings had been camouflaged with flat white paint, the fireplace filled with bizarre stone stars. The furniture had provenance, the more glamorous, the better.
Christian Dior once owned the antique wine-tasting table, and Alberto Giacometti created the cone-shaped ceramic-and-plaster lamp that once hung in Cecil Beaton's bedroom.
The mohair velvet sofa was Mr. Sills's idea, as were the striking overlapping draperies: he took Scalamandre fabric, reversed it and had what he called "a disturbing stripe" removed. "That's for a more subtle color effect," he said.
If anyone doubts that "Connecticut" might be considered a style rather than a place, then they haven't been to Raven Cliffs, in Roxbury, where the views of the fall foliage are worth the price of admission.
From Abbey Darer's totally coordinated yellow-and-blue formal dining room, to Lourdes Catao's living room for a crowd, the soigne dressed-for-breakfast look seems to be flourishing.
There are no groundbreaking decorating tips here, but Raven Cliffs has a few rooms worth walking through. Florence Karasik's idea of putting scatter rugs instead of a runner on the stairs was great, as was Frank Reijnen's serene master bathroom with its glass cylinder shower and softly painted marbleized walls.
Most appealing for its up-to-the-moment restraint was the bedroom by DeBare Saunders and Ronald Mayne, designers based in New York and Watertown, Conn. They performed an agile balancing act between understatement and austerity. That was hardly the case in Ann Fitzpatrick Brown's little boy's room, in which 13 fairy tales were depicted on the walls and and where it looked as if F. A. O. Schwarz's entire Christmas stuffed-animal order had been delivered by mistake.
One felt like making a beeline to hide in Joanna Seitz's his-and-hers closets, transformed into miniature Santa Fe-style studies. "They're spiritual escapes where the owners of the house can go to feel more cozy and private," Ms. Seitz said.
Please, please, can we come, too?
 
Seeing Them For Yourself
 THE Royal Oak Showhouse and Design Workshops, 121 East 73d Street, benefits the Royal Oak Foundation, an American group that supports the work of Britain's National Trust. The house is open daily through Nov. 8. Thursday hours are 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. All other days, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission is $15. A series of seminars, workshops and lectures is also being offered, for a fee, on a wide range of topics. Information from (212) 966-6565.
The Litchfield County Designer Showhouse, at Raven Cliffs in Roxbury, Conn., benefits the Mattatuck Museum in Waterbury, Conn. The house is open daily through Nov. 1, from 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission is $15. Tickets for visitors over 62 years old and those in groups are $12. Information and directions to the house are available from (203) 753-0381.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Royal Oak Showhouse in Manhattan, Craig Raywood adorned the music room with musical memorabilia; In the house's entrance hall, Helen Cooper's walls look Elizabethan. (pg. C1); At the Royal Oak house, Stephen Sills created a lavish living room filled with pedigreed pieces; An eccentric choice of art for the wall of Mark Zeff's game room for Royal Oak; In Connecticut, a stylish bedroom by DeBare Saunders and Ronald Mayne; Sante Fe furnishings were Joanna Seitz's choice for a tiny study closet in Roxbury. (Photographs by Alex McLean for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL OAK SHOWCASE (NYC); DESIGNER SHOWCASE (ROXBURY, CONN)

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL OAK SHOWCASE (NYC); DESIGNER SHOWCASE (ROXBURY, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN; SHOWS (EXHIBITS); FINANCES BUDGETS (89%); FABRICS (87%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); COTTON FABRICS (71%); 

PERSON: SLESIN, SUZANNE CRAIG RAYWOOD (67%); JOHN CHRISTENSEN (64%); HELEN COOPER (60%); MARIETTE HIMES GOMEZ (55%); DAVID EASTON (55%); RAVEN CLIFFS (55%); DAVID CLEAVES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



514 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 2348 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Coup: To Be Both In and Far Out

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
Last night, as limousines circled the neo-Renaissance 1908 Opera House of the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Lafayette Avenue, a first-night audience attended a party celebrating the 10th anniversary of the Next Wave Festival, which has become the most prominent avant-garde showcase in New York City.
The evening was also the 25th anniversary of the stewardship of the academy by its president and executive producer and tireless promoter, Harvey Lichtenstein. Not since Joseph Papp made the New York Shakespeare Festival in his own image has the identity of a performing arts institution been as closely tied to the vision of a single individual. 
 The academy, or BAM, as it is known, is still basking in the attention showered upon Mr. Lichtenstein's fall theatrical coup, the two-week importation from Paris of "Les Atrides," directed by Ariane Mnouchkine. Despite decidedly mixed reviews, the $1 million, four-play cycle of Greek dramas had the cultural elite falling all over themselves in pursuit of tickets.
All of this would seem to stand in sharp contrast to the picture at the academy a year ago, when the sometimes volcanic Mr. Lichtenstein was sounding a cry of alarm for his institution's survival. Faced with severe budget cuts from New York City and New York State -- $1 million of the academy's $13.2 million budget disappeared during a single year -- and with the recession-induced loss of $226,000 in private contributions, Mr. Lichtenstein pared back programming and cut the academy's staff of 120 by 22, moves that he hoped would put the academy on a solid footing.
Was the academy crying wolf? It might seem so, given the speed with which its mood has turned around in a year. But the academy has hardly pulled back completely from the brink. Unmentioned amid the hoopla of the sold-out run of "Les Atrides" was a $220,000 loss. And while advance ticket sales for the Next Wave Festival are significantly higher this year than last, subscriptions have dropped for the Brooklyn Philharmonic, the academy's resident orchestra.
All of this suggests that the academy's future lies in attracting events such as the ones that make up the Next Wave, though the very idea of an institution focused on the avant-garde would seem to be an oxymoron. But the academy has increasingly had to scramble to remain at the cutting edge artistically at a time when the avant-garde is being absorbed into the mainstream and is susceptible to almost instant commercial exploitation. The work of vanguard artists featured at the academy -- Peter Sellars, Peter Brook, Robert Wilson and Pina Bausch, to name a few -- is now embraced by larger establishment audiences.
Mr. Lichtenstein must also deal with the quandary of an institution that often seems to make a bigger splash around the world than it does in its own neighborhood. The academy, whose four performance venues are home to a wide range of dance, opera, theater and concert events, may be in Brooklyn, but its success has, to some critics, made it less and less relevant to the troubled downtown in which it sits.
Certainly there are many signs of vitality. At a time when other arts groups worry about their aging and declining audiences, the academy has been more successful than any other institution in New York in attracting a highly sophisticated, younger audience: the very audience other institutions say they crave. Surveys have shown that 80 percent of the Next Wave audience is under age 40.
"Harvey has created a more diverse and younger audience at BAM than at Lincoln Center," said Bernard Gersten, executive producer of the Lincoln Center Theater. "We are genuinely jealous. We all want to have people who dress funny and have people with -- well, hair. And Harvey does."
Even some of his habitual critics have praise for Mr. Lichtenstein's ability to keep the academy in the public eye. "Harvey is a brilliant promoter," said Samuel Lipman, publisher of The New Criterion, a neo-conservative monthly journal of the arts. Mr. Lipman sparred for years with Mr. Lichtenstein when both were on the National Council of the Arts. "BAM has gotten a fabulous press, because the press is bored and tired of writing every week about the Philharmonic and the Metropolitan Opera."
One major difference between last year and this year at the academy is the optimism over the current Next Wave Festival, which opened last night in the academy's Majestic Theater with "Frida," a musical-theater work exploring the life of the Mexican painter Frida Kahlo.
In addition to anticipated debuts like that of "The Hard Nut," Mark Morris's comic reworking of "The Nutcracker," the series will include a revival of Robert Wilson and Philip Glass's "Einstein on the Beach," the epic opera that made a splash at the academy in 1984 and helped to establish the Next Wave Festival as a national and international event on the arts scene. (The success of "Einstein" was followed by such high-impact Next Wave events as Peter Brook's nine-hour Indian epic, "The Mahabharata" in 1987, and John Adams's operas "Nixon in China" in 1987 and "The Death of Klinghoffer" in 1991.)
This year's ticket advance for the Next Wave is $520,000, a huge upsurge from the $148,000 in ticket sales at this point last year, and the academy expects many productions to be sold out.
The upturn for the Next Wave comes after a 1991 season that many critics felt was dull and cautious, and that Mr. Lichtenstein admitted reflected the impact of budget cuts. Although in its early years the festival established a position as America's Parnassus of avant-garde performance, the recession has taken its toll; funds for last year's festival dropped $600,000 from 1990, to $1.6 million. And despite the excitement over this year's festival, some academy watchers have come "to worry whether the festival has begun to play it safe," as Jack Anderson, a dance critic, wrote last year in The New York Times. Others point out that the avant-garde movement itself is aging and may not be as interesting as it was, devolving into a recycling of 60's counterculture while pretending to be breaking new ground.
"The avant-garde is weaker than it was 25 years ago, when Harvey came to BAM," said Mr. Lipman. "The historical verdict on what Harvey has done does not seem to me to be so strong."
For several years, those at the academy have shunned the very term avant-garde, preferring to use "vanguard" and other terms. "Our esthetic isn't at all that of the 60's, it's very contemporary," said Mr. Lichtenstein. "We're still trying to find new experimental work, and we're doing it in a broader network than ever. I think Next Wave is as daring as it was in 1983. We're certainly not stuck in a time warp."
 
Still in the Shadow Of a Failed Troupe
 Mr. Lichtenstein said he thought of the academy "as a presenting organization, not as a producing organization." If there is a reluctance to gamble more on production, some think it may date from Mr. Lichtenstein's brave but disastrous enthusiasm for creating a classical American repertory troupe in 1979, the BAM Theater Company. The group was underwhelming to both critics and audiences, and expired in 1981, leaving the academy $2 million in debt. "My heart is still with that company," said Mr. Lichtenstein.
Beyond the Next Wave, the academy's budget is $13.2 million for the fiscal year that ends next June, up more than $600,000 since 1990. Revenues from ticket and other sales are nearly $4.6 million, an increase of more than $450,000 since 1990. Despite budget and programming reductions, attendance has risen steadily during the last two years, from 218,000 to 232,000 last year.
Mr. Lichtenstein has worked hard to bring those people into the academy's four spaces: the 2,000-seat Opera House, the 1,000-seat Owen Carey Playhouse, the multi-purpose Lepercq Space and the 878-seat Majestic Theater on Fulton Street. Generally, given the academy's budget restrictions, this has meant scaling down the size and cost of productions rather then offering fewer productions, though the 1993 Next Wave will have 8 productions instead of 10, said Joseph V. Melillo, the academy's producing director.
When Mr. Lichtenstein took over the nearly moribund academy in 1967, the annual budget was $675,000, the Opera House had nonacademy tenants and many in Brooklyn bypassed the building on their way to Manhattan for theater, dance and music.
"It took us 12 to 15 years to get an audience to respond to the work we were doing," Mr. Lichtenstein said.
 
Staying in One Place With a Vision
 These days, after the collapse of arts festival after arts festival, the 63-year-old Mr. Lichtenstein stands apart for his quality of indomitability. "I think he has a great reputation because he's stayed in one place and had a clear vision over a long period of time and done it consistently," said Dr. Michael C. Hardy, executive director of the International Society of Performing Arts Administrators.
Those on his staff confirm that Mr. Lichtenstein, though still capable of an explosive reaction when dis pleased, has mellowed. "It's true I was very volatile in the early days," he said. "But now I'm more relaxed because I have a great staff -- and because of the erosion of the years."
But by all accounts, including his own, Mr. Lichtenstein is as vital and energetic as a presenter as he was 25 years ago. "BAM isn't tired, and neither am I," he said. "Just look at what we did with 'Les Atrides.' "
The academy's Brooklyn location and its nonmainstream stance has kept it from attracting to its board of directors the kind of deep-pocketed benefactors who are the ornaments of higher-profile, Manhattan-based institutions.
Nevertheless, this year, William I. Campbell, the president and chief executive officer of Philip Morris U.S.A., joined the academy's 38-member board (Philip Morris Companies Inc., the Next Wave's chief corporate sponsor, gave $450,000 to this year's festival.) And in March Bruce C. Ratner, an energetic 47-year-old real-estate developer with major interests in Downtown Brooklyn, became the new board president.
Last year's fiscal crisis clearly shook up, and woke up, the board, which is now looking for long-range solutions to the academy's fiscal problems. For example, to replace recession fund losses, board members put together a consortium of major corporations in Downtown Brooklyn that, early this year, committed $1.5 million to the academy over a three-year period in an initiative known as the Metrotech Downtown Fund.
 
It's in Brooklyn, Yes, Yet Is It of Brooklyn?
 Despite the academy's Brooklyn-based swagger, it is still true that at some performances Manhattanites outnumber Brooklynites, underlining longstanding questions about its identity. Is it at times something of an alien entity in the borough that gave it a name?
"BAM is not a community center," Mr. Lichtenstein responded, "but we have a tremendous commitment to Brooklyn." He points to the 15-year-old Dance Africa Festival, the largest annual festival of black dance in the United States, which the academy heavily markets to Brooklyn residents; to the academy's performing-arts programs, which he says reach 100,000 school children annually, and to events like the annual Martin Luther King Day celebration, which the academy sponsors.
In 1988 the academy established the 651/Kings Majestic Corporation, an independent presenting group affiliated with the academy that creates arts events like last year's 100 Years of Jazz and Blues festival. In addition, in 1981 the academy organized the BAM Local Development Corporation to support the revitalization and redevelopment of the 16-block area surrounding the academy in Fort Greene and Downtown Brooklyn.
In 1989 Mr. Lichtenstein began a new opera-programming initiative, offering a series of contemporary works, rarities and adventurously staged productions from the standard repertory. The academy has presented the American debut of the Welsh National Opera, the Paris Opera Comique's production of Lully's "Atys" in its American premiere, the United States debut of the Theatre Royal de la Monnaie of Brussels, and the American premiere of the "The Death of Klinghoffer," directed by Peter Sellars and choreographed by Mark Morris.
In 1990, however, several opera productions were canceled for lack of money. Matthew Epstein, the respected manager and opera consultant who was hired in 1986 to revitalize the academy's opera program, resigned in 1990 because of budgetary constraints. In addition, that year the Metropolitan Opera, citing monetary problems, withdrew from a collaboration planned for 1991.
"Our plans for opera will be as ambitious as our budget will allow," said Mr. Lichtenstein. Among the works the academy hopes to bring in next season include "Orphee," a Philip Glass chamber opera based on the 1949 Jean Cocteau movie, and a fully staged production of "Medea" from the Paris Opera Comique.
Three years ago, the Brooklyn Philharmonic Orchestra, which has been housed at the academy since the group's inception in 1953, established an affiliation agreement with the academy that made the Philharmonic the resident orchestra. The two organizations now share administrators and facilities while remaining separate, nonprofit companies.
In November 1991, Dennis Russell Davies became principal conductor of the Philharmonic, replacing Lukas Foss, and Mr. Davies has chosen to present fewer orchestral warhorses and more contemporary programs -- positioning itself, in effect, as an alternative orchestra.
The transition has been painful, and subscribership has dropped below 3,000 this year from about 3,600 last year. "Yes, subscription has dropped dramatically," said Mr. Lichtenstein, "but we had no choice. We can't compete with other traditional orchestras."
Then, speaking of the orchestra yet sounding a theme that has long animated his vision for the academy as a whole, Mr. Lichtenstein added: "We have to find a new niche and build our audience."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harvey Lichtenstein, at rear, president of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, with staff members, from left, Bruce C. Ratner, president of the academy's 38-member board; Karen Brooks Hopkins, executive vice president, and Joseph V. Melillo, producing director. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times) (pg. C15); Helen Schneider in "Frida," which opened the Next Wave Festival at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. (William Gibson/Martha Swope Associates/Brooklyn Academy of Music); The success of the academy, some critics contend, has made it less relevant to its troubled downtown Brooklyn neighborhood. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC AQUANTIVE INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEXT WAVE FESTIVAL ANNIVERSARIES (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TICKET SALES (78%); THEATER (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); 

PERSON: LICHTENSTEIN, HARVEY; COLLINS, GLENN JOSEPH PAPP (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



515 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
Trying for a Debate Worthy of the Name

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
The lone moderator in tonight's meeting of Presidential candidates, Carole Simpson of ABC, is faced with the job of turning it into something resembling a debate. If she succeeds, the result should prove more rewarding to viewers than Sunday night's set of assertions and animadversions or Tuesday night's Vice-Presidential slanging match. Sunday's meeting was not the worst such show the nation has endured. But as in other years, the reporters, who outnumbered the candidates, were hemmed in by rules imposed by the political parties to keep the pressure down: a question; a two-minute answer; two one-minute rebuttals, which rarely rebutted; next question.
By this time in the long campaign, the two major candidates are like walking commercials. Their personas have been packaged and repackaged, and on the big night they showed off their labels: Experience from George Bush; Change from Bill Clinton. Even the here-today-gone-yesterday Ross Perot, who won compliments for his pithy cracks, relied on Trust Me. It was like watching humanoids spring full-blown from focus groups. 
 If tonight's meeting is to dig into substance, Ms. Simpson will have to tear away more vigorously at the protective wrappings than the amiable Hal Bruno could do on Tuesday.
The format may help. Questions from the audience are to be featured. These tend to be used by politicians as launching pads for any missiles they happen to have in stock. That's why they love to go on "Larry King Live." But perhaps Ms. Simpson will be permitted to give professional help to the amateur questioners, with follow-ups that can whip the candidate back to what is being asked.
For example, if Mr. Perot asserts, as usual, that whatever is needed, he would just do it, Ms. Simpson may inquire approximately what he would do, about, say, education, besides bringing together the wisest people in the country.
If Mr. Bush waxes optimistic yet again about America's economic condition, Ms. Simpson may ask why voters should find him more reassuring than all the optimistic White House surrogates who have been filling talk shows with good news for the last two years or more.
And she may beg Mr. Clinton to explain, so that simple folk can understand, where he will find the money he promises to pour into industrial growth, education, job retraining, police protection and other desirable causes without increasing the oppressive national debt.
As for the closer encounters of the candidates permitted by having a single moderator, the problem, made evident on Tuesday, is that cameras (and studio partisans, who can be counted on to ignore the moderator's plea for no applause) invite punchy one-liners. For all the seasonal incantations about the abiding wisdom of the American people, what candidate is about to entrust his chances to a television audience's patience or sophistication by analyzing difficult issues in public? Since any expression of an honest reservation, not to say uncertainty, lays one open to a charge of waffling, the screen rings with assurances about matters that defy assurance.
Or, as Dan Quayle demonstrated, the contender can pound away at what somebody has told him is an opponent's vulnerable spot: "Do you trust Bill Clinton to be your President?" Or, like Al Gore, he may try for a dramatic moment, demanding repeatedly that the Vice President raise his hand and take a pro-choice oath. Why shouldn't the dignified James B. Stockdale have switched off his hearing aid?
Ms. Simpson will be faced with the fact that debates have a way of descending to the level of the most shameless competitor, and it will be up to her to try to keep her men more or less on the subject. As Mr. Bruno observed somewhat wanly, "We throw out the topic and then we drift."
When desperation strikes in the final weeks of a campaign, anything goes, particularly on television. Nevertheless, there is much to be said for letting the candidates have at each other. The Quayle-Gore exchanges on matters like the environment, abortion and defense spending did bring out real differences. And besides adding a touch of excitement to prime time, man-to-man confrontations provoke reactions of a sort that prudent campaigners do their best to restrain and that may reveal something of a person's character, pardon the expression.
No moderator can compel Mr. Bush, Mr. Clinton or Mr. Perot to address the gaps in their respective proposals or keep them from resorting to mere insults. But let's hope Ms. Simpson will try harder than her predecessors to use what power she has to encourage candor and extract information. That would also make for a better show than this debate week has yet produced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC) AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (90%); COS INC (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; TELEVISION; DEBATING; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); FOCUS GROUPS (52%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: SIMPSON, CAROLE; GOODMAN, WALTER; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



516 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Abrams: TV Spots to Mark Remaining Days of Campaign

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
After modest use of television advertising, this 30-second ad is the first in a series of commercials the Abrams campaign intends to use in major markets throughout the state in the remaining days before the election. It began airing last night.
 
PRODUCER Struble-Totten of Washington.
 

ANNOUNCER Scandal after scandal after scandal. Al D'Amato has betrayed our trust. But even worse, D'Amato opposes national health insurance. Voted for the Bush policies that wrecked New York's economy. And supports the Mexican trade pact that will cost us thousands of jobs. He voted with the radical right to defeat the civil rights act. And ban all abortions. Al D'Amato swears he hasn't done anything wrong. But the question is, has he done anything right?
 
ON THE SCREEN The backdrop is a collage of newspaper stories reflecting issues for which Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato has been criticized. As the announcer begins to cite each of Mr. D'Amato's positions, with a billboard at the bottom of the screen to highlight each one, a close-up of the senator's face is super-imposed over the collage, faintly at first, then gaining dominance over the newspapers as the commercial concludes.
 
ACCURACY The commercial frames State Attorney General Robert Abrams's position on several key issues by defining Mr. D'Amato. But the quick-hit phrases represent only broad interpretations, at best, of Mr. D'Amato's positions.
The national health care program the Senator opposes, for example, is a pending plan that Mr. Abrams endorses and many Congressmen view as too costly. The contention that Mr. D'Amato has supported the Administration's position that "wrecked" the state economy is only partially correct, in that Mr. D'Amato has often voted against the President's position. Also, it remains unclear whether Federal policies have cost the state jobs and, if so, to what degree. Further, while Mr. D'Amato favored a trade agreement with Mexico, he claims that it benefits the state by $900 million a year.
The reference to the civil rights act is based on the Senator's vote to sustain President Bush's veto of the Civil Rights Act of 1990, and his position on abortion reflects Mr. D'Amato's consistent voting record in opposing abortion rights.
 
SCORECARD Besides the verbal mesasge that suggests Mr. D'Amato is wrong in his positions and harmful to the state, ominous music plays in the background, adding a foreboding mood to the ad.
Although his opponent's positions are portrayed with minimal exactitude, the ad is one of the few in the campaign from either candidate that addresses issues, rather than personal attacks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); VETO (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); ABORTION (74%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); HEALTH CARE (64%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



517 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
Looming Discord in Asia

BYLINE: By LEON V. SIGAL

 BODY:
As America draws down its armed forces in East Asia, many strategists worry that the Pacific won't remain pacific for long. They fear that the resulting power vacuum could set off a scramble for security. But that need not happen, not if America's diplomatic engagement intensifies as its military presence is reduced.
The countries of the region are a diverse, disputatious lot whose trade rivalries and territorial conflicts are now breaking out of their cold war confines. 
 South and North Korea, fearing each other and Japanese resurgence, vie for China's favor. Japan, thwarted by Russia's refusal to return four islands seized at the end of World War II, and Russia, angered at Japan's demands for their return, may each want to ally with China as well. Meanwhile, renewed Chinese assertiveness in the Spratly Islands raises fear from India to Australia. And the whole region is engaged in a frenzy of arms purchases.
To allay the insecurities and cool the conflicts, many countries in the region want Washington to remain engaged. But that need not mean maintaining the U.S. military presence at current levels. U.S. troops on the Korean Peninsula can continue to be pulled back from the 38th parallel and further reduced as talks between the North and South progress. U.S. carrier task forces are not needed to show the flag; Aegis cruisers will do. And Navy operating tempos can slow.
But high-level U.S. diplomatic attention cannot afford to recede. A multilateral forum with regular meetings might assure America's active engagement.
The U.S., Japan, China and Russia are already brokering a cease-fire in Cambodia and coaxing North Korea to give up its nuclear ambitions. And they could be guarantors of a more permanent peace. But this nascent Concert of Asia may best be left to operate informally.
It would also be premature to create an Asian analogue of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. A more promising forum for now may be the Association of Southeast Asian Nations if all four powers and other Asians can be made full participants.
Engagement has risks. Regional conflicts may require Washington to take sides. But American disengagement is far riskier. That could set off an arms competition and shifting alliances that, sooner or later, lead to war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (96%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); SPRATLY ISLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (96%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); SPRATLY ISLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); ARMS TRADE (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: SIGAL, LEON V

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



518 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
No Longer for Bush

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
Foreign leaders, seeing American economic troubles and sensing the passage of their comfortable second-fiddle days, are beginning to think of the U.S. and themselves in new and revolutionary ways. The trends are unmistakable in the comments of leaders and diplomats moving in and out of the U.N. and Washington in recent weeks.
Many, except mainly Arabs, are setting aside their generation-old preference for Republican realism in foreign affairs. Their top priority now is a U.S. President who can restore America's economic dynamism -- and thus help jolt their own economies. And like Americans, they are losing faith that George Bush can do the job. 
 Many world leaders also are recalibrating America's power and importance. To them, the U.S. remains pre-eminent, but not as lofty as before -- except in the military sphere. In other arenas, foreign leaders are taking initiatives without waiting for Washington's blessing.
Even as these new attitudes evolve, one upshot is already clear: The world's major industrial powers are not lifting a finger to help President Bush's re-election -- as they helped him four years ago and as they have backed his Republican predecessors since 1972, when George McGovern made Democrats look like isolationists.
Four years ago, Japan and Germany propped up the value of the dollar to make the U.S. economy look stronger and give Mr. Bush a lift over Michael Dukakis. This year, Tokyo did nothing to reduce its huge trade surplus with the U.S., and Bonn's bankers rejected White House pleas to lower interest rates. Western Europeans and most Asians have their own problems; Mr. Bush will have to fend for himself in 1992.
At the same time, most world leaders applaud Bill Clinton's enthusiasm for issues like environmentalism and population control. These are very big matters outside the U.S., and Mr. Bush has been a tremendous drag on both.
Most of all, leaders of industrialized democracies look to Mr. Clinton to do something about the beleaguered U.S. economy. They think his ideas somewhat fuzzy. But at least he has ideas -- unlike Mr. Bush.
The notable exception to this trend away from supporting Mr. Bush is Arab states. Kuwait changed plans to buy tanks from Britain and decided to buy American instead. The Saudis, though strapped for cash, went ahead with a multibillion-dollar purchase of F-15 fighter-bombers.
Chinese leaders are also staying by Mr. Bush's side. They gave in to his trade demands and did not explode over U.S. F-16 fighter sales to Taiwan.
China's present rulers cringe when they think about the intrusive passions of Democrats for human rights and democracy. So do most other world leaders.
Many leaders are putting aside these qualms about a Democratic foreign policy and their affinity for Republican pragmatism abroad in hope that Democrats can repair America. In the past they rarely worried about our economy, often demanding financial sacrifices of the U.S. as the price of its leadership. Now such sacrifices are too much to ask.
Western Europeans continue to struggle toward greater economic unity, largely without reference to Washington. The economic power of the European Community, even in disarray, equals America's. Its members can afford to settle their internal matters themselves.
Japanese leaders are planning new initiatives on the environment, trade and refugees. They will go ahead with these plans to define their own leadership role whether Mr. Bush wins or loses -- or the U.S. approves or disapproves.
Most surprisingly, Syria and the Palestinians will bring new ideas to next week's talks with Israel. They have evolved their own interests in advancing negotiations even without heavy U.S. pressure.
Where the U.S. still counts most is on the military front. There, others remain fearful of treading without U.S. muscle or leadership. European passivity on Bosnia is typical.
Much else, however, is turning topsy-turvy. For the first time since 1945, most of the world seems ready to forgo American leadership on certain issues, knowing America must focus on healing itself. Meantime, many nations will begin to accept greater responsibility for their own problems. All in all, these are healthy trends -- if the U.S. seizes the chance to fix itself up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (74%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); CURRENCIES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1992



519 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 2147 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Debate;
ISSUES, NOT ATTACKS, DOMINATE AS AUDIENCE GUIDES 2D DEBATE

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
The three Presidential candidates engaged in an earnest town-meeting exchange last night that became a forum for airing the nation's domestic woes during President Bush's Administration.
Mr. Bush defended his record and his sensitivity to the suffering of the recession. "Of course, you feel it when you're President of the United States," he said. 
 But he asserted that a Clinton Presidency would mean huge new taxes rather than a growing economy. "Governor Clinton's program wants to tax more and spend more," Mr. Bush said. "I don't believe that's the way to do it."
Governor Clinton, however, quickly dismissed the charge.
It was a night in which there were a few sweeping promises. Ross Perot, the independent candidate, promised he would serve only one term and would not take compensation for the $200,000-a-year job. Mr. Clinton promised to propose a universal health-care plan in the first 100 days of his Presidency.
 
Thrives on Format
 Mr. Clinton, who seemed to thrive on the town-meeting format that he had used throughout his primary campaign, presented himself as a man with long years of experience in dealing with the problems of ordinary people. He also asserted that the blame for these problems clearly rested with the "failed economic theory" of the Republicans.
Mr. Perot once again sharply criticized the "gridlock" in Washington, casting the two parties as mired in a cycle of blame that produced only economic drift and decline. "It's not the Republicans' fault, of course, and it's not the Democrats' fault," he said. "Somewhere out there there's an extraterrestrial that's doing this to us, I guess."
At the start of the program and in his closing statement, Mr. Bush tried to move the debate to the issue of character and trust, which he said should be a paramount consideration for voters when they choose a President, and suggested that Mr. Clinton did not pass the test. He asked the voters which President they would prefer in the event of an international crisis.
As for Mr. Clinton, at one point he looked at Mr. Bush and said: "I'm not interested in his character. I want to change the character of the Presidency."
 
Little New Ground
 But in general, it was a night that broke little new substantive ground and offered Mr. Bush few opportunities for the dramatic strokes that his strategists think he needs to come back from a clear deficit in the public opinion polls.
Mr. Clinton, for his part, seemed clearly content to avoid confrontations and follow a no-risk strategy befitting a front-runner. He pointedly turned away from opportunities to respond to Mr. Bush's probing attacks on his character and to take on the President over his handling of Iraq.
The 90-minute debate, held on the campus of the University of Richmond, opened the candidates to questions from an audience of 209 people selected by the Gallup Organization to represent uncommitted voters. Carole Simpson, of ABC News, was the moderator. The questioners were relentlessly focused on issues, from gun control to free trade, from health care to urban woes.
The unusual format, with the candidates occasionally perched on stools and occasionally wandering the stage like talk show hosts, made for a far less confrontational debate than might have been expected, given the tenor of the campaign dialogue in recent days.
More than once, members of the audience gently chided the candidates for not sticking to the issues this year.
Still, Mr. Bush again assailed Mr. Clinton as a man who habitually straddled the issues. He also took pains to answer Mr. Clinton's attack of Sunday night's debate, in which the Democrat pointedly noted that Mr. Bush's father, Senator Prescott Bush, had been a leading critic of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy. Democrats have accused the Republicans of practicing McCarthyite tactics against Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Bush's reply last night suggested that the allusion to his father had nagged him. "I remember something my Dad told me," Mr. Bush said. "I was 18 years old, going to Penn Station to go on into the Navy, and he said, 'write your mother,' which I faithfully did; he said 'serve your country,' -- my father was an honor, duty and country man -- and he said, 'tell the truth.' And I've tried to do that in public life, all through it. That says something about character."
Despite the occasional personal jab, the debate was dominated by domestic concerns. The only question on foreign policy came more than an hour into the debate, and it was a general inquiry about how the country should participate in the "new world order."
The candidates agreed that the United States should remain an international superpower. Mr. Bush tied the collapse of Communism to steady Republican stewardship, while Mr. Clinton and Mr. Perot insisted that the nation had to improve economically to maintain its strength internationally.
Mr. Perot, who was widely considered the winner of the first debate, spoke mostly in generalities last night. While he consistently contended that ridding the country of its huge deficit was crucial, he did not use the forum to advance his package of austere tax increases and spending cuts.
Mr. Perot tried to distinguish himself from his rivals on trade, lambasting what he asserted was a government that failed to look after the interests of the home front when trade agreements were negotiated.
Mr. Bush countered that the nation's economic problems would be much worse without strong exports. "Free and fair trade is the answer, not protection," he said.
Mr. Clinton sounded a similar theme, arguing, "The trick is to expand our export base and to expand trade on terms that are fair to us." To do that, he said, requires making sure that markets in other countries are as open to the United States as America is to foreign products, and changing the tax code to insure that it encourages investment at home.
On the subject of the deficit, the candidates were asked to detail how much they would reduce it in four years and whether they would promise not to seek re-election if they failed.
Governor Clinton said he would not make such a promise, warning that overly drastic measures would harm the economy. Instead, he said he would work to cut the deficit in half in his first term, which he contended would still allow for measures to spur economic growth.
Mr. Bush countered, "I don't see how you can grow the deficit down by increasing taxes."
Mr. Perot, who said he did not plan to seek re-election, repeated his pledge to make cutting the deficit a priority and charged that the two major parties had proved themselves unable to deal with it.
Several questioners expressed disgust at what they said was the mudslinging tone of the campaign and asked the candidates to discuss national issues rather than dwelling on character questions.
Mr. Perot said issues were exactly what he was trying to talk about, noting that he had bought 30-minute chunks of television advertising time to describe in detail his economic proposals. "Let's talk jobs, health care and crime," he said.
But Mr. Bush said "character is part of being President," as important to qualities of leadership as detailed programs. He accused Governor Clinton of starting the negative campaigning and said, "I'm not going to sit there being a punching bag."
He renewed his attack on Governor Clinton's involvement in Vietnam War protests while he was studying at Oxford University in England in the 1960's. He said he was "deeply troubled by someone who demonstrates and organizes demonstrations against his government in a foreign country."
 
Is It a Generation Gap?
 "Maybe that's generational," he said.
Mr. Clinton, responding briefly, said he was disheartened by "the tenor and tone of this campaign."
Mr. Bush defended his domestic accomplishments throughout the night. For example, he said he supported one questioner's call for doing more to rebuild the cities and the nation's roads, bridges and water systems. He said that this year the Government passed the "furthest looking transportation bill in the history of this country since Eisenhower started the interstate highway program." The President also defended his call for enterprise zones to help revive the nation's inner cities. He said he was frustrated at the difficulty in getting such a proposal through Congress, but acknowledged that he had threatened to veto the bill that provided tax breaks for investments in poor urban areas.
 
Motives for Veto
 He said he objected to other provisions of the bill added by Democrats in Congress and used the discussion to appeal anew for a line-item veto. If he had that, he said, "we could knock out the pork, knock out the tax increases and do what the people want us to do, create enterprise zones."
But Mr. Clinton quickly retorted that the real reason Mr. Bush wanted to veto the bill, which included several tax increases that Mr. Bush opposed, was because it "asks the wealthy to pay a little more." Sensitive to charges of dirty campaigning made by some in the audience, Mr. Clinton insisted that his charge was not "mudslinging but fact-slinging."
All three candidates tried to tread lightly on the politically perilous ground of gun control. Governor Clinton said that while he supported the right of people to keep arms, he supported a bill in Congress that would require people seeking to buy guns to submit to a waiting period while their backgrounds could be checked for mental illness or criminal records.
Mr. Bush said he opposed the gun-control bill, named for James Brady, the former White House press secretary who was severely wounded in the attempted assassination of President Ronald Reagan in 1981.
President Bush said, "I was not for the bill because it was not tough enough on criminals."
Mr. Perot called the Brady bill "a timid step in the right direction."
The candidates split three ways on the question whether members of Congress should be subject to term limitations.
"I strongly support term limits," said President Bush, staking out ground taken by most Republicans in the Democrat-controlled Congress. He said he believed "this would return government closer to the people."
 
Merits of Term Limits
 Mr. Clinton said term limits "may be popular, but I am against them." He said they would "pose a lot of problems for little states" and "would increase the influence of staff members -- people who were never elected."
Mr. Perot responded: "I intend to be there one term. I don't want to spend one day thinking about re-election. I will take absolutely no compensation.
"The point is we have got to reform government. If you don't reform government, term limits won't help."
On the issue of health care, Mr. Clinton reiterated his promise to produce a national health-care plan in the first 100 days of his Presidency. Mr. Bush said a leading factor driving up health costs was malpractice suits. "They're breaking the system," he said, noting they cost more than $20 billion a year. "I want to see those outrageous claims capped."
He said he wanted to make insurance available to the poor and to allow Americans to take their health-care policies with them when they leave their jobs.
The questioners sometimes seemed to unsettle the candidates. Mr. Bush took umbrage with what he saw as the premise of a woman who asked how each of the candidates had been personally affected by the national debt. He said she seemed to be suggesting that people of means were untouched by it. "I don't think it's fair to say that if you haven't had cancer, therefore you don't know what it's like," he said.
"You ought to be in the White House for a day, hear what I hear, see what I see, the mail I read," he said. "Everybody's affected by debt. Everything is more expensive. Everything comes out of your pocket and my pocket."
Mr. Perot said his decision to enter the Presidential race, disrupting his private life and business, was evidence of his deep concern with the debt.
 
Economic Woes Discussed
 Mr. Clinton used this moment to make an impassioned case for his commitment and his closeness to the nation's economic woes. He said that as Governor of Arkansas for 12 years, and as a candidate over these past two years, he had seen the troubled economy and its toll up close. "When a factory closes, I know the people who ran it," he said. "For the last 13 months, I've been meeting with people like you all over America, who have lost their livelihoods, their jobs, their health insurance."
But he told the questioner that the deficit was not the only cause of these problems, citing a lack of investment in America's people and years of what he called trickle-down economics. "We're in the grip of a failed economic theory," he said. "And this election better be about what kind of economic theory you want."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton arguing in front of Ross Perot during the debate last night. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); President Bush, Ross Perot and Gov. Bill Clinton during their debate last night at the University of Richmond. They answered questions from an audience of 209 people selected to represent uncommitted voters. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (59%); UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (59%); UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RICHMOND (VA) UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; TELEVISION; ELECTION ISSUES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (95%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



520 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: New York City and Environs Land Goodwill Games for '98

BYLINE: By FILIP BONDY

 BODY:
It was a sporting upset in the fine tradition of New York. Only this time it was the city itself, and the metropolitan area, that managed the surprise.
New York City, New Jersey and Long Island were awarded the 1998 Goodwill Games last night, an intriguing but risky choice by the Games' selection committee. Six years from now, the area will be called upon to play host to thousands of international athletes and fans who have every right to expect upgraded athletic facilities and a convenient ride to the arena. 
 The final decision came late last night in Atlanta, after hours of debate by a nine-member selection committee following final presentations in the afternoon. The committee reportedly had a sharp, lengthy debate about the merits of the New York and Dallas bids, after eliminating the other two finalists, South Florida and St. Louis.
The victory was a major plum for the New York City Sports Commission and its eager young director, Matt Scheckner, who estimates the extravaganza could pump as much as $500 million into the city's economy. The New York metropolitan area has never been host to a bigger, more demanding sporting event encompassing as many competitions.
The Games are held every four years. The 1994 Games in St. Petersburg, Russia, are expected to feature 2,500 athletes from more than 50 countries in 24 sports. The 1998 Games are likely to be at least as ambitious. According to the bid proposal, New York organizers will invest more than $55 million in preparation for the 1998 event, funds they hope to raise largely through private contributions and possibly through a special state-endorsed lottery.
The Goodwill Games will require the New York organizers to construct a new velodrome and aquatic center. Most of the events, however, will utilize existing facilities. The athletes' village will be placed at Hofstra University in Hempstead, L.I.; opening ceremonies will be at Ellis Island; closing ceremonies will be at Lincoln Center; gymnastics and basketball at Madison Square Garden; boxing at the Paramount Theater; figure skating and ice hockey at Nassau Coliseum on Long Island; rowing at Orchard Bay in the Bronx; soccer at Fordham University, and track and field at Columbia University's Wien Stadium, at the northern end of Manhattan.
Jack Kelly, the president of the Goodwill Games and co-chairman of the Site Selection Committee, said more than 60 percent of the Olympic medalists at Barcelona had participated in the 1990 Goodwill Games in Seattle.
 
Created by Ted Turner
 The Goodwill Games were conceived in the mid-1980's by Ted Turner and featured on his Turner Broadcasting System as a cooperative competition that would match the Soviet Union's top athletes against those of the United States.
At the time, because of successive Summer Olympic boycotts, the two athletic superpowers had not faced each other in top competition for a number of years. The United States led a boycott of the 1980 Summer Games in Moscow, and the Soviet Union instigated an Eastern bloc boycott of the 1984 Games in Los Angeles.
With Turner as the catalyst, the first Goodwill Games were held in Moscow, in 1986.
With the breakup of the Soviet Union and the end of the cold war, the Goodwill Games are now a more diverse affair. The primary opponent for the United States is now Russia, but the other former Soviet republics will be represented in the competition.
Kelly had worried that New York might be too big to focus its energies on such an event. The United States National Track and Field Championships at Randalls Island in 1991 represented such a mini-disaster, as the city largely ignored the prestigious event.
But Kelly also said the city offered tremendous cultural advantages, and Scheckner pointed out that the New York area's infrastructure is accustomed to handling massive transportation problems on a regular basis.
"These Games would not be heavy lifting for New York," Scheckner said.
Gov. Mario Cuomo lobbied Wednesday in Atlanta on behalf of the New York bid, grabbing the ear of Turner, who is the chief financial sponsor of the Games. Turner had no official vote among the nine voting members of the board of directors, but his influence might have been a factor in the decision.
The Goodwill Games' organizers, including Turner, are scheduled to hold a news conference at Madison Square Garden this afternoon to make an official announcement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TBS (AMEX) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY SPORTS COMMISSION NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (57%); NEW YORK CITY SPORTS COMMISSION (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY SPORTS COMMISSION NEW YORK CITY SPORTS COMMISSION (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW JERSEY; LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

SUBJECT: GOODWILL GAMES; FINANCES SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); CITIES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); THEATER (76%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (75%); TRACK & FIELD (73%); SOCCER (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); SPORTS FANS (71%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (66%); ICE SKATING (61%); ICE HOCKEY (57%); 

PERSON: SCHECKNER, MATT; BONDY, FILIP TED TURNER (84%); JACK KELLY (61%); MATT SCHECKNER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



521 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-8
 
WORDS FROM DOOMED AIRLINER
Sounds of panic broke out aboard Korean Air Lines flight 007 immediately after it was hit by a Soviet air-to-air missile near Sakhalin Island on Sept. 1, 1983, according to transcripts from the cockpit recorder that were published in the Russian newspaper Izvestia. A1
 
ROUND 2 IN ANGOLA EXPECTED
The former guerrilla leader Jonas Savimbi said he had been told by the United Nations that the President of Angola fell short of an outright victory, so they will meet in a runoff election. A3 

134 DIE IN SRI LANKA STRIFE
Tamil rebels attacked three villages in central Sri Lanka, killing at least 134 people, most of them Muslim civilians, military officials and witnesses said. A3
 
DEATH SENTENCE FOR SERIAL KILLER
A Russian court sentenced a 56-year-old man to death for the unusually sadistic sex murders of 52 boys, girls and young women. His lawyer said said he would file an appeal. A6
 
NO CERTAINTY ON LAOS SYMBOLS
A U.S. intelligence official said two sets of large symbols etched into the ground in Laos in 1973 and 1988 were almost certainly intended to send a message. But he said experts had not been able to prove or disprove that they were distress signals from U.S. prisoners of war. A6
 
OFFICER SUGGESTS JAPAN COUP
Frustrated by Japan's political scandals, a military officer suggested a coup as a solution. The suggestion appeared in Japan's largest-circulation weekly magazine and was at first seen as a joke by officials. A7
 
TALKS ON EUROPEAN UNITY
European leaders began gathering in Birmingham, England, for a day-long summit meeting to explore differences over the future of European political and monetary union. But British officials are dampening expectations of breakthroughs. A8
 
THE U.N. WARNS SADDAM HUSSEIN
The Security Council warned Iraq's President that it expected him to cooperate fully with the next team of inspectors who will be hunting down his most dangerous weapons. A8
 
URGENCY VOICED ON MIDEAST TALKS
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators warn that after a full year of discussions they may be running out of time to reach an agreement. A8
 
Sarajevo Journal: The zoo's lone survivor is a pitiful bear. A4
 
National A9-22
 
CANDIDATES FACE OFF 2d TIME
President Bush, Gov. Bill Clinton and Ross Perot engaged in an earnest town-meeting exchange that became a forum for airing the nation's domestic woes during President Bush's first term. A1
 
NO RESPITE FOR BUSH
While the President struggles to revive his re-election campaign, a number of agencies within his Administration seem to be coming unglued. A9
 
A ferocious internal battle broke out at the Justice Department. A18
 
STATE DEPT. ADMITS INFRACTION
The State Department dropped its contention that an urgent search for consular records about the European travels of the young Bill Clinton had been properly handled. Instead, the department said, the effort violated its own rules. A22
 
Gore escalated his attack over the Iran-contra and Iraq issues. A15
 
NEXT? MAYBE SOFTWARE PETS
Animated images like tropical fish are part of a software program called After Dark that is appearing with increasing frequency on idle office computer screens. The program's function is merely to prevent images from being burned into a screen and to prevent a neighbor from snooping when the user is away. Yet the software has topped best-seller charts this year, a sign that users relish giving personality to their workhorses. A1
 
U.S. TAKES STAND ON AIDS RULING
The Administration will urge the Supreme Court not to review a Federal court decision that allows employers to slash the health insurance coverage of workers who develop costly illnesses like AIDS. A18
 
NEW RESEARCH ON EXAMS
A national study found that widely used standardized tests might be hampering efforts to improve mathematics and science education and that they hurt minority students the most. A19
 
SMALL RAISE IN PENSION CHECKS
The Government announced that the cost-of-living adjustment for Social Security recipients in January would be only 3 percent, the smallest increase in six years. A20
 
A MAXIMUM LIFESPAN? MAYBE NOT
In a finding that has surprised experts who study aging, researchers have discovered that life expectancy may not always decrease as organisms grow older. A22
 
Should the mail be delivered only four days a week? A18
 
Law Page B18
 
If clients make the lawyer, Robert S. Bennett ranks at the top these days.
 
At the Bar
 
Metro Digest B1
 
4 KILLED OVER CHILD SUPPORT
A truck driver who claimed that child-support payments had ruined his life walked into a county office building today and fatally shot four women whose jobs were to track down and collect support money. A1
 
SHARP DEBATE, AND APOLOGY
Hours after Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and State Attorney General Robert Abrams sparred sharply over ethics and tactics in the first debate of their Senate campaign, Mr. Abrams formally apologized for calling the Senator a "fascist" at a campaign rally. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-31
 
Rock's New York landmarks. C1
 
Valley to relax in. C1
 
Spassky defeats an uncertain Fischer. C31
 
For Children C21
 
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
 
"Tartuffe" in Hartford. C15
 
Film: "Deadly Currents." C8
 
"Candyman." C10
 
"South-Central." C13
 
"Consenting Adults." C14
 
"American Fabulous." C14
 
Music: "Frida." C1
 
An evening of Ellington. C5
 
Dance: Martha Graham's "Clytemnestra." C3
 
Bill T. Jones. C3
 
Restaurants C24-25
 
Sports B8-15
 
Baseball: Game 7 . . . Joy for Cox, despair for Leyland. B9
 
Gaston and Jays reach the Promised Land. B9
 
Basketball: Homecoming of sorts for Daly, Nets coach. B14
 
Column: Vecsey on the World Series. B9
 
Football: Alabama's Palmer confronts his problems. B9
 
Hostetler starts for Giants. Then what? B12
 
Vikings overrun Lions. B12
 
Hockey: Islanders defeat Flyers. B13
 
Obituaries B7
 
Allen Friedman, ex-teamster who wrote of links to mob.
 
Cleveland L. Dennard, ally of Dr. King and ex-college chief.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A30-31
 
Editorials
 
How to slow the slaughter.
Cleaner Japan, easier ally.
The shameful TB epidemic.
Karl E. Meyer: James Stockdale.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: The lost moment.
 
Anthony Lewis: Rot of corruption.
 
Mark Singer: Quaylegate.
 
David Rockefeller Jr.: Why I trust Clinton.
 
Robert E. Hall and John B. Taylor: Economic scare stories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ANGOLA (93%); JAPAN (93%); SRI LANKA (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (88%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (76%); 

STATE: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (54%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (57%); PRISONERS OF WAR (54%); PRISONERS OF WAR (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (57%); PRISONERS OF WAR (54%); PRISONERS OF WAR (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ANGOLA (93%); JAPAN (93%); SRI LANKA (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (88%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (76%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (54%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); MURDER (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COUPS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); SENTENCING (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); TESTIMONY (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); WOMEN (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (64%); APPEALS (52%); MONETARY UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



522 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: News Analysis;
A No-Nonsense Sort of Talk Show

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
The format of the second Presidential debate last night may have resembled the sort of daytime talk shows where guests wax confessional and personal on all human idiosyncrasies. But when George Bush tried to press the character attack that his advisers see as his best hope to beat Bill Clinton, the audience swiftly cut him off.
They wanted a sober, serious discussion of issues: infrastructure, keeping jobs in the United States, crime, gun control, health care and deficit reduction. They did not ask about foreign policy in the first 65 minutes of the debate. They did not want to know about Mr. Clinton's draft record, marital problems, travel schedule in Moscow or antiwar activities in Europe. 
 Last night's debate in Richmond was the natural culmination of a campaign season that has been played out on television talk shows and other populist forums. But those who had worried that the "Oprah Winfrey" format, with the candidates perched on stools and the audience asking the questions, would lower the quality of the Presidential discourse, were proven very wrong.
It was a night in which the voters blew the whistle on mud wrestling and had a civilizing effect on the often feral 1992 campaign.
The President, cut off on character and foreign-policy issues for the most part and boxed into a situation where he was forced to confront his weakest issue, the economy, seemed uncomfortable and sometimes grew testy. By 9:50 P.M., he was checking his watch to see how much longer this infrastructure quizzing would go on.
Mr. Clinton, who suggested a format that he has made the medium for his campaign, had the empathy and confidence of a television evangelist, moving close to the questioners and urging one woman to repeat her question about whether Mr. Bush was out of touch.
Ross Perot offered his usual back-porch wisdom: "If you want to have a high-risk experience comparable to bungee-jumping, go into the Congress," he said. "Wear your safety-toe shoes when you go."
He accepted a pledge to avoid any negative campaigning and offered to forgo a salary and a second term if elected. Mr. Perot, who was positioned in the middle this time, tried to exert a physical dominance by standing most of the time before a stool that was too tall for him.
 
Jabs at Mr. Fixit
 But the audience and Carole Simpson, the ABC News correspondent who served as tart-tongued moderator, seemed less interested in colorful maxims and sweeping promises than in pinning him down on specific ideas.
Ms. Simpson was an unusually intrusive moderator: at one point she needled Mr. Perot about his know-it-all answers, and she drew a few laughs when she referred a question about schools to Mr. Bush as "the education President."
Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton, clearly relieved that Mr. Perot was not charming the audience as easily as he had in the first debate, both tried to capitalize on the sterner mood about economic solutions, by telling Mr. Perot, each at separate moments, a version of, "You can't just say you're going to fix it."
The President's original strategy had been to follow up on the Vice Presidential debate on Tuesday night, in which Dan Quayle aggressively pressed the issue of whether America can trust Bill Clinton.
Soon after the debate started, a woman in the audience complained that "the amount of time the candidates have spent in this campaign trashing their opponents' character and their programs is depressingly large."
At first, in an inaccurate reading of the audience mood, Mr. Bush only saw this question as an opening to push the trust issue. He accused Mr. Clinton of starting the fight and then resumed his attack on the Arkansas Governor for demonstrating against the Vietnam war while he was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford in 1969.
Then he began pressing another Republican argument that Mr. Clinton changes his positions regularly. "I do think that you can't turn the White House into the Waffle House," Mr. Bush said. He continued the assault, but was cut off by Ms. Simpson, who gave the floor to Mr. Clinton.
In reply, the Governor quoted a newspaper editorial that called Mr. Bush a political chameleon, but he seemed to quickly sense the change in temperature.
 
'The Night Belongs to You'
 "I'm not interested in his character," Mr. Clinton said. He added, turning to the questioner, "So I think you're right, and I hope the rest of the night belongs to you."
Mr. Clinton, who has been bruised by Republican attacks on his evasiveness on the draft and other issues, tried to make himself the victim. "I'm just as sick as you are by having to wake up and figure out how to defend myself every day," he said, walking toward the audience as though to identify with their concern. "I never thought I'd be involved in anything like this."
Mr. Perot, however, was the only one of the three candidates who was willing to "take the pledge," demanded by a man in the audience, that the candidates stick to the issues and stop "mud wrestling."
He also realized that the talk-show format, often used by people selling books or exercise videos, was the perfect place to plug his campaign advertisements.
 
Until Tomorrow
 "I'll see you tomorrow night. On NBC, 10:30 to 11 eastern," he told the crowd, expansively.
Mr. Bush thinks he is a good politician when he is able to be with voters one on one, as opposed to giving large set speeches. But it did not work tonight because the audience wanted to see where he planned to take the country and whether he understood their problems.
His worst moment came when a young black woman in the audience asked him pointedly and repeatedly, "How can you honestly find a cure for the economic problems of the common people if you have no experience in what's ailing them?"
Mr. Bush did not react warmly, saying, "Help me with the question, and I'll try to answer it."
Mr. Clinton immediately saw his opening to be a champion of the middle class. He moved toward the woman and said: "Tell me how it's affected you again. You know people who've lost their jobs and lost their homes?" The woman nodded and said, "Well, yeah."
He then explained that as governor of a small state, "When people lose their jobs, there's a good chance I'll know them by their names. When a factory closes, I know the people who ran it."
 
Endorsement for Barbara Bush
 Mr. Clinton even passed up an opening offered to him by Ms. Simpson to attack Mr. Bush on one of the Democrats' favorite issues, his friendly policy toward Iraq before the war in the Persian Gulf.
Struggling through the issues portion of the evening, Mr. Bush a couple of times tried to point to his best asset: Barbara Bush, who watched from the audience. At one point, sounding pessimistic about his own prospects, he said: "I think if Barbara Bush were running this year, she'd be elected, but it's too late."
In his closing statement, the President tried to return to his game plan, presenting himself as the more trustworthy of the two major party candidates.
"Who has the perseverance, the character, the integrity, the maturity to get the job done," he said. "I hope I'm that person."


GRAPHIC: Live television coverage of the last 90-minute debate will be provided by ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, C-Span, CNN and PBS.
 
Presidential
Chart: "Debate on the Air"
 Monday, Oct. 19
 East Lansing, Mich., 7 P.M. Eastern (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (62%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); GUN CONTROL (56%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); OPRAH WINFREY (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



523 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Troubled Oakland Tribune Is Sold Again

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., Oct. 15

 BODY:
The nation's only major black-owned daily newspaper, The Oakland Tribune, was sold today to the Alameda Newspaper Group, which owns four small dailies in the East Bay area.
The sale may end years of uncertainty at the unprofitable and debt-ridden newspaper, which its publisher, Robert C. Maynard, acquired from the Gannett Company in 1983. 
 "Today's announcement assures the people of Oakland that an Oakland Tribune will continue," Mr. Maynard said. "In an age when daily newspapers are disappearing from the American landscape, we are proud that this title will remain."
 
$9.5 Million in Loans
 Terms of the sale were not disclosed, except that the Alameda Newspaper Group will reimburse the Freedom Forum for the $9.5 million in loans that the journalism foundation made or guaranteed to The Tribune.
The Alameda Newspaper Group is part of Media News Group Inc., which also owns The Houston Post, The Denver Post and other newspapers.
Oakland, with a population of about 375,000, almost became the nation's largest city without a daily newspaper last year when The Tribune seemed on the brink of extinction, as it had many times before.
The Tribune was saved after Gannett agreed to concessions on the repayment of debts from Mr. Maynard's purchase of the newspaper, and the Freedom Forum offered to pump millions of dollars into the newspaper.
 
Effects of Recession
 Despite the bailouts, The Tribune has continued to suffer the effects of the recession.
"It has become painfully obvious to the Maynards and others that the market cannot support the weight of the newspaper's operation unless production, overhead and other costs are shared with other publications," said William Dean Singleton, chief executive of Media News Group in Houston.
The asset sale includes the trademark and use of the Oakland Tribune name, its circulation list and its advertising accounts. The sale does not include the landmark Tribune Tower, which dominates the Oakland skyline, or the antiquated printing presses.
The sale is subject to the completion of negotiations with The Tribune's labor unions and antitrust approval by the Justice Department.
The Alameda Newspaper Group publishes The Daily Review in Hayward, The Fremont Argus, The Alameda Times-Star and The Pleasanton Tri-Valley Herald. The Tribune will share production, accounting and administrative operations in Hayward with those papers.
The Tribune will have its own editorial, advertising and circulation staffs based in Oakland.
The four Alameda newspapers have a combined circulation of 120,000 a day and 648 employees.
The Tribune has a weekday circulation of 121,500, down from a peak of 220,000 in the late 1960's. The paper currently employs 600 people, although its work force has been reduced by years of attrition.
But the publisher of the Alameda Newspaper Group, J. Allan Meath, said The Tribune would employ only about 250 people after Dec. 1.
Mr. Meath invited current Tribune employees to apply for new jobs at the paper and predicted that many would be retained. But he added that others in the newspaper chain or from outside the paper would also be considered for the jobs.
Martin Snapp, a columnist at The Tribune, said his friends had for years brushed off his predictions of imminent unemployment during each of the paper's crises. "They thought I was crying wolf," he said. "Well, after all these years, the wolf finally ate us."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: OAKLAND TRIBUNE; ALAMEDA NEWSPAPER GROUP GANNETT CO INC (92%); DENVER POST CORP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND TRIBUNE; ALAMEDA NEWSPAPER GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); TRADEMARKS (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (67%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); APPROVALS (61%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: MAYNARD, ROBERT C; GROSS, JANE ROBERT C GROSS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



524 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Philip Morris Share Price Plunges 5%

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
The stock of the Philip Morris Companies plunged about 5 percent yesterday, after the company warned that its tobacco shipments in the United States would drop sharply in the fourth quarter because of heightened competition from low-priced cigarettes.
The forecast set off a flurry of selling on Wall Street as investors grew worried about a slowdown in growth at the critically important domestic tobacco unit, which accounted for about half of Philip Morris's earnings last year. 
 The shift to cheaper cigarettes heightens the pressure on Philip Morris to shore up its flagging full-priced brands. The company has been frantically changing ad campaigns and introducing new lengths and varieties of Marlboros and Benson & Hedges, in efforts to keep consumers tantalized by more expensive brands.
Philip Morris stock fell $4.25, to $79.75, in New York Stock Exchange trading.
 
Recession-Weary Smokers
 "I am concerned about this development," said Lawrence Adelman, a Dean Witter Reynolds analyst, who removed Philip Morris from his recommended list yesterday, and like several other analysts, cut earnings estimates for the company. Philip Morris said fourth-quarter tobacco shipment in the United States would be 10 percent below the level a year earlier.
The unexpected jump in demand for cheap cigarettes could not have come at a worse time for Philip Morris and appears to have caught the company off guard. Flush with new products this year, the company aggressively pushed more cigarettes through its system in an effort to avoid being out of stock at retail stores. At the same time, however, recession-weary smokers switched to lower-priced brands at a record pace, leaving warehouse filled to the brim with cigarettes.
There is a month of inventory in stores and warehouses, about a week more than the desired level. As a result, for the rest of the year the company will ship fewer cigarettes to let inventories fall back.
"They had to pay the piper at some point," said John M. McMillin, an analyst with Prudential Securities.
The weak economy was blamed for the shift to cheaper cigarettes. "George Bush and the Marlboro Man are facing the same problem," said David A. Goldman, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Company "It's the feeling that things are not looking so good" in the economy, he said.
The least expensive pack of generic cigarettes, in a black and white package, is 30 percent less than a pack of Marlboros, which can sell for as much as $2.60. Some other budget cigarettes are 20 percent less.
Analysts estimate that discount cigarettes will account for 30 percent of the 503 billion cigarettes that are expected to be sold in the United States this year. There are two tiers of discount cigarettes. Sales of the cheapest cigarettes, the generics, nearly doubled this year, and they now account for 13 percent of the market. Mr. Goldman predicts that discount cigarettes will account for 40 percent of the market in two years.
The cigarette industry and Philip Morris have been battling a steady decline in smoking in the United States for years. But with full-priced Marlboro's accounting for the majority of its cigarette business, "Philip Morris feels the pressure more than most" tobacco companies, said Mr. Goldman.
The company said that for the first nine months of the year, premium brand sales fell by 16 percent in the industry. Philip Morris premium sales declined by 4 percent in that period. In the same period, discount sale increased by 18 percent, while Philip Morris's sales of inexpensive brands grew only 3 percent.
While Philip Morris has some low-priced brands, it strongly favors its more profitable brands.
 
 
Earnings Report
 The gloomy projection was included in an otherwise strong third-quarter earnings report for the tobacco, beer and food giant. Profit increased 16.4 percent and per-share earnings jumped 20 percent.
Michael A. Miles, chairman and chief executive of Philip Morris, said the company was pleased with the third-quarter performance, despite the "recent growth of discount products in several of our categories."
For the quarter, net income increased 18 percent to $1.3 billion from $1.1 billion in the third quarter a year earlier. Per-share earnings rose to $1.44 from $1.20.
Revenue advanced 9 percent, to $15 billion from $13.8 billion.
For the quarter, operating income from worldwide tobacco was up 11.5 percent. Volume increased 4 percent.
In the United States, operating income for tobacco rose 8.5 percent, while shipments fell five-tenths of 1 percent.
The Kraft General Foods unit continued to show improvement, with worldwide income growing by 16.6 percent. In the United States, food earnings climbed 9.7 percent. Volume increased in coffee, cheese, beverages and desserts, but was off in turkeys and frozen food.
The cold summer hurt Miller Brewing Company. Operating income was off by 41.5 percent, and shipments fell by nearly 9 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Following Philip Morris" shows Philip Morris' net income and monthly stock price in 1991 and 1992. (Sources: Datastream; Bloomberg Business News) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (96%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC ALTRIA GROUP INC (96%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); BENSON & HEDGES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING; PRICES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; COMPANY REPORTS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); RETAILERS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN DAVID AGOLDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



525 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

METRO DIGEST
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
CARDINAL FALLS ILL AT CHARITY DINNER
John Cardinal O'Connor, complaining of nausea and lightheadedness, was taken by ambulance last night from the archdiocese's annual Alfred E. Smith Memorial Dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria to St. Vincent's Hospital. The Cardinal, who never lost consciousness, was alert and listed in stable condition, but the cause of his condition was not immediately known, said Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the archdiocese. B3.
 
4 OFFICERS DISCIPLINED
Four New York City police officers have been placed on modified duty and are expected to be charged with violating departmental regulations by failing to volunteer what they knew about the killing of two men -- one of them an off-duty Housing Authority police officer -- in Bayville, Queens, high-ranking police officials said yesterday. B3.
 

CHARGES FILED IN BEATING IN PATROL CAR
Two New York City police officers were charged with beating a suspect in a patrol car and in a Bronx station house in January following his arrest on a gun possession charge. B3.
 
POLICE DEBATE, ROUND 3
For the third time, the emotion and rancor surrounding plans for an all-civilian board to review charges of police misconduct spilled out at a City Council hearing, as dozens of speakers ranging from union leaders to the comedian Jackie Mason debated the issue. B3.
 
IMPROVING COMMUNICATIONS
Saying he is frustrated that many people do not know enough about his administration's accomplishments, Mayor David N. Dinkins created a new deputy mayor's post and named a political consultant to fill it. B3.
 
REGION
 
AFTER DEBATE AN APOLOGY
Hours after Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and State Attorney General Robert Abrams sparred sharply over each other's ethics and tactics in the first debate of their Senate campaign, Mr. Abrams formally apologized last night for calling the Senator a "fascist" at a campaign rally last weekend. A1.
Ethical accusations carry different weights. B5.
D'Amato held $3 million lead over Abrams. B5.
Excerpts from Senate candidates' debate. B5.
 
GOODWILL GAMES TO ARRIVE IN 1998
New York City, New Jersey and Long Island were awarded the 1998 Goodwill Games last night, a major plum for the New York City Sports Commission and its eager young director, Matt Scheckner, who estimates the extravaganza could pump as much as $500 million into the city's economy. A1.
 
FATAL END TO CHILD SUPPORT CASE
A truck driver who claimed that child support payments had "ruined" his life walked into a county office building in Watkins Glen, N.Y., and fatally shot four women who worked tracking down and collecting support money. Icily calm when trapped by law-enforcement officers in a stairwell, he shot himself in the head with a 9-millimeter semiautomatic pistol. A1.
 
Opening arguments in Glen Ridge sexual assault case. B4.
 
A.T.&T. mascot "Golden Boy" moves to Basking Ridge, N.J. B4.
 
Our Towns by Andrew Malcolm B4

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Inflation in the Region" shows the month-to-month change in consumer prices in New York City and 21 nearby countries from '90- Sept. '92. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLICE FORCES (91%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ETHICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); CITIES (79%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RELIGION (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); ARRESTS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); SPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: CARDINAL JOHN O'CONNOR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



526 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
I.B.M. reported a $2.8 billion quarterly loss, shocking Wall Street and sending its shares skidding $5.125 to $72.875 -- their lowest level in a decade. It had a huge charge for 20,000 workers who retired early, and lower results otherwise. [Page D1.]
Apple, empowered by its Powerbook notebook computers, reported a 20 percent rise in quarterly earnings. [D1.] 
 Philip Morris shares plunged $4.25, to $79.75, even though quarterly profits increased 16.4 percent. The reason: Once-puny generics are landing punches on the Marlboro man. [D1.]
After Dark is topping the software charts, as office workers find its flying toasters and brilliantly colored tropical fish -- intended as screen savers -- relieve ennui. [D1.]
J.P. Morgan's profits rose 7 percent to $400 million, but First Chicago had a loss of $365.1 million, resulting from its plans to sell $2 billion of commercial real estate loans. [D5.]
Three big paper and forest products companies had losses. Georgia-Pacific, Champion International, and Bowater cited low prices, weak demand and excess capacity. [D4.]
American Airlines said it might lay off 1,000 managers to cut its payroll by 10 percent. It expects a large quarterly loss. [D4.]
Moscow has chosen the Carlson Companies of Minneapolis to upgrade its hotels, helping it overcome an image as a tourist center with first-rate sights but second-rate accommodations. [D4.]
The Oakland Tribune was sold to the Alameda Newspaper Group. The nation's only big black-owned daily had losses. [D2.]
The sale of Adidas was cancelled. Pentland P.L.C. planned to buy the German sports shoe company for $428.3 million. [D4.]
Two top military contractors reported higher earnings. General Dynamics had a 69 percent rise and Lockheed 6 percent. [D5.]
Merck and American Home Products reported robust earnings gains, but Upjohn said profits fell slightly. [D5.]
 
International
European leaders' one-day summit meeting in Birmingham today is as likely to highlight national divisions over farm trade and monetary union, as the political unity it was called to salvage. [D1.]
 
The Economy
Consumer prices rose a tiny 0.2 percent in September, while average weekly earnings fell 1.3 percent. Businesses continued to accumulate unwanted inventories in August, but the number of Americans filing first-time claims for jobless benefits fell in early October. [D2.]
The Government filed insider-trading charges in a case it said was notable for the number of companies involved. Cited were: a former paralegal at the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, a friend of his, and the friend's father, a former I.B.M. executive. [D2.]
The S.E.C. approved new regulations requiring publicly traded companies to be more forthcoming about executive pay and easing restrictions on shareholders' challenging directors. [D8.]
 
Markets
The Dow industrials lost 20.80 points to close at 3,174.68, on the I.B.M. and Philip Morris news, but the broader market rose. [D8.] The bond market declined, despite morning gains. [D14.]
The dollar fell as the economic reports kept traders pessimistic. [D15.] Heating oil and natural gas futures prices rose sharply amid speculation that this winter would be quite cold. [D15.]
 
Today's Columns
Is the sound of silence golden? Noise Cancellation Technologies insider sold 300,000 shares, but only so they could buy warrants for more stock. Wall Street applauded. Market Place. [D8.]
Coca-Cola's reliance on a California talent agency, as well as its New York ad agency is fascinating other advertisers and agencies. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%); GD (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (82%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (80%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (80%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (55%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (55%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (53%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CARLSON COS INC (82%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (80%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (55%); CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); PFIZER INC (53%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (53%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (76%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (75%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); PAPER MFG (72%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (67%); PAPER & PACKAGING (67%); FOOTWEAR (67%); SECURITIES LAW (64%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (63%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (62%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%); PARALEGALS (60%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (60%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (53%); MONETARY UNIONS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



527 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 15769 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Transcript of 2d TV Debate Between Bush, Clinton and Perot

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the Presidential debate in Richmond last night between President Bush, Gov. Bill Clinton and Ross Perot, as transcribed by The New York Times:
 
Fair Trade
 Q: Tonight's program is unlike any other Presidential debate in history -- we're making history now and it's pretty exciting. An independent polling firm has selected an audience of 209 uncommitted voters from this area. The candidates will be asked questions by these voters on a topic of their choosing -- anything they want to ask about. My job as moderator is to, you know, take care of the questioning, ask questions myself if I think there needs to be continuity and balance, and sometimes I might ask the candidates to respond to what another candidate may have said. 
 Now the format has been agreed to by representatives of both the Republican and Democratic campaigns. And there is no subject matter that is restricted -- anything goes, we can ask anything.
After the debate, the candidates will have an opportunity to make a closing statement. So, President Bush, I think you said it earlier, let's get it on.
BUSH: Let's go.
Q: And I think the first question is over here.
Q: Yes, I'd like to direct my question to Mr. Perot. What will you do as President to open foreign markets to fair competition from American business, and to stop unfair competition here at home from foreign countries so that we can bring jobs back to the United States.
PEROT: That's right at the top of my agenda. We've shipped millions of jobs overseas and we have a strange situation because we have a process in Washington where after you've served for a while you cash in and become a foreign lobbyist, make $30,000 a month; then take a leave, work on Presidential campaigns, make sure you got good contacts, and then go back out. Now if you just want to get down to brass tacks, the first thing you ought to do is get all these folks who've got these one-way trade agreements that we've negotiated over the years and say, "Fellows, we'll take the same deal we gave you." And they'll gridlock right at that point because, for example, we've got international competitors who simply could not unload their cars off the ships if they had to comply -- you see, if it was a two-way street -- just couldn't do it. We have got to stop sending jobs overseas.
To those of you in the audience who are business people, pretty simple: If you're paying $12, $13, $14 an hour for factory workers and you can move your factory South of the border, pay a dollar an hour for labor, hire young -- let's assume you've been in business for a long time and you've got a mature work force -- pay a dollar an hour for your labor, have no health care -- that's the most expensive single element in making a car -- have no environmental controls, no pollution controls and no retirement, and you don't care about anything but making money, there will be a giant sucking sound going south.
So we -- if the people send me to Washington the first thing I'll do is study that 2,000-page agreement and make sure it's a two-way street. One last part here -- I decided i was dumb and didn't understand it so I called the Who's Who of the folks who've been around it and I said, "Why won't everybody go South?" They say, "It'd be disruptive." I said, "For how long?" I finally got them up from 12 to 15 years. And I said, "well, how does it stop being disruptive?" And that is when their jobs come up from a dollar an hour to six dollars an hour, and ours go down to six dollars an hour, and then it's leveled again. But in the meantime, you've wrecked the country with these kinds of deals. We've got to cut it out.
Q: Thank you Mr. Perot. I see that the President has stood up so he must have something to say about this.
BUSH: Well, Carole, the thing that saved us in this global economic slowdown is in our exports. And what I'm trying to do is increase our exports. And if, indeed, all the jobs were going to move South because of lower wages, there are lower wages now and they haven't done that. And so I have just negotiated with the President of Mexico; the North American Free Trade Agreement; and the Prime Minister of Canada, I might add, and I'm -- I want to have more of these free trade agreements. Because export jobs are increasing far faster than any jobs that may have moved overseas; that's a scare tactic because it's not that many. But anyone that's here, we want to have more jobs here and the way to do that is to increase our exports.
Some believe in protection. I don't. I believe in free and fair trade and that's the thing that saved us, and so I will keep on as President trying to get a successful conclusion to the GATT round, the big Uruguay round of trade which will really open up markets for our -- for our agriculture particularly -- I want to continue work after we get this Nafta agreement ratified this coming year; I want to get one with Eastern Europe. I want to get one with Chile and free and fair trade is the answer, now protection. And as I say we've had tough economic times and it's exports that have saved us. Exports that have built.
Q: Governor Clinton.
CLINTON: I'd like to answer the question because I've actually been a governor for 12 years so. I've known a lot of people who've lost their jobs because of jobs moving overseas and I know a lot of people whose plants have been strengthened by increasing exports. The trick is to expand our export base and to expand trade on terms that are fair to us. It is true that our exports to Mexico for example have gone up and our trade deficit's gone down. It's also true that just today a record-high trade deficit was announced with Japan. So what is the answer?
Let me just mention three things very quickly.
No. 1, make sure that other countries are as open to our markets as our markets are to them. And if they're not, have measures on the books that don't take forever and a day to implement.
No. 2, change the tax code. There are more deductions in the tax code for shutting plants down and moving overseas than there are for modernizing plant and equipment here. Our competitors don't do that. Emphasize and subsidize modernizing plant and equipment here, not moving plants overseas.
No. 3, stop the Federal Government's program that now gives low-interest loans and job training funds to companies that will actually shut down and move to other countries but we won't do the same thing for plants that stay here. So more trade, but on fairer terms and favor investment in America.
Q: Thank you. I think we have a question over here.
Q: This is for Governor Clinton. In the real world, that is outside of Washington, D.C., compensation and achievement are based on goals defined and achieved. The deficit is my -- my question is about the deficit. Would you define in specific dollar goals how much you would reduce the deficit in each of the four years of a Clinton Administration and then enter into a legally binding contract with the American people that if you did not achieve those goals, that you would not seek a second term? Answer yes or no and then comment on your answer, please.
CLINTON: No, and here's why. And I'll tell you exactly why. Because the deficit now has been building up for 12 years. I'll tell you exactly what I think can be done. I think we can bring it down by 50 percent in four years and grow the economy. Now, I could get rid of it in four years in theory on the books now, but to do it, you'd have to raise taxes too much and cut benefits too much to people who need them. And it would even make the economy worse.
Mr. Perot will tell you, for example, that the expert he hired to analyze his plan said that it will bring the deficit down in five years, but it will make unemployment bad for four more years. So my view is, sir, you have to increase investment, grow the economy and reduce the deficit by controlling health care costs, prudent reductions in defense, cuts in domestic programs and asking the wealthiest Americans and foreign corporations to pay their fair share of taxes and investing in growing this economy.
I asked everybody to look at my economic ideas and nine Nobel Prize winners and over 500 economists and hundreds of business people, including a lot of Republicans, said this is the way you got to go. If you don't grow the economy you can't get it done. But I can't foresee all the things that will happen and I don't think a President should be judged solely on the deficit. Let me also say we're having an election today. You'll have a shot at me in four years and you can vote me right out if you think I've done a lousy job. And I would welcome you to do that.
Q: Mr. President.
BUSH: Well, I, I got to -- I'm a little confused here because I don't see how you can grow the deficit down by raising people's taxes. You see, I don't think the American people are taxed too little. I think they're taxed too much. I went for one tax increase. And when I make a mistake I admit it. Say that wasn't the right thing to do.
Governor Clinton's program wants to tax more and spend more. $150 billion in new taxes. Spend another 220. I don't believe that's the way to do it.
Here's some things that'll help. Give us a balanced budget amendment. He always talks about Arkansas having a balanced budget and they do. But he has a balanced budget amendment -- have to do it. I'd like the Government to have that. And I think it would discipline not only the Congress, which needs it, but also the Executive Branch. I'd like to have what 43 governors have -- the line item veto, so if the Congress can't cut we've got a reckless spending Congress -- let the President have a shot at it by wiping out things that are pork barrel or something of that nature.
I'd like to -- I proposed another one. Some sophisticates think it may be a little gimmicky. I think it's good. It's a check-off. It says to you as a taxpayer -- say you're going to pay a tax of a thousand bucks or something. You can check 10 percent of that, if you want to, in one box and that 10 percent, $100 -- or if you're paying 10,000, or whatever it is, a thousand dollars -- check it off and make the Government -- make it lower the deficit by that amount. And if the Congress won't do it -- if they can't get together and negotiate how to do that -- then you'd have a sequester across the board. You'd exempt Social Security -- I don't want to tax or touch Social Security. I'm the President that said "Hey, don't mess with Social Security." And we haven't.
So I believe we need to control the growth of mandatory spending -- back to this gentleman's question. That's the main growing thing in the budget. The whole -- the program that the President -- two-thirds of the budget I, as President, never get to look at; never get to touch. We've got to control that growth to inflation and population increase. But not raise taxes on the American people now. I just don't believe that would stimulate any kind of growth at all.
Q: How about you, Mr. Perot?
PEROT: Well, we're $4 trillion in debt. We're going into debt an additional $1 billion -- a little more than a billion dollars every working day of the year.
Now the thing I love about it -- I'm just a businessman. I was down in Texas taking care of business, tending to my family. This situation got so bad that I decided I'd better get into it. The American people asked me to get into it.
But I just find it fascinating that while we sit here tonight, we will go into debt an additional $50 billion -- $50 million dollars in an hour and a half.
Now, it's not the Republicans fault, of course. And it's not the Democrats' fault. And what I'm looking for is who did it? Now, they're the two folks involved, so maybe if you put them together, they did it.
Now, the facts are we have to fix it. We are leaving -- I'm here tonight for these young people up there in the balcony from this college. When I was a young man when I got out of the Navy I had multiple job offers. Young people with high grades can't get a job.
People -- the 18- to 24-year-old high school graduates 10 years ago were making more than they are now. In other words, we were down to 18 percent of them were making -- ah, of the 18- to 24-year-olds were making less than $12,000. Now that's up to 40 percent. And what's happened in the meantime, the dollar's gone through the floor.
Now whose fault is that. Not the Democrats, not the Republicans. Somewhere out there there's an extraterrestrial that's doing this to us, I guess. And everybody says they take responsibility. Somebody somewhere has to take responsibility for this.
Put it to you bluntly, American people. If you want me to be your President, we're going to face our problems, we'll deal with the problems, we'll solve our problems. We'll pay down our debt. We'll pass on the American dream to our children, and I will not leave our children a situation that they have today.
When I was a boy it took two generations to double the standard of living. Today, it will take 12 generations. Our children will not see the American dream because of this debt that somebody somewhere dropped on us.
Q: You're all wonderful speakers and I know you have lots more to add, but I've talked to this audience and they have lots of questions on other topics. Can we move to another topic, please?
We have one up here, I think.
 
Negative Campaigns
 Q: Yes, I'd like to address all the candidates with this question. The amount of time the candidates have spent on this campaign trashing their opponents character and their programs is depressingly large. Why can't your discussions and proposals reflect the genuine complexity and the difficulty of the issues to try to build a consensus around the best aspects of all proposals?
Q: Who wants to take that one? Mr. Perot, you have an answer for everything, don't you? Go right ahead sir.
PEROT: No, no I don't have an answer for everything.
Q: Why?
PEROT: As you all know, I've been buying 30 minutes segments to talk about issues. And tomorrow night, on NBC, from 10:30 to 11 Eastern we're going to talk about how you pay the debt down, so we're going to come right down to that one. See, we'll be on again Saturday night, 8 to 9 o'clock on ABC, so ----
[All talking together.]
PEROT: I couldn't agree with you more. Couldn't agree with you more. And I have said again and again and again, let's get off of this; let's get off personalities and let's talk about jobs, health care, crime, the things that concern the American people. I'm spending my money, not Pac money, not foreign money, my money, to take this message to the people.
Q: Thank you, Mr. Perot. So that seems directed; he would say it's you gentlemen who have been doing that. Mr. Clinton, Governor Clinton, how do you -- or President Bush, how would you like to respond?
BUSH: Well, in the first place, I believe that character is a part of being President. I think you have to look at it. I think that has to be a part of -- of a candidate for President, or being President.
In terms of programs, I've submitted, what, four different budgets to the United States Congress? In great detail, they're so heavy they'd give you, you know, a broken back. And everything in there says what I am for. Now I've come out with a new agenda for America's renewal, a plan that I believe really will help stimulate the growth of this economy. My record on world affairs is pretty well known because I've been President for four years. So I feel I've been talking issues.
You know, nobody likes -- likes "Who shot John?" but I think the first negative campaign run in this election was by Governor Clinton. And I'm not going to sit there and be a punching bag. I'm going to stand up and say, "Hey, listen, here's my side of it." But character is an important part of the equation.
The other night, Governor Clinton raised -- I don't know if you saw the debate the other night? Suffered through that? Well, he raised the question of my father; it was a good line, well rehearsed and well delivered. But he raised the question of my father and said, "Well, your father, Prescott Bush, was against McCarthy. You should be ashamed of yourself. McCarthyism." I remember something my dad told me. I was 18 years old, going to Penn Station to go into the Navy and he said, "Write your mother" -- which I faithfully did -- he said, "Serve your country" -- my father was an honor, duty and country man -- and he said, "Tell the truth." And I've tried to do that in public life, all through it. And that says something about character.
My argument with Governor Clinton -- you can call it mud wrestling but I think it's fair to put in focus -- is I am deeply troubled by someone who demonstrates and organizes demonstration in a foreign land when his country's at war. Probably a lot of kids here disagree with me, but that's what I feel. That's what I feel passionately about. I'm thinking of Ross Perot's running mate sitting in the jail; how would he feel about it? But maybe that's generational, I don't know.
But the big argument I have with the Governor on this is this taking different positions on different issues, trying to be one thing to one person here that's opposing the Nafta agreement and then for it -- what we call waffling. And I do think that you can't turn the White House into the Waffle House, you've got to say what you're for and you've got to ----
Q: Mr. President, I'm getting time cues and, with all due respect, I'm sorry.
BUSH: Excuse me, I don't want to -- I don't want to, no go ahead Carole.
Q: Governor Clinton.
BUSH: I get wound up because I feel strongly ----
Q: Yes you do.
CLINTON: Let me say, first of all, to you that I believe so strongly in the question you ask that I suggested this format tonight. I started doing these formats a year ago in New Hampshire. And I found that we had huge crowds because all I did was let people ask questions and I tried to give very specific answers. I also had a program starting last year. I've been disturbed by the tone and the tenor of this campaign. Thank goodness the networks have a fact check so I don't have to just go blue in the face anymore. Mr. Bush said once again tonight I was going to have a $150 billion tax increase. When Mr. Quayle said that all the networks said, "That's not true. He's got over $100 billion of tax cuts and incentives." So I'm not going to take up your time tonight.
But let me just say this. We'll have a debate in four days and we can talk about this character thing again. But The Washington Post ran a long editorial today saying they couldn't believe Mr. Bush was making character an issue and they said he was the greatest quote political chameleon for changing his positions of all times. Now I don't want to get into it ----
BUSH: Please don't judge me by The Washington Post.
CLINTON: Let's don't -- let's don't -- you don't have to believe that. I -- here's my point. I'm not interested in his character. I want to change the character of the Presidency. And I'm interested in what we can trust him to do and what you can trust me to do and what you can trust Mr. Perot to do for the next four years. So I think you're right and I hope the rest of the night belongs to you.
Q: May I, I talked to this audience before you gentlemen came and I asked them about how they felt about the tenor of the campaign. Would you like to let them know what you thought about that when I said are you pleased with how the campaign's been going?
Who wants to say why you don't like the way the campaign is going?
We have a gentleman back here.
Focus on Needs:
Q: If I may, and forgive the notes here, but I'm shy on camera. The focus of my work as domestic mediator is meeting the needs of the children that I work with by way of their parents, and not the wants of their parents. And I ask the three of you, how can we as symbolically the children of the future President, expect the two of you, the three of you, to meet our needs: the needs in housing and, and, and in crime and, you name it, as opposed to the wants of your political spin doctrism, and your political parties?
Q: So your question is ----
Q: Can we focus on the issues and not the personalities and the mud? I think there is, there is a need, if we can take a poll here, with the folks from Gallup perhaps, I think there is a real need here to focus at this point on needs.
Q: How do you respond? How do you gentlemen respond to ----
PEROT: I agree with him.
Q: President Bush?
BUSH: Let's do it. Let's talk about programs for children.
Q: One other thing?
BUSH: Yes?
Q: Could we cross our hearts; it sounds silly here, but could we make a commitment? You know, we're not under oath at this point, but could you make a commitment to the citizens of the United States to meet our needs, and we have many, and not yours. Again, I have to repeat that, it's a real need, I think, that we all have.
BUSH: It depends on how you define it; I mean I -- I think, in general, let's talk about these -- let's talk about these issues; let's talk about the programs, but in the Presidency a lot goes into it. Caring is -- goes into it; that's not particularly specific; strength goes into it, that's not specific; standing up against aggression, that's not specific in terms of a program. This is what a President has to do. So I, in principle, I'll take your point and think we ought to discuss child care, or whatever else it is.
Q: And you two?
CLINTON: Ross had his hand up.
Q: Yes, Ross.
PEROT: No hedges, no ifs, ands and buts. I'll take the pledge. Because I know the American people want to talk about issues and not tabloid journalism. So I'll take the pledge and we'll stay on the issues.
Now, just for the record, I don't have any spin doctors. I don't have any speech writers. Probably shows. I make those charts you see on television.
But you don't have to wonder if it's me talking. What you see is what you get. And if you don't like it you got two other choices, right?
CLINTON: Now wait a minute. I want to say just one thing, now, Ross, in fairness. The ideas I express are mine. I've worked on these things for 12 years and I'm the only person up here who hasn't been part of Washington in any way for the last 20 years. So I don't want the implication to be that somehow everything we say is just cooked up and put in our head by somebody else. I worked 12 years very hard as a governor on the real problems of real people. I'm just as sick as you are by having to wake up and figure out how to defend myself every day.
PEROT: I got --
CLINTON: I never thought I'd ever be involved in anything like this.
PEROT: May I finish?
Q: Yes you may finish.
PEROT: Very briefly?
Q: Yes. Very briefly.
PEROT: I don't have any foreign money in my campaign. I don't have any foreign lobbyist on leave in my campaign. I don't have any PAC money in my campaign. I got five and a half hard-working people who put me on the ballot. And I belong to them.
Q: O.K.
PEROT: And they want or are interested in what you're interested in. I take the pledge -- I've already taken the pledge on cutting the deficit in half. I never got to say that. It's a great young group. Lead or leave. College students. Young people who don't want us to spend their money. I took the pledge we'd cut it out.
Q: Thank you. We have a question here.
 
Nation's Infrastructure
 Q: Yes, I would like to get a response from all three gentlemen, and the question is: What are your plans to improve the physical infrastructure of our nation, which includes the water system, the sewer system, our transportation systems, etc. Thank you.
Q: The cities, who's going to fix the cities and how?
BUSH: Be glad to take a shot at it.
Q: Please.
BUSH: I'm not sure that -- and I can understand if you haven't seen this because there's been a lot of hue and cry -- we passed, this year, the most farthest-looking transportation bill in the history of this country, since Eisenhower started the interstate highways, $150 billion for improving the infrastructure. That happened when I was President and so I'm very proud of the way that came about and I think it's a very, very good beginning. Like Mr. Perot, I'm concerned about the deficits, and $150 billion is a lot of money but it's awful hard to say we're going to go out and spend more money when we're trying to get the deficit down. But I would cite that as a major accomplishment.
We hear all the negatives. When you're President you expect this, everybody's running against the incumbent, they can do better, everyone knows that. But here's something that we can take great pride in because it really does get to what you're talking about. Our home initiative, our home ownership initiative -- hope it'll pass the Congress -- is a good start for having people own their own homes instead of living in these deadly tenements. Our enterprise zones that we hear a lot of lip service about in Congress would bring jobs into the inner city. There's a good program and I need the help of everybody across this country to get it passed in a substantial way by the Congress.
When we went out to South Central in Los Angeles -- some of you may remember the riots there -- I went out there, I went to a boys club and every one of them -- the boys club leaders, the ministers, all of them were saying, "Pass enterprise zones." We go back to Washington and it's very difficult to get it through the Congress. But there's going to be a new Congress. No one likes gridlock, there's going to be a new Congress because the old one -- I don't want to get this man mad at me but there was a Post Office scandal and a banking scandal. You're going to have a lot of new members of Congress and then you can sit down and say, "Help me do what we should for the cities, help me pass these programs."
Q: Mr. President, aren't you threatening to veto the bill, the Urban Aid Bill that included enterprise zones?
BUSH: Sure, but the problem is you get so many things included in a great big bill that you have to look at the overall good. That's the problem with our system; if you had a line-item veto you could knock out the pork, you could knock out the tax increases, and you could do what the people want and that is create enterprise zones.
Q: Governor Clinton, you're chomping at the bit.
CLINTON: That bill pays for these urban enterprise zones by asking the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more, and that's why you want to veto it. Just like you vetoed an earlier bill this year; this is not mud-slinging, this is fact-slinging. A bill early this year; this is facts, that would have given investment tax credits and other incentives to reinvest in our cities, our country, but it asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more.
Mr. Perot wants to do the same thing. I agree with him. I mean, we agree with that. Let me tell you specifically what my plan does. My plan would dedicate $20 billion a year in each of the next four years for investment and new transportation, communications, environmental clean-up, and new technologies for the 21st century and we would target it especially in areas that have been either depressed or which have lost a lot of defense-related jobs. There are 200,000 people in California, for example, who've lost their defense-related jobs. They ought to be engaged in making high-speed rail; they ought to be engaged in breaking ground in other technologies, doing waste recycling, clean water technology, and things of that kind.
We can create millions of jobs in these new technologies more than we're going to lose in defense if we target it, but we're investing a much smaller percentage of our income in the things you just asked about than all of our major competitors and our wealth growth is going down as a result of this, making the country poorer, which is why I answered the gentleman the way I did before. We have to both bring down the deficit and get our economy going through these kinds of investments in order to get the kind of wealth and jobs and incomes we need in America.
Q: Mr. Perot, what about your plans for the cities? You want to tackle the economy and the deficit first ----
PEROT: First, you've got to have money to pay for these things. So, you've got to create jobs. There are all kinds of ways to create jobs in the inner city.
Now, I'm not a politician, but I think I could go to Washington in a week and get everybody holding hands and get this bill signed. Because I talked to the Democratic leaders and they want it; I talked to Republican leaders and they want it. But since they are bred from childhood to fight with one another rather than get results -- you know, I would be glad to drop out and spend a little time and see if we couldn't build some bridges.
Now, results is what count. The President can't order Congress around. Congress can't order the President around. That's not bad for a guy that's never been there, right? But you have to work together.
Now, I have talked to the chairmen of the committees that want this. They're Democrats. The President wants, but we can't get it, because we sit here in gridlock because it's a campaign year.
We didn't fund a lot of other things this year, like the savings and loan mess. That's another story we're getting to pay a big price right after the election.
The facts are though -- the facts are the American people are hurting. These people are hurting in the inner cities. We're shipping the low-paying jobs -- quote "low-paying jobs" overseas. What are low-paying jobs? Textiles, shoes, things like that that we say are yesterday's industries. They're tomorrow's industries in the inner cities.
Let me say in my case, if I'm out of work, I'll cut grass tomorrow to take care of my family. I'll be happy to make shoes, I'll be happy to make clothing, I'll make sausage. You just give me a job. Put those jobs in the inner cities instead of doing diplomatic deals and shipping them to China where prison labor does the work.
 
Working Together
 Q: Mr. Perot, everybody thought you won the first debate, because you were plain-speaking and you made it sound oh so simple: We'll just do it. What makes you think that you're going to be able to get the Democrats and Republicans together any better than these guys?
PEROT: If you asked me if I could fly a fighter plane or launch -- or be an astronaut, I can't. I spent my life creating jobs -- it's something I know how to do. And, very simply in the inner city they're starved.
See, small business is the way to jump-start the inner city, not ----
Q: Are you answering my question?
PEROT:You want jobs in the inner city? Do you want jobs in the inner city, is that your question?
Q: No, I want you to tell me how you're going to be able to get the Republicans and Democrats in Congress ----
PEROT: Oh, I'm sorry.
Q: ---- to work together better than these two gentlemen.
PEROT: Well, I've listened to both sides and if they would talk to one another instead of throwing rocks, I think we could get a lot done. And among other things, I would say, O.K., over here in this Senate committee, to the chairman who is anxious to get this bill passed -- the President is anxious -- I'd say, rather than just yelling at one another, why don't we find out where we're apart, try to get together, get the bill passed and give the people the benefits and not play party politics right now?
And I think the press would follow that so closely that probably they would get it done. That's the way I would do it. I doubt if they'll give me the chance but I will drop everything and go work on it.
 
Gun Control
 Q: O.K. I have a question here. My question was originally for Governor Clinton but I think I would welcome a response from all three candidates. As you are aware, crime is rampant in our cities. And in the Richmond area, and I'm sure it's happening elsewhere, 12 year olds are carrying guns to school. And I'm sure when our Founding Fathers wrote the Constitution they did not mean for the right to bear arms to apply to 12-year-olds. So I'm asking: Where do you stand on gun control and what do you plan to do about it?
Q: Governor Clinton.
CLINTON: I support the right to keep and bear arms. I live in a state where over half the adults have hunting or fishing licenses or both. But I believe we have to have some way of checking handguns before they're sold -- to check the criminal history, the mental health history and the age of people who are buying them. Therefore I support the Brady bill, which would impose a national waiting period unless and until a state did what only Virginia has done now which is to automate its records. Once you automate your records then you don't have to have a waiting period. But at least you can check. I also think we should have, frankly, restrictions on assault weapons whose only purpose it to kill. We need to give the police a fighting chance in our urban areas where the gangs are building up.
The third thing I would say doesn't bear directly on gun control but it's very important. We need more police on the street. There is a crime bill which would put more police on the street which was killed for this session by a filibuster in the Senate, mostly by Republican Senators. And I think it's a shame it didn't pass. I think it should be made the law, but it had the Brady bill in it -- the waiting period.
I also believe that we should offer college scholarships to people who will agree to work them off as police officers and I think as we reduce our military forces. We should let people earn military retirement by coming out and working as police officers. There -- 30 years ago there were three police officers on the street for every crime. Today there are three crimes for every police officer. In the communities which have had real success putting police officers near schools where kids carry weapons, to get the weapons out of the schools, or on the same blocks, you've seen crime go down. In Houston, there's been a 15 percent drop in the crime rate in the last year because of the work the mayor did there in increasing the police force. So I know it can work. I've seen it happen.
Q: Thank you. President Bush.
BUSH: I think you put your finger on a major problem. I talk about strengthening the American family and it's very hard to strengthen the family if people are scared to walk down to the corner store and you know, send their kid down to get a loaf of bread, it's very hard. I have been fighting for very strong anti-crime legislation. Habeus corpus reform so you don't have these endless appeals, so when somebody gets sentenced, hey, this is for real. I've been fighting for changes in the exclusionary rule so if an honest cop stops somebody and makes a technical mistake, the criminal doesn't -- doesn't go away. I'll probably get into a fight in this room with some, but I happen to think that we need stronger death penalties for those that kill police officers. Virginia's on the lead in this, as Governor Clinton properly said, on this identification system for firearms. I am not for national registration of firearms.
Some of the states that have the toughest anti-gun laws have the highest levels of crime. I am for the right, as the Governor says, I'm a sportsman and I don't think you ought to eliminate all kinds of weapons. But my -- I was not for the bill that he was talking about because it was not tough enough on the criminal. I've very pleased that the fraternal order of police in Little Rock, Ark., endorsed me because I think they see I'm trying to strengthen the anti-crime legislation. We've got more money going out for local police than -- than any previous Administration.
So, we've got to get it under control and there is one last thing -- point I'd make. Drugs. We have got to win our national strategy against drugs, the fight against drugs. And we're making some progress. Doing a little better on interdiction, we're not doing as well amongst the -- amongst the -- the people that get to be habitual drug users.
The good news is, and I think it's true in Richmond, teen-age use is down of cocaine substantially, 60 percent in the last couple of years. So we're making progress but until we get that one done, we're not going to solve the neighborhood crime problem.
Q: Mr. Perot, there are young black males in America dying at unprecedented rates.
PEROT: I'd just like to comment on this.
Q: Yes, I'm getting to ----
PEROT: Oh, you're going to elaborate, O.K. Excuse me.
Q: ---- the fact that homicide is the leading cause of death among young black males 15 to 24 years old. What are you going to do to get the guns off the street?
PEROT: On any program, and this includes crime, you'll find we have all kinds of great plans lying around that never get enacted into law and implemented. I don't care what it is -- competitiveness, health care, crime, you name it -- the Brady Bill, I agree that it's a tentative step in the right direction but it won't fix it. So why pass a law that won't fix it? Now, what it really boils down to is can you live -- we have become so preoccupied with the rights of the criminal that we've forgotten the rights of the innocent. And in our country we have evolved to a point where we've put millions of innocent people in jail because you go to the poor neighborhoods and they put bars on their windows and bars on their doors and put themselves in jail to protect the things that they're acquired legitimately. That's where we are.
We have got to become more concerned about people who play by the rules and get the balance we require. This is going to take first building a consensus in grass-roots America; right from the bottom up the American people have got to say they want it. And at that point, we can pick from a variety of plans and develop new plans, and the way you get things done is bury yourselves in a room with one another, put together the best program, take it to the American people, use the electronic town hall -- the kind of thing you're doing here tonight -- build a consensus and then do it and then go on to the next one. But don't just sit here slow-dancing for four years doing nothing.
Q: Thank you, thank you, Mr. Perot. We have a question up here?
 
Term Limits
 Q: Please state your position on term limits, and if you are in favor of them how will you get them enacted?
BUSH: Any order? I'll be glad to respond. I strongly support term limits for members of the United States Congress. I believe it would return the government closer to the people, in a way that Ross Perot is talking about. The President's terms are limited to two -- a total of eight years; what's wrong with limiting the terms of members of Congress to 12? Congress has gotten kind of institutionalized, for 38 years one party has controlled the House of Representatives and the result, a sorry little post office that can't -- you know, can't do anything right and a bank that has more overdrafts than all the Chase Bank and Citibank put together. We've got to do something about it and I think you get a certain arrogance -- bureaucratic arrogance -- when people stay there too long. And so I favor -- strongly favor -- term limits.
And how to get them passed? Send us some people that'll pass the idea. And I think you will, I think the American people want it now. Every place I go I talk about it and I think they want it done. Actually, you'd have to have some amendments to the Constitution because of the way the Constitution reads.
Q: Thank you. Governor Clinton?
CLINTON: I know they're popular but I'm against them. I'll tell you why. I believe, No. 1, it would pose a real problem for a lot of smaller states in the Congress, would have enough trouble now making sure their interests are heard. No. 2, I think it would increase the influence of unelected staff members in the Congress who have too much influence already. I want to cut the size of the Congressional staffs, but I think you're going to have too much influence there with people who were never elected who have lots of expertise. No. 3, if the people really have a mind to change, they can. You're going to have 120 to 150 new members of Congress.
Now let me tell you what I favor instead; I favor strict controls on how much you can spend running for Congress. Strict limits on political action committees. Requirements that people running for Congress appear in open public debates like we're doing now. If you did that, you could take away the incumbent's advantage because challengers like me would have a chance to run against incumbents like him for House races and Senate races, and then the voters could make up their own minds without being subject to an unfair fight. So, that's how I feel about it. I think if we have the right kind of campaign reform, we'd get the changes you want.
Q: Mr. Perot, would you like to address term limitations?
PEROT: Yes. Let me do it, first, on a personal level. If the American people send me up to do this job, I intend to be there one term. I do not intend to spend one minute of one day thinking about re-election. And as a matter of principle, and my situation is unique and I understand it, I would take absolutely no compensation. I'd go as their servant.
Now, I have set as strong an example as I can and at that point when we sit down over at Capital Hill; tomorrow night I'm going to be talking about government reform. It's a long subject; you wouldn't let me finish tonight. You want to hear it, you can get it tomorrow night. But, the point is, you'll hear it tomorrow night. But, we have got to reform government. If you put term limits in, and don't reform government, you won't get the benefit you thought. It takes both. So, we need to do the reform and the term limits and after we reform it, it won't be a lifetime career opportunity. Good people will go serve and then go back to their homes. And not become foreign lobbyists and cash in at $30,000 bucks a month and then take time off to run some President's campaign. This, they're all nice people, they're just in a bad system. I don't there are any villains but, boy, is the system rotten.
Q: Thank you very much. We have a question over here.
 
Health Care
 Q: I'd like to ask Governor Clinton: Do you attribute the rising cost of health care to the medical profession itself? Or do you think the problem lies elsewhere, and what specific proposals do you have to tackle this problem?
CLINTON: I've had more people talk to me about their health care problems, I guess, than anything else. All across America, you know, people that lost their jobs, lost their businesses, had to give up their jobs because of their children.
So, let me try to answer you in this way. Let's start with a premise. We spend 30 percent more of our income than any nation on earth on health care. And yet we insure fewer people. We have 35 million people without any insurance at all. I see them all the time. A hundred thousand Americans a month have lost their health insurance just in the last four years. So if you analyze where we're out of line with other countries, you come up with the following conclusions: No. 1, we spend at least $60 billion a year on insurance, administrative costs, bureaucracy and government regulation that wouldn't be spent in any other nation. So we have to have, in my judgment, a drastic simplification of the basic health insurance policies of this country. Be very comprehensive for everybody.
Employers would cover their employees. Government would cover the unemployed. No. 2, I think you have to take on specifically the insurance companies and require them to make some significant change in the way they rate people into big community pools. I think you have to tell the pharmaceutical companies they can't keep raising drug prices at three times the rate of inflation. I think you have to take on medical fraud. I think you have to help doctors stop practicing defensive medicine. I've recommended that our doctors be given a set of national practice guidelines and that if they follow those guidelines, that raises the presumption that they didn't do anything wrong. I think you have to have a system of primary and preventive clinics in our inner cities and our rural areas so people can have access to health care.
The key is to control the cost and maintain the quality. To do that you need a system of managed competition where all of us are covered in big groups and we can choose our doctors and our hospitals across a wide range, but there is an incentive to control costs and I think there has to be -- I think Mr. Perot and I agree on this, there has to be a national commission of health care providers and health care consumers that set ceilings to keep health costs in line with inflation plus population growth.
Now let me say, some people say we can't do this but Hawaii does it. They cover 98 percent of their people and their insurance premiums are much cheaper than the rest of America. And so does Rochester, N.Y. They now have a plan to cover everybody and their premiums are two-thirds of the rest of the country. This is very important. It's a big human problem and a devastating economic problem for America. And I'm going to send a plan to do this within the first hundred days of my Presidency. It's terribly important.
Q: Thank you. Sorry to cut you short, but President Bush, health care reform.
BUSH: Can I -- I just have to say something. I don't want a stampede -- Ross was very articulate -- across the country. I don't want anybody to stampede to cut the President's salary off altogether. Barbara's sitting over here and I -- I -- but what I have proposed, 10 percent cut, downsize the Government and we can get that done. She asked the question, I think, is whether the health care profession was to blame.
No. One thing to blame is these malpractice lawsuits. They are breaking the system. It costs 20 to 25 billion dollars a year and I want to see those outrageous claims capped. Doctors don't dare to deliver babies sometimes because they're afraid that somebody's going to sue them. People don't dare -- medical practitioners -- to help somebody along the highway that are hurt, because they're afraid that some lawyer's going to come along and get a big lawsuit. So you can't blame the practitioners for the health problem.
And my program is this. Keep the government as far out of it as possible. Make insurance available to the poorest of the poor through vouchers, next range in the income bracket through -- through tax credits. And get on about the business of pooling insurance. A great big company can buy -- Ross got a good-size company, been very successful. He can buy insurance cheaper than mom and pop store on the corner. But if those mom and pop stores all get together and pool, they too can bring the cost of insurance down. So, I want to keep the quality of health care -- that means keep government out of it. I want to do -- I don't like this idea of these boards. It all sounds to me like you're going to have some government setting price. I want competition and I want to pool the insurance and take care of it that way.
And have -- here's another point. I think medical care should go with the person. If you leave a business, I think your insurance should go with you to some other business. You shouldn't be worrying if you get a new job as to whether that's going to -- and part of our plan is to make it what they call portable. A big word, but that means, if you're working for the Jones company, you go to the Smith company, your insurance goes with you. And I think it's a good program. I'm really excited about getting it done, too.
Q: Mr. Perot.
PEROT: We have the most expensive health-care system in the world; 12 percent of our gross national product goes to health care. Our industrial competitors who are beating us in competition spend less and have better health care. Japan spends a little over 6 percent of its gross national product, Germany spends 8 percent. It's fascinating. You bought a front-row box seat and you're not happy with your health care, and you're saying we've got bad health care but very expensive health care. Folks, here's why. Go home and look in the mirror. You own this country but you have no voice in it the way it's organized now. And if you want to have a high-risk experience comparable to bungee jumping, go in to Congress some time when they're working on this kind of legislation, when the lobbyists are running up and down the halls. Wear your safety-toe shoes when you go.
And as a private citizen, believe me, you are looked on as a major nuisance. The facts are, you now have a government that comes at you and you're supposed to have a government that comes from you. Now there are all kinds of good ideas, brilliant ideas, terrific ideas on health care. None of them ever get implemented because -- let me give you an example. A senator runs every six years; he's got to raise 20,000 bucks a week to have enough money to run. Who's he going to listen to, us? Or the folks running up and down the aisles with money -- the lobbyists, the PAC money. He listens to them. Who do they represent? The health-care industry. Not us.
Now you've got to have a government that comes from you again; you've got to reassert your ownership in this country and you've got to completely reform our government. And at that point they'll just be like apples falling out of a tree -- the programs will be good because the elected officials will be listening to -- I said the other night I was all ears? And I would listen to any good idea? I think we ought to do plastic surgery on all of these guys so that they are all ears, too, and listen to you. Then you get what you want, and shouldn't you? You pay for it, why shouldn't you get what you want as opposed to what some lobbyist who cuts a deal, writes the little piece in the law and it goes through. That's the way the game's played now.
Q: Thank you. Governor Clinton, you wanted one brief point ----
CLINTON: One brief point. We have elections so people can make decisions about this. The point I want to make to you is a bipartisan commission reviewed my plan and the Bush plan and concluded -- there were as many Republicans as Democratic health care experts on it -- they concluded that my play would cover everybody and his would leave two -- 27 million behind by the year 2000.
And that my plan in the next 12 years would save $2.2 trillion in public and private money to reinvest in this economy. And the average family would save $1,200 a year under the plan that I offered without any erosion in the quality of health care.
So I ask you to look at that. And you have to vote for somebody with a plan. That's what you have elections for. If people say, well, he got elected to do this and then the Congress says, O.K., I'm doing to do it -- that's what the election was about.
Q: Brief, Governor Clinton, thank you. We have a question right here.
 
Touched by the Economy
 Q: Yes. How has the national debt personally affected each of your lives. And if it hasn't, how can you honestly find a cure for the economic problems of the common people if you have no experience in what's ailing them?
PEROT: May I ----
Q: Well, Mr. Perot, yes, of course.
PEROT: Who do you want to start with? Go right ahead.
Q: Each of you ----
PEROT: It caused me to disrupt my private life and my business to get involved in this activity. That's how much I care about it. And believe me if you knew my family and if you knew the private life I have, you would agree in a minute that that's a whole lot more fun than getting involved in politics.
But I became -- I have lived the American dream. I came from a very modest background; nobody's been luckier than I've been. All the way across the spectrum and the greatest riches of all are my wife and children. Just as it's true of any family.
But, I want all the children -- I want these young people up here to be able to start with nothing but an idea like I did and build a business. But they've got to have a strong basic economy. And if you're in debt, you're -- it's like having a ball and chain around you.
I'm doing -- I just figure as lucky as I've been I owe it to them. And I owe it to the future generations. And on a very personal basis, I owe it to my children and grandchildren.
Q: Thank you, Mr. Perot. Mr. President.
BUSH: Well, I think the national debt affects everybody. Obviously it has a lot to do with interest rates. It has --
Q: She's saying you personally.
Q: On a personal basis, how has it affected you -- has it affected you personally?
BUSH: Well, I'm sure it has. I love my grandchildren and I want to think that ----
Q: How?
BUSH: I want to think that they're going to be able to afford an education. I think that that's an important part of being a parent. I -- if the question -- if you're -- maybe I get it wrong. Are you suggesting that if somebody has means that the national doesn't affect them?
Q: Well, what I'm saying ----
BUSH: I'm not sure I get it. Help me with the question and I'll try to answer it.
Q: Well, I've had friends that have been laid off from jobs. I know people who cannot afford to pay the mortgage on their homes; they're car payment. I have personal problems with the national debt. But how has it affected you? And if you have no experience in it, how can you help us if you don't know what we're feeling?
Q: I think she means more the recession, the economic problems today the country faces rather than the deficit.
BUSH: Well, you ought to -- you ought to be in the White House for a day and hear what I hear and see what I see and read the mail I read and touch the people that I touch from time to time. I was in the Lomax A.M.E. Church. It's a black church just outside of Washington, D.C. And I read in the -- in the bulletin about teen-age pregnancies, about the difficulty that families are having to meet ends -- to make ends meet. I talk to parents. I mean, you've got to care. Everybody cares if people aren't doing well. But I don't think -- I don't think it's fair to say, You haven't had cancer, therefore you don't know what it's like. I don't think it's fair to say, you know, whatever it is, that if you haven't been hit by it personally -- but everybody's affected by the debt because of the tremendous interest that goes into paying on that debt, everything's more expensive. Everything comes out of your pocket and my pocket.
So it's, it's sad, but I think in terms of the recession, of course you feel it when you're President of the United States. And that's why I'm trying to do something about it by stimulating the exports, investing more, better education system. Thank you. I'm glad to clarify it.
Q: Governor Clinton.
CLINTON: Tell me how it's affected you again. You know people who've lost their jobs and lost their homes.
Q: Well, yeah, uh-huh.
CLINTON: Well, I've been governor of a small state for 12 years. I'll tell you how it's affected me. Every year, Congress and the President sign laws that makes us -- make us do more things and gives us less money to do it with. I see people in my state, middle-class people, their taxes have gone up in Washington and their services have gone down while the wealthy have gotten tax cuts. I have seen what's happened in this last four years when in my state, when people lose their jobs, there's a good chance I'll know them by their names. When a factory closes I know the people who ran it. When the businesses go bankrupt, I know them. And I've been out here for 13 months meeting in meetings just like this ever since October with people like you all over America, people that have lost their jobs, lost their livelihood, lost their health insurance.
What I want you to understand is the national debt is not the only cause of that. It is because America has not invested in its people. It is because we have not grown. It is because we've had 12 years of trickle-down economics. We've gone from first to 12th in the world in wages. We've had four years were we've produced no private-sector jobs. Most people are working harder for less money than they were making 10 years ago. It is because we are in the grip of a failed economic theory. And this decision you're about to make better be about what kind of economic theory you want. Not just people saying I want to go fix it but what are we going to do. What I think we have to do is invest in American jobs, American education, control American health care costs and bring the American people together again.
Q: Thank you, Governor Clinton. We are a little more than half way through this program, and I'm glad that we're getting the diversity of questions that we are, and I don't want to forget these folks in the wings over here. So let's go over here. Do you have a question?
 
Pension Funds<HE
Q: My name is Vin Smith. I work in the financial field counseling retirees, and I'm particularly concerned about three major areas. One is the Social Security Administration where trust fund is projected to be insolvent by the year 2036, and we funded the trust fund with I.O.U.'s in the form of Treasury bonds. The pension guarantee fund, which backs up our private retirement plans for retirees, is projected to be bankrupt by the year 2026, not to mention the cutbacks by private companies, and Medicare is projected to be bankrupt, maybe as soon as 1997. And I would like from each of you a specific response as to what you intend to do for retirees relative to these issues. Not generalities but specifics, because I think they're very disturbing issues.
Q: President Bush, may we start with you?
BUSH: Well, the Social Security -- you're an expert, and I can, I'm sure, learn from you the details of the pension guarantee fund and the Social Security fund. The Social Security system was fixed about five years and I think it's projected out to be sound beyond that. So at least we have time to work with it.
But on all these things, a sound economy is the only way to get it going. Growth in the economy is going to add to these -- add to the overall prosperity and wealth. I can't give you a specific answer on pension guarantee funds; all I know is that we have firm government credit to guarantee the pensions, and that is very important. But it's -- it's the full faith and credit of the United States in space -- in spite of our difficulties is still pretty good. It's still the most respected credit. So I would simply say as these dates get close you're going to have to reorganize and refix as we did with the social security fund. And I think that's the only answer.
The most -- more immediate answer is to do what this lady was suggesting we do, and that is to get this deficit down and get on without adding to the woes and then restructure. One thing I've called for has been stymied and I'll keep on working for it is a whole financial reform legislation. It is absolutely essential in terms of bringing our banking system and credit system into the new age instead of having it living back in the dark ages. And it's a big fight and I don't want to give my friend Ross another shot at me here, but I am fighting with the Congress to get this through. And you can't just go up and say, "I'm going to fix it." You've got some pretty strong-willed guys up there that argue with you. But that's what the election's about. I agree with the Governor. That's what the election is about. And sound fiscal policy is the best answer I think to the -- all the three problems you mentioned.
Q: Thank you. Mr. Perot.
PEROT: Yes, on the broad issue here. When you're trying to solve a problem, you get the best plans. You have a raging debate about those plans. Then, out of that debate with leadership comes consensus. Then, if the plans are huge and complex like health care, I would urge you to implement pilot programs. Like the old carpenter who says measure twice and cut once. Let's make sure this thing's as good as we all think it is at the end of the meeting. Then finally our Government passes laws and freezes the plan in concrete. Anybody that's ever built a successful business will tell you, you optimize, optimize, optimize after you put something into effect. The reason Medicare and Medicaid are a mess is we froze them. Everybody knows how to fix them. There are people all over the Federal Government, if they could just touch it with a screwdriver could fix it.
Now back over here. See, we've got a $4 trillion debt and only in America would you have 2.8 trillion of it or 70 percent of it, financed five years or less. Now that's another thing for you think about when you go home tonight. You don't finance long-term debt with short-term money. Why did our Government do it? To get the interest rates down. A 1 percent increase in the interest rates and that $2.8 trillion is $28 billion a year. Now when you look at what Germany pays for money and what we don't pay for money you realize it's quite a spread, right. And you realize this is a temporary thing and there's going to be another sucking sound that runs our deficit through the roof. You know, and everybody's ducking it so I'm going to say it. That we are not letting that surplus stay in the bank. We are not investing that surplus like a pension fund. We are spending that surplus to make the deficit look smaller to you than it really is.
Now that's put you in jail in corporate America if you kept books that way, but in government it's just kind of the way things are. That's because it comes at you not from you. Now then, that money needs to be -- they don't even pay interest on it, they just write a note for the interest.
Q: Mr. Perot, can you wrap it up?
PEROT: So now then, that's important. See, do you want to fix the problem or sound bite it? I understand the importance of time but -- see here's how we get to this mess we're in. This is just 1 of 1,000 ----
Q: But we've got to be fair.
PEROT: Now then, to nail it, there's one way out. A growing expanding job base, a growing expanding job base to generate the funds and the tax revenues to pay off the mess and rebuild America. We got a double hit. If we're $4 trillion down, we should have everything perfect, but we don't. We've got to pay it off and build money to renew it -- spend money to renew it and that's going to take a growing expanding job base. That is Priority 1 in this country. Put everybody that's breathing to work. And I'd love to be out of workers and have to import them like some of our international competitors.
Q: Mr. Perot, I'm sorry I'm going to ----
PEROT: Sorry.
Q: And I don't want to sound bite you, but we are trying to be fair to everyone.
PEROT: O.K. No, absolutely. I apologize.
Q: All right, Governor Clinton.
CLINTON: I think I remember the question. And let me say first of all -- I want to answer your specific question but first of all we all agree that there should be a growing economy. What you have to decide is who's got the best economic plan. And we all have ideas out there, and Mr. Bush has a record. So I don't want you to read my lips, and I sure don't want you to read his. I just -- I do hope you will read our plans. Now specifically ----
BUSH: That's the first rule.
CLINTON: Specifically, one: on Medicare, it is not true that everyone knows how to fix it; there are different ideas. The Bush plan, the Perot plan, the Clinton -- we have different ideas. I am convinced, having studied health care for a year, hard, and talking to hundreds and hundreds of people all across America, that you cannot control the costs of Medicare until you control the costs of private health care and public health care, with managed competition, a ceiling on costs and radical reorganization of the insurance markets. You've got to do that, we've got to get those costs down.
Six increases in the payroll tax -- that means people with incomes of $51,000 a year or less pay a disproportionately high share of the Federal tax burden which is why I want some middle-class tax relief. What do we have to do? By the time the century turns, we have got to have our deficit under control. We have to work out of so that surplus is building up so when the baby boomers like me retire, we're O.K. No. 3, on the pension funds, I don't know as much about it but I will say this. What I would do is to bring in the pension experts of the country, take a look at it and strengthen the pension requirements further because it's not just enough to have a guarantee. We had a guarantee on the S.& L.'s, right? We had a guarantee and what happened? You picked up a $500 billion bill because of the dumb way the Federal Government deregulated. So I think we are going to have to change and strengthen the pension requirements on private retirement plans.
 
Foreign Affairs
 Q: Thank you. I think we have a question here on international affairs, hopefully.
Q: We've come to a position where we're in the new world order. And I'd like to know what the candidates feel our position is in this new world order and what our responsibilities are as a superpower.
Q: Mr. President.
BUSH: Well, we have come to that position since I became President, 43, 44 countries have gone democratic. No longer totalitarian; no longer living under dictatorship or Communist rule. This is exciting. This is -- new world order to me means freedom and democracy. I think we will have a continuing responsibility as the only remaining superpower to stay involved. If we pull back in some isolation and say we don't have to do our share or more than our share anymore, I believe you can just ask for conflagration that we'll get involved in in the future. NATO, for example, has kept the peace for many many years and I want to see us keep fully staffed in NATO so we'll continue to guarantee the peace in Europe.
But the exciting thing is the fear of nuclear war is down and you hear all the bad stuff that's happened on my watch. I hope people will recognize that this is something pretty good for mankind. I hope they'll think it's good that democracy and freedom is on the move. And we're going to stay engaged, as long as I'm President, working to improve things. You know, it's so easy now to say Hey, cut out foreign aid, we got a problem at home. I think the United States has to still be have the Statue of Liberty as a symbol of caring for others. We're -- right this very minute we're sending supplies in to help these little starving kids in Somalia. We're trying to get -- we're -- it's the United States that's taken the lead in, in humanitarian aid into Bosnia. We're doing this all around the world. Yes, we got problems at home and I think I got a good plan to help fix those problems at home. But because of our leadership, because we didn't listen to the freeze, the nuclear freeze group, you remember? Freeze it back in about 19 -- the late 70's. Freeze. Don't touch it. We're going to lock it in now or else we'll have war.
President Reagan said, "No, peace through strength." It worked. The Soviet Union is no more and now we're working to help them become totally democratic through the freedom support act that I led on. A great Democratic Ambassador, Bob Strauss, over there. Jim Baker. All of us got this thing passed through cooperation, Ross, it worked with cooperation and you're for that I'm sure. Helping Russia become democratic. So the new world order, to me, means freedom and democracy, keep engaged. Do not pull back into isolation and we are the United States and we have a responsibility to lead and to guarantee the security. If it hadn't been for us, Saddam Hussein would be sitting on top of three-fifths of the oil supply of the world and he'd have nuclear weapons. And the -- only the United States could do that. Excuse me, Carole.
Q: Thank you. Mr. Perot?
PEROT: Well, it's cost effective to help Russia succeed in its revolution. Pennies on the dollar compared to going back to cold war. Russia's still very unstable; they could go back to square one and worse. Still, all the nuclear weapons are not dismantled. I'm particularly concerned about the intercontinental weapons; the ones that can hit us. We've got agreements but they're still there. With all this instability and breaking in the republics, and all the Middle Eastern countries going over there shopping for weapons, we've got our work cut out for us so we need to stay right on top of that and constructively help them move toward democracy and capitalism. We have to have money to do that. We have to have our people at work.
See, for 45 years we were preoccupied with the Red Army. I suggest now that our No. 1 preoccupation is red ink in our country, and we've got to put our people back to work, so that we can afford to do these things we want to do in Russia. We cannot be the policemen for the world any longer. We spent $300 billion a year defending the world. Germany and Japan spend around $30 billion apiece. It's neat. If I can get you to defend me and I can spend all my money building industry, that's a homerun for me. Coming out of World War II it made sense. Now, the other superpowers need to do their part. I close on this point. You can't be a superpower unless you're an economic superpower. If we're not an economic superpower we used to be, then we will no longer be a force good throughout the world. And if nothing else gets you excited about rebuilding our industrial base, maybe that will because it's job I; is to put our people back to work.
Q: Governor Clinton, the President mentioned Saddam Hussein. Your Vice President and you have had some words about the President and Saddam Hussein. Would you care to comment?
CLINTON: I'd rather answer a question first, then I'll be glad to. Cause the question you ask is important. The end of the cold war brings an incredible opportunity for change. Winds of freedom blowing around the world. Russia demilitarizing. And it also requires us to maintain some continuity; some bipartisan American commitment to certain principles. And I would just say there are three things that I would like to say.
No. 1, we do have to maintain the world's strongest defense. We may differ about what the elements of that are. I think the defense needs to be with fewer people and permanent armed services, but with greater mobility on the land, in the air, and on the sea. With a real dedication to continuing the development of high technology weaponry, and well-trained people. I think we're going to have to work to stop the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Got to keep going until all the nuclear weapons in Russia are gone, and the other republics.
No. 2, if you don't rebuild the economic strength of this country at home we won't be a superpower. We can't have any more instances like what happened when Mr. Bush went to Japan and the Japanese Prime Minister said he felt sympathy for our country. We have to be the strongest economic power in the world. That's what got me into this race. So we could rebuild the American economy.
And No. 3, we need to be a force for freedom and democracy and we need to use our unique position to support freedom whether it's in Haiti, or in China, or in any other place; wherever the seeds of freedom are sprouting. We can't impose it but we need to nourish it. And that's the kind of thing that I would do as President. Follow those three commitments into the future.
Q: O.K., we have a question up there.
 
Education and Jobs
 Q: Yes, you've talked a lot tonight about creating jobs, but we have an awful lot of high school graduates who don't know how to read a ruler, who cannot fill out an application for a job. How can we create high-paying jobs with the education system we have, and what would you do to change it?
Q: Who would like to begin? The education President?
PEROT: Go ahead, yeah, go ahead.
BUSH: I'd be delighted to. Because you can't do it the old way. You can't do it with the school bureaucracy controlling everything. And that's why we have a new program that I hope people have heard about. It's being worked now in 1,700 communities -- bypassed Congress on this one, Ross -- 1,700 communities across the country. It's called America 2000. And it literally says to the communities: Reinvent the schools. Not just the bricks and mortar, but the curriculum and everything else. Think anew. We have a concept called the New American School Corporation where we're doing exactly that.
And so I don't -- I believe that we've got to get the power in the hands of the teacher, not the teachers' union. I -- what's happening up there.
And so our America 2000 program also says this. It says let's give parents the choice of a public, private or public school -- public, private or religious school. And it works. It works in Milwaukee. Democratic woman up there taken the lead in this -- the Mayor up there -- on the program. And the schools that are not chosen are improved; competition does that.
So we've got to innovate through school choice; we've got to innovate through this America 2000 program. But she is absolutely right -- the programs that we've been trying where you control everything and mandate it from Washington don't work.
The governors -- and I believe Governor Clinton was in on this, but maybe -- I don't want to invoke him here. But they come to me and they say, "Please get the Congress to stop passing so many mandates telling us how to control things. We know better how to do it in California" or Texas or wherever it is.
So this is what our program is all about, and I believe you're right on to something. If we don't change the education we're not going to be able to compete. Federal funding for education is up substantially, Pell Grants are up, but it isn't going to get the job done if we don't change K through 12.
Q: Governor Clinton?
CLINTON: First of all, let me say that I've spent more of my time and life on this in the last 12 years than any other issue. Seventy percent of my state's money goes to the public schools, and I was really honored when Time magazine said that our schools had shown more improvement than any other state in the country, except one other -- they named two states showing real strides forward in the 80's. So I care a lot about this and I've spent countless hours in schools. But let me start with what you said. I agree with some of what Mr. Bush said but it's nowhere near enough. We live in a world where what you earn depends on what you can learn, where the average 18-year-old will change jobs eight times in a lifetime, and where none of us can promise any of you that what you now do for a living is absolutely safe from now on.
Nobody running can promise that, there's too much change in the world. So what should we do? Let me reel some things off real quick because you said you wanted specifics.
No. 1, under my program we would provide matching funds to states to teach everybody with a job to read in the next five years and give everybody with a job a chance to get a high school diploma; in big places, on the job.
No. 2, we would provide two-year apprenticeship programs to high school graduates who don't go to college, in community colleges or on the job.
No. 3, we'd open the doors to college education to high school graduates without regard to income; they could borrow the money and pay it back as a percentage of their income over the couple of years of service to our nation here at home.
No. 4, we would fully fund the Head Start program to get little kids off to a good start.
And 5, I would have an aggressive program of school reform, more choices. I favor public schools or these new charter schools; we can talk about that if you want. I don't think we should spend tax money on private schools but I favor public school choice, and I favor radical decentralization and giving more power to better-trained principals and teachers with parent councils to control their schools.
Those things would revolutionize American education and take us to the top economically.
Q: Thank you, Governor Clinton. What the question is, what is it going to cost? What is it going to cost?
CLINTON: In six years the -- I budget all this in my budget -- in six years, the college program would cost $8 billion, over and above what -- the President's student loan program costs four. You pay $3 billion for busted loans because we don't have an automatic recovery system and a billion dollars in bank fees. So the net cost would be 8 billion six years from now in a trillion-plus budget, not very much.
The other stuff, all the other stuff I mentioned, costs much less than that. The Head Start Program full funding would cost about $5 billion more. And it's all covered in my budget from the plans that I've laid out from raising taxes on families with incomes above $200,000 and asking foreign corporations to pay the same tax that American corporations do on the same income. From $140 billion budget cuts including what I think are very prudent cuts in the defense budget. It's all covered in the plan.
Q: Thank you. Mr. Perot, you on education, please.
PEROT: Yes. I've got scars to show from being around education reform. And the first words you need to say in every city and state and just draw a line in the sand, is public schools exist for the benefit of the children. You're going to see a lot of people fall over. Because anytime you're spending $199 billion a year, somebody's getting it. And the children get lost in the process. So that's Step 1.
Keep in mind in 1960 when our schools were the envy of the world we were spending $16 billion on them. Now we spend more than any other nation in the world, $199 billion a year and ranked at the bottom of the industrialized world in terms of education achievement. One more time, you bought a front row box seat and got a third-rate performance, because the Government is not serving you.
By and large it should be local. The more local the better. An interesting phenomenon. Small towns have good schools, big cities have terrible schools. The best people in a small town will serve on the school board. You get into big cities, it's political patronage, stepping stones. You get the job, you gave your relatives the janitors jobs at $57,000 a year, more than the teachers make and with luck they clean the cafeteria once a week. Now, you're paying for that. Those schools belong to you. And we put up with that. Now as long as you put up with that that's what you're going to get. And these folks are just dividing up 199 billion bucks the children get lost. If I could wish for one thing for great public school's it'd be a strong family unit in every home. Nothing will ever replace that.
You say, well, gee, what are you going to do about that. Well, the White House is a bully pulpit and I think we ought to be pounding on the table every day. There's nothing -- the most efficient unit of government the world will ever know is a strong loving family unit.
Next thing, you need small schools not big schools. In a little school everybody's somebody. Individualism is very important. These big factories, everybody told me they were cost effective. I did a study on it. They're cost ineffective. Five thousand students, why is a high school that big? One reason. Sooner or later you'll get 11 more boys that can run like the devil that weigh 250 pounds and they might win district. Now that has nothing to do with learning.
Secondly, across Texas typically half the school day, was non-academic pursuits. In one place it was 35 percent. In Texas you can have unlimited absences to go to livestock shows. I found a boy -- excuse me but this gives the flavor -- a boy in Houston kept a chicken in the bathtub in downtown Houston. He mixed 65 days going to livestock shows. Finally had to come back to school. The chicken lost his feathers. That's the only way we got him back. Now, that's your tax money being wasted.
Now, neighborhood schools, it is terrible to bus tiny little children across town. And it is particularly terrible to take poor tiny little children and wait until the first grade and bus them across town to Mars where the children know their numbers, know their letters, have had every advantage. The end of the first day that little child wants out. I close on this.
You've got to have world-class teachers, world-class books. If you ever got close to how these books were selected, you wouldn't want to go back the second day. I don't have time to tell the stories.
Q: No, you don't.
PEROT: If we don't fix this, you're right, we can't have the industries of tomorrow unless we have the best educated work force. And here you've got for the disadvantaged children, you've got to have early childhood development; cheapest money you'll ever spend. First contact should be with the mother when she's pregnant. That little child needs to be loved and hugged and nurtured and made feel special. Like your children were. They learn to think well or poorly of themselves ----
Q: Thank you.
PEROT: ----In the first two years they learn how to learn or don't know how to learn how to learn and if they don't, they wind up in prison ----
Q: Thank you, Mr. Perot
PEROT: ---- than it does to send them to Harvard. I rest my case.
Q: Thank you. President Bush, you wanted to ----
BUSH: I just have a word of clarification because of something Governor Clinton said. My school choice program, G.I. Bill for kids, does not take public money and give it to private schools. It does what the G.I. Bill itself did, when I came out of World War II. It takes public money and gives it to families or individuals to choose the school they want. And where it's been done; those schools like in Rochester, those schools that weren't chosen, find that they then compete and do better.
So I think it's worth a shot. We've got a pilot program. It ought to be tried. School choice; public, private, or religious. Not to the schools, but -- you know, 46 percent of the teachers in Chicago; public school teachers; send their kids to private school. Now, I think we ought to try to help families and see if it will do what I think make all schools better.
CLINTON: I just want to mention, if I could, just ----
Q: Very briefly.
CLINTON: Very briefly. Involving the parents in the pre-school education of their kids, even if they're poor and uneducated, could make a huge difference. We have a big program in my state that teaches mothers or fathers to teach their kids to get ready for school. It's the most successful thing we've ever done.
Just a fact clarification, real quickly. We do not spend a higher percentage of our income on public education than every other country. There are nine countries that spend more than we do on public education. We spend more on education because we spend so much more on colleges. But if you look at public education alone, and you take it into account the fact that we have more racial diversity and more poverty, it makes a big difference. There are great public schools where there's public school choice, accountability and brilliant principles. I'll just mention one. The Beasley Academic Center in Chicago. I commend it to anybody; it's as good as any private school in the country.
Q: We have very little time left and it occurs to me that we have talked all this time and there has not been one question about some of the racial tensions and ethnic tensions in America. Is there anyone in this audience that would like to pose a question to the candidates on this? Yes.
 
Race and Politics
 Q: What I'd like to know -- and this is to any of the three of you -- is aside from the recent accomplishments of your party, aside from those accomplishments in racial representation, and without citing any of your current appointments or successful elections, when do you estimate your party will both nominate and elect an Afro-American and female ticket to the Presidency of the United States?
Q: Governor Clinton, why don't you answer that first.
CLINTON: Well I don't have any idea, but I hope it will happen sometime in my lifetime.
BUSH: I do too.
CLINTON: I believe that this country is electing more and more African-Americans and Latinos and Asian-Americans who are representing districts that are themselves not necessarily of a majority of their race. The American people are beginning to bolt across racial lines and I hope it will happen more and more.
More and more women are being elected. Look at all these women Senate candidates we have here. And, you know, according to my mother and my wife and my daughter this world would be a lot better place if women were running it most of the time. I do think there are special experiences and judgments and backgrounds and understandings that women bring to this process, by the way. This lady said here, how have you been affected by the economy. I mean, women know what it's like to be paid an unequal amount for equal work. They know what it's like not to have flexible working hours. They know what it's like not to have family leave or child care. So I think it would be a good thing for America if it happened, and I think it will happen in my lifetime.
Q: We have just a little time left. Let's try to get responses from each of them. President Bush or Mr. Perot.
BUSH: If Barbara Bush were running this year, she'd be elected. But she -- it's too late. You don't want us to mention appointees, but when you see the quality of people in our Administration, see how Colin Powell performed -- I say Administration; he's in the -- --
[Unintelligible interjection]
BUSH: You weren't impressed with the fact that he ----
Q: Excuse me, I'm extremely impressed with that.
BUSH: Yeah, but wouldn't that suggest to the American people, then, here's a quality person, if he decided he could automatically get the nomination of either party or ----
[Unintelligible interjection]
BUSH: Huh?
Q: I'm totally impressed with that. I just want to know when's your guess when?
BUSH: You mean time?
Q: Yeah.
BUSH: I don't know. Starting after four years. No, I think you'll -- I think you'll see more -- --
Q: Mr. Perot.
BUSH: I think you'll see more minority candidates and women candidates coming forward.
Q: Thank you.
BUSH: This is supposed to be the women's -- the Year of the Women in the Senate; let's see how they do. I hope a lot of them lose.
Q: Mr. Perot, I don't want to cut you off any more, but we only have a minute left.
PEROT: I have a fearless forecast. Unless he just won't do it, Colin Powell will be on somebody's ticket four years from now, right? Right?
[Unintelligible]
PEROT: You, you, you wanted -- that's it: four years.
Q: How about a woman?
PEROT: Now if he won't be, General Waller would be a -- you say, why do you keep picking, picking military people. These, these are people that I just happen to know and have a high regard for. I'm sure there are hundred of others.
BUSH: How about Dr. Lou Sullivan?
PEROT: Absolutely.
BUSH: Yeah, a good man.
Q: What about a woman?
PEROT: Oh, oh.
BUSH: My candidate's back there.
PEROT: O.K. I can think of many.
Q: Many?
PEROT: Absolutely.
Q: When?
PEROT: How about Sandra Day O'Connor, as an example. Dr. Bernadine Healy
Q: Good.
PEROT: National Institute of Health. I'll yield the floor. Name some more.
Q: Thank you. I, I, I want to apologize to our audience, because there were 209 people here and there were 209 questions. We only got to a fraction of them, and I'm sorry to those of you that didn't get to ask your questions, but we must move to the conclusion of the program.
It is time now for the two-minute closing statements and, by prior agreement, President Bush will go first.
BUSH: May I ask for an exception because I think we owe Carole Simpson a -- anybody can stand in between these three characters here and get the job done, we owe her a round of applause.
Just don't take it out of my time.
I feel strongly about it but I don't want it to come out of my time.
 
Closing Statements
 Q: Give that man more time.
BUSH: No, but let me just say to the American people in, in two and a half weeks we're going to choose who should sit in this Oval Office. Who to lead the economic recovery, who to be the leader of the free world, who to get the deficit down.
Three ways to do that: One is to raise taxes; one is to reduce spending, controlling that mandatory spending; another one is to invest and save and to stimulate growth.
I do not want to raise taxes. I differ with the two here on that. I'm just not going to do that. I do believe that we need to control mandatory spending. I think we need to invest and save more. I believe that we need to educate better and retrain better. I believe that we need to export more so I'll keep working for export agreements where we can sell more abroad. And I believe that we must strengthen the family. We've got to strengthen the family.
Now let me pose this question to America: If in the next five minutes, a television announcer came on and said there is a major international crisis -- there is a major threat to the world or in this country -- a major threat. My question is: Who, if you were appointed to name one of the three of us, who would you choose? Who has the perseverance, the character, the integrity, the maturity to get the job done? I hope I'm that person. Thank you very, very much.
Q: Thank you Mr. President. And now a closing statement from Mr. Perot.
PEROT: If the American people want to do it and not talk about it, then, they ought -- you know, I'm not person they ought to consider. If they just want to keep slow-dancing and talk about it, and not do it, I'm not your man. I am results-oriented, I am action-oriented. I've built my businesses. Getting things done in three months what my competitors took 18 months to do. Everybody says you can't do that in Congress; sure you can do that with Congress. Congress is -- they're all good people. They're all patriots. But you've got to link arms and work with them. Sure, you'll have arguments; sure, you'll have fights. We have them all day, every day. But we get the job done.
I have to come back in my close to one thing, because I am passionate about education. I was talking about early childhood education for disadvantaged low-income children. And let me tell you one specific pilot program, where children who don't have a chance go to this program when they're 3, and now we're going back to when the mother's pregnant. They'll start right after they're born. But going -- starting when they're 3 and going to this school until they're 9, and then going into the public schools, in the fourth grade? Ninety percent are on the honor roll. Now, that will change America. Those children will all go to college. They will live the American dream.
And I beg the American people, any time they think about reforming education, to take this piece of society that doesn't have a chance and take these little pieces of clay that can be shaped and molded and give them the same love and nurture and affection and support you give your children, and teach them that they are unique and that they're precious and there's only one person in the world like them and you will see this nation bloom. And we will have so many people who are qualified for the top job that it will be terrific and finally, if you can't pay the bill, you're dead in the water. And we have got to put our nation back to work. If you don't want to really do that, I'm not your man. I'd go crazy sitting up there slow-dancing that one; in other words unless we're going to do it, then pick somebody who likes to talk about it. Now just remember, when you think about me, I didn't create this mess, I've been paying taxes like you. And Lord knows, I've paid my share. Over a billion dollars in taxes. For a guy that started out with everything he owns in --
Q: I'm sorry.
PEROT: It's in your hands. I wish you well. I'll see you tomorrow night. On NBC 10:30, 11 Eastern.
Q: And finally, last but not least, Governor Clinton.
CLINTON: Thank you, Carole. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Since I suggested this forum and I hope it's been good for all of you, I've really tried to be faithful to your request that we answer the questions specifically and pointedly. I thought I owed that to you and I respect you for being here and for the impact you've had on making this as more positive experience.
These problems are not easy and not going to be solved overnight. But I want you to think about just two or three things. First of all the people of my state have let me be the Governor for 12 years because I made commitments to two things. More jobs and better schools. Our schools are now better; our children get off to a better start from preschool programs and smaller classes in the early grades, and we have one of the most aggressive adult education programs in the country. We talked about that. This year my state ranks first in the country in job growth, fourth in manufacturing job growth, fourth in income growth, fourth in the decline of poverty. I'm proud of that. It happened because I could work with people, Republicans and Democrats. That's why we've had 24 retired generals and admirals, hundreds of business people, many of them Republican, support this campaign.
You have to decide whether you want to change or not. We do not need four more years of an economic theory that doesn't work. We've had 12 years of trickle down economics. It's time to put the American people first, to invest and grow this economy. I'm the only person here who's ever balanced the government budget and I've presented 12 of them and cut spending repeatedly, but you cannot just get there by balancing the budget. We've got to grow the economy by putting people first. Real people like you. I've got into this race because I did not want my child to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents. We're better than that. We can do better than that. I want to make America as great as it can be and I ask for your help in doing it. Thank you very much.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Near the debate site, reporters waited to file their accounts. Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly of Washington was interviewed at left. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. A11); Barbara Bush was joined by friends and family members at last night's debate. (pg. A12); A member of the audience asking a question of President Bush, bottom left, during the Presidential debate last night at the University of Richmond in Virginia. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) (pg. A13); During last night's debate, customers at Macy's in San Fancisco listened to candidates' pitches instead of sales pitches. Not a single set was sold during the debate. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LET'S GO PUBLICATIONS INC (55%); UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (59%); UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (59%); UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RICHMOND (VA) UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; TELEVISION POLITICAL DEBATES (92%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (65%); FACTORY WORKERS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



528 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Administration Engulfed in Disarray As Bush Concentrates on Campaign

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15

 BODY:
While President Bush tries to revive his re-election bid on the campaign trail, his team in Washington is engulfed in another kind of crisis as key parts of the Administration seem to be unraveling.
In the latest twist, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, under threat of criminal investigation by the Justice Department, canceled testimony he was to give today about whether he had misused agency funds. Meanwhile, his wife was quoted in a Texas newspaper as saying that her husband had been in a "stupor," brought on in part by the political feuding between him and Bush appointees in other agencies.[Page A18.] 
 The troubles of the Director, William S. Sessions, are part of a highly unusual three-cornered battle involving the Central Intelligence Agency, the F.B.I. and its parent agency, the Justice Department. In the last two weeks this struggle has escalated into virtual civil war, with F.B.I. and Justice Department officials accusing one another today of engineering damaging newspaper leaks.
The C.I.A. and the Justice Department are also in a running contest to shift blame over the concealing of information about a multibillion-dollar bank fraud involving Iraq.
 Robert M. Gates, the Director of Central Intelligence, was recently forced to admit that his legal department had sent Federal prosecutors a misleading letter related to the case -- and then made the embarrassing assertion that he had been "out of the loop" on an action by his own subordinates.
 
Avoiding Distractions
 The White House has let these squabbles swirl while Mr. Bush and his chief of staff, James A. Baker 3d, have concentrated on the President's re-election campaign. In a recent directive the State Department, to avoid distracting Mr. Bush and Mr. Baker from the election, instructed its staff officers not to forward any issue to the White House unless it was of the most pressing nature.
As Washington took on the distinct tone of a city full of politicians who believe a new order may be coming and are trying to salvage their fortunes, the President emerged from the White House this afternoon to fly to Richmond for the second campaign debate.
He gathered his appointees on the South Lawn so they could wave goodbye to his helicopter as he flew off without commenting on the week's developments.
But the House Judiciary Committee and Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, were heavily engaged. They pressed for the appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate what the House panel called "possible criminal activities by high-ranking" officials of the C.I.A. and the Justice Department in connection with the scandal over $4 billion in loans from the Atlanta branch of the Banco Nazionale de Lavoro to Iraq.
 
Checking Clinton Records
 The State Department, in bureaucratic limbo with the former Secretary of State, Mr. Baker, running the campaign, was caught in an embarrassing admission that a political appointee had violated the department's own rules by expediting a request from news organizations for information from Gov. Bill Clinton's passport records from the 1960's. The search turned up nothing.
Although Defense Secretaries, notably Caspar Weinberger in the Reagan years, have often been in the vortex of such battles, the current Secretary, Dick Cheney, has so far sat out these Potomac wars. "We've been blissfully happy just to soldier on over here," said a senior Pentagon official.
Representative Vin Weber, a Minnesota Republican who is retiring and is therefore willing to express publicly what Republicans at every level were talking about today, said, "I don't have any previous experience with anything like this."
Much of the new bout of unease in Republican Washington is clearly driven by Mr. Bush's electoral problems. The Bush team even got a blow today from the Postmaster General, Marvin T. Runyon, who suggested that his agency might consider delivering mail only four days a week to save money.
 
Sounding a Warning Note
 Martin Anderson, a White House adviser in President Ronald Reagan's first term, sounded a warning note. "Some people have come to the conclusion that their President will probably lose, people on the inside, and they all want to be the first rat off the sinking ship," he said. "They had better have made the right choice, because if things turn around and Bush does win, these guys are in real trouble."
Mr. Weber, like many Washington Republicans, said that he was hoping for the best but that he was increasingly nervous about Election Day. In California today, the Congressman said he was not there on behalf of the President. "I'm campaigning for candidates who can win," he said with a resigned laugh, adding hastily, "Make that, who can win in California."
Many Republicans here said Mr. Bush worsened the atmosphere last week by noisily and unceremoniously dumping his entire economic team as a gesture to conservatives. Now he is facing mutinies among top advisers who seem more intent on saving their own reputations than on helping the re-election effort.
 
Blaming Bush's Advisers
 A recent series of articles in The Washington Post about the Administration's fractured economic policy appeared in part to be an attempt by the White House budget director, Richard G. Darman, to defend his record and blame Mr. Bush's political advisers.
"I think Darman explained that it was all Jim Pinkerton's fault," Mr. Weber said sardonically. Mr. Pinkerton was a relatively junior White House domestic policy aide who now works for the campaign.
It is particularly vexing to Mr. Bush's advisers that the most byzantine and potentially damaging fight of all, among the C.I.A., the F.B.I. and the Justice Department, is connected to what was supposed to have been the President's greatest triumph and electoral plus: the Persian Gulf war with Iraq. The agencies are embroiled in a struggle over American policy toward Iraq before the war, an issue that the Democrats have used assiduously to undermine Mr. Bush.
The Justice Department is conducting an investigation into whether Mr. Sessions tried to evade income taxes and billed the Government for personal long-distance telephone calls, an inquiry that seems straightforward enough.
But Senator David L. Boren, the Oklahoma Democrat who heads the Senate Intelligence Committee, suggested on Wednesday that the investigation may be partly intended to discourage the bureau from closely examining the department's own conduct in the prosecution of the bank fraud case involving the loans to Iraq.
The C.I.A. and the Justice Department have been pointing fingers at each other after a Federal judge accused both of withholding information from him and from prosecutors in Atlanta who were handling the case.
The Democrats have been quick to pounce on the deepening divisions within the Administration. "There seems to be some amount of chaos," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader. "You've got Baker going to go back to State one week, and the next week it's on to the economic front and the whole team being fired. I don't quite know why, but everything seems to be unraveling."
With all of this playing out in public, Mr. Gates, the Director of Central Intelligence, and Attorney General William P. Barr have made no evident move to end the feud. Indeed, Mr. Barr's public appearances have been largely confined to remarks assailing what he calls an erosion of traditional family values.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of President Bush watching yesterday as his helicopter left the White House for the debate. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SCANDALS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



529 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Benefits to Increase 3% in January

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15

 BODY:
Social Security recipients will get a 3 percent increase in their monthly checks starting in January, the Government announced today. That is the smallest cost-of-living adjustment in six years.
The increase, made automatically to keep pace with consumer prices, will benefit 40 million Americans on Social Security, as well as four million who receive welfare payments under the Supplemental Security Income program for the aged, blind and disabled. 
 The increase is worth $19 a month for the average retired worker, whose monthly benefit will rise to $653, from the current $634.
At the same time, the Government announced that the monthly Medicare premium would increase to $36.60, from $31.80. The premium buys health insurance to cover doctors' services under Part B of Medicare. Part B is voluntary, but more than 33 million people are enrolled. The premiums are typically deducted from Social Security checks.
 
Rapid Rise in Health Costs
 Congress set the amount of premiums for 1991 to 1995 in a 1990 law. The premiums are supposed to cover 25 percent of the cost of Part B of Medicare for the elderly. General tax revenues cover the remainder.
Health costs are rising about twice as fast as consumer prices, which rose two-tenths of 1 percent in September, the Government reported today. So economists say the new increase in Social Security benefits will not keep up with the rise in medical costs.
Horace B. Deets, executive director of the American Association of Retired Persons, said: "The low inflation rate is good news. But it is overshadowed by the fear of many older Americans who live on fixed incomes and are plagued by higher health-care costs and lower interest income from savings and investments."
Five million people in other Federal programs will get the same 3 percent increase in benefits given to Social Security recipients.
Among those getting the cost-of-living adjustment are 2.2 million people who receive Civil Service retirement pay, 1.7 million who get military retirement pay and more than a million veterans who receive pensions based on financial need.
 
Examples Are Given
 The Social Security Administration gave these examples of how the 3 percent increase will affect average monthly benefits. For an elderly couple, both getting benefits, the monthly check will be increased $32, to $1,106.
For a widow with two children, the average benefit will increase $38, to $1,288 a month. For an elderly widow or widower living alone, the average monthly payment will rise $18, to $608. For a disabled worker with a spouse and children, the average monthly benefit will rise $31, to 1,076.
For a worker retiring at the age of 65, the maximum Social Security benefit, $1,088 a month this year, will be $1,128 next year. The maximum Federal payment under Supplemental Security Income, now $633 for a couple, will be $652 next year.
The maximum earnings subject to Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes will also increase. The employer and employee each pay a Social Security tax equal to 6.2 percent of the first $55,500 of earnings this year. The Medicare tax is 1.45 percent of the first $130,200 of earnings.
Next year the maximum amount subject to the Social Security tax will be $57,600, while the wage base for Medicare will be $135,000.
The cost-of-living adjustment for next year is the smallest since 1987, when benefits were increased 1.3 percent. Benefits rose 3.7 percent this year and 5.4 percent in 1991.
Of the 40 million Social Security recipients, 32 million are 60 years old or over. The others are children, disabled workers and nonelderly survivors of workers who have died.
The annual cost-of-living adjustment reflects the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index from the third quarter of one year to the corresponding period of the next year.
Social Security was created in 1935 and did not have an automatic cost-of-living adjustment until Congress established that mechanism in 1972. Before then, Congress periodically legislated increases in benefits.
Although now seen as a factor driving up the cost of Social Security, the cost-of-living adjustment was originally adopted to help control the growth of the program. The first automatic increases took effect in 1975.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL PROGRAMS (53%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); AARP INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); AARP INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE MEDICARE (90%); AGING (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); CHILDREN (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DISABLED WORKERS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); HEALTH CARE (74%); BLINDNESS (71%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



530 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Seek to Restore Unity

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, England, Oct. 15

 BODY:
The one-day summit meeting of European Community leaders here on Friday, called to salvage some semblance of political unity among the 12 nations, will also highlight the deep economic divisions plaguing them.
The community will face considerable difficulty reaching accord on the two main economic issues facing its members: their approach to negotiations with the United States over agricultural trade and their efforts to put the European monetary system, which fractured during last month's currency crisis, back together. 
 On trade, France, wary of any deal that would cut subsidies to its politically influential farmers, has pledged to block any further concessions to the United States. France has given no sign that it will be willing to change its stand, even though President Francois Mitterrand will almost certainly face intense pressure from Britain and Germany, which are eager to reach a trade deal to give a boost to their weakening economies.
 
Bush Applies Added Pressure
 Additional pressure was applied today as President Bush sent a letter to European Community ministers asserting that the United States had done all it could to break the deadlock in world trade talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT, and that it was the Europeans' turn to compromise.
"We have stretched as far as possible to meet the E.C.'s concerns," the President said in the letter. "The negotiators have done all they can. Now we need the political will."
Mr. Bush said an accord was "within reach," but he added that if the two sides fail to reach an agreement, "we face the specter of an escalating trade conflict."
In Brussels today, Jacques Delors, the president of the European Community's commission, said the United States had not made sufficient concessions in the trade negotiations, and he said the entire community must be prepared to say no to a deal. "I have considered the relationship between the adolescent community and its big brother the United States," he said. "I have always thought the community should say no to its big brother if it had the right argument."
European and American officials say France is the main country blocking an agreement. Britain and Germany have indicated that they are more or less satisfied with the American offer, and British officials say they will press France at the Birmingham summit meeting to be more flexible in the trade talks.
Because France's unpopular Government is facing a no-confidence vote in Parliament next month, few analysts expect France to embrace a compromise in the next few weeks.
"I reject the analysis that GATT is only a French problem," said Mr. Delors, who is French.
 
Discussions With the U.S.
 Asked whether Britain, which holds the community's rotating presidency, would use the meeting to press France to make concessions, a senior British official said, "We are working very hard to make sure all roadblocks to an agreement disappear."
But the official declined to be specific about what proposals might be made on trade, saying the discussions within the community and between Europe and the United States were at a very sensitive stage.
The official said Frans Andriessen, the European Community's external affairs commissioner and point man on the trade talks, would brief the leaders on the negotiations and would receive instructions from them before flying to Canada for talks on Saturday with Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative.
The biggest stumbling block is the level of subsidies provided by the community, particularly France, to producers of seeds grown for their oil. The dispute between Europe and the United States has held up progress on a worldwide trade agreement being negotiated under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
On the monetary system, British officials said Prime Minister John Major would stick to his position that the European exchange rate mechanism was flawed and must be reformed before Britain could consider rejoining. Italy also withdrew from the system last month after waves of speculative selling drove down the values of the weaker currencies.
Until Britain and Italy are back in the system of semi-fixed exchange rates, Europe is unlikely to be able to make any progress toward its goal of a single currency.
But Germany and France, among other nations, are resisting any changes to the system, and Mr. Major has made clear that Britain, battered by its own economic problems and in no position to defend the value of the pound any further, is in no rush to rejoin anyway. Britain has been suffering from waves of layoffs, including the announcement this week that 31,000 jobs would be eliminated in the coal mining industry, and Mr. Major is under intense pressure to cut interest rates to stimulate the economy, even if the pound drops further.
While the European leaders have put the monetary system on the agenda for the day, Mr. Major said the discussions would be general and would not yield specific agreements on any changes. The European finance ministers will not be present.
The review of the monetary situation "will not be a detailed operational discussion, but I hope we can come to some procedural conclusions," Mr. Major said in a letter this week to the heads of the other nations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police in Birmingham, England, conducting a security search yesterday around a statue dedicated to workers of the city, which is to host a one-day summit meeting of European Community leaders today. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (91%); GERMANY (90%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (73%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (73%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; ITALY; FRANCE; UNITED STATES EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (91%); GERMANY (90%); BELGIUM (79%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EURO (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); AGRICULTURE (71%); 

PERSON: ;STEVENSON, RICHARD W GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



531 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Lose Early Gains, and More

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The bond market got a shot of adrenalin yesterday morning from some sour economic news out of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. But the booster shot was not enough to keep a rally going. And the market gave up all of its gains and then some some in an afternoon of tumbling prices.
Traders said there was no specific economic news in the afternoon to touch off the slide and suggested that the market was just caught in a trading range ahead of the Presidential election. 
 Pushing the market higher are the continued data showing both slow economic growth and low inflation. But concerns about the possible inflationary and deficit-enlarging consequences of an economic stimulus program after the election is putting a lid on any rally.
 
'Trading-Range Mentality'
 "The trading-range mentality is taking hold again," said James S. Fralick, senior economist at Morgan Stanley & Company. "The market is being pulled back and forth by the slow growth and low inflation fundamentals and the fears of a Clinton economic stimulus program."
This means that many traders will quickly take profits after any good rally because they think that longer- term permanent gains will have to wait until after the election and until the Federal Reserve decides if it needs to cut short-term interest rates again.
The economic data yesterday supported both the low inflation and slow-growth picture. The Consumer Price Index rose just two-tenths of a percent in September. And the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadephia's manufacturing index showed a sharp drop in September.
Late in the day, a Federal Reserve Board governor, Robert Parry, raised the possibility of further short-term interest rates cuts to stimulate the economy in a speech in San Francisco. It seems lately that Fed officials have been trying to keep the hope of a rate cut alive while not actually making one.
 
Similar Greenspan Comments
 The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, made similar comments over the weekend in an effort to dispel published reports that the Fed had decided at last week's Federal Open Market Committee meeting not to cut interest rates before the election.
But uncertainity about the election and what kind of stimulus package Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas might propose seemed to keep a lot of regular customers out of the market, traders said, and made taking profits look good to others.
In fact, a news service report saying that a Clinton Administration would allow the budget deficit to grow immediately to pay for a stimulus program helped stoke this fear, traders said, and contributed to the fall in bond and note prices.
In addition, while an interest rate cut is still likely, many traders do not expect one before the election.
"When you get the good news that came out and the market reacts like this, it doesn't make you feel too positive," said Joel Kazis, managing director for government trading at UBS Securities in New York.
In late trading in the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 7.25 percent 30-year bond was offered at 9630/32 , down 7/32 to yield 7.50 percent, compared with 7.49 percent Wednesday. The price of the bond had been up about 3/8 point with its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, falling close to 7.45 percent.
 
Results of Auction
 The reversal of early gains was also true for Treasury notes. The 6.375 percent 10-year note, for example, was up about one half a point but finished the day down 10/32 to yield 6.52 percent, compared with 6.47 percent Wednesday.
Another sign of the trouble the market is having resulted from the Treasury auction of $14.25 billion in one-year bills. The average discount rate was 3.12 percent, which was the highest rate since the Aug. 20 auction. But 81 percent of the bills were awarded at the low price, high discount rate of 3.13 percent.
Traders said that this meant that a lot of dealers got more of the bills than they wanted because the bid of 3.13 percent was not meant to be aggressive. By the end of the day, the discount rate had risen to around 3.16 in the pre-auction or when-issued market, meaning that many bidders for the bills had losses on the day.
 
Municipal Bonds
 Municipal bonds closed unchanged in light trading after losing gains made early in the day, traders said. The market was pulled down in part by the afternoon fall in the Treasury market.
In addition, traders said that the sale of $1.3 billion in California general obligation bonds Wednesday had not gone as well as hoped for the dealers who bought them. The apparently aggressive pricing that saved the state money left the yields too low to be attractive to many potential buyers. Some traders said the bonds were selling in the secondary market at cost or at a loss and that a small portion of the bonds was left unsold.
Results of the Treasury's one-year bill auction yesterday:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 96.845
Discounted Rate . . . 3.12%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.24%
High Price . . . 96.845
Discounted Rate . . . 3.12%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.24%
Low Price . . . 96 835
Discounted Rate . . . 3.13%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.25%
Accepted at low price . . . 81%
Total applied for . . . $36,190,660
Accepted . . . $14,273,620
N.Y. applied for . . . $34,137,005
N.Y. accepted . . . $13,653,405
Noncompetitive . . . $356,350
 
The one-year bills mature Oct. 23, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows the average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bondrs and 25 revenue bonds from July-Oct., 1992. (Source: The Bond Buyer); "1-Year Treasury Bills" shows the average discounted rate in percent from June 1991-Oct. 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (92%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (69%); MORGAN STANLEY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



532 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Latest Economic Figures Help Drive the Dollar Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell yesterday against most leading currencies as the latest economic data kept traders pessimistic about the economy.
Gold prices fell. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $341 an ounce, off $1.80 from Wednesday. The Republic National Bank said gold fell $1.75 an ounce, to $341. 
 Bruce Steinberg, a senior economist at Merrill Lynch, said economic indicators released yesterday were not extremely positive. Economists said there was little evidence that the economy was poised to begin growing enough to make significant inroads into the unemployment rate.
 
 
'Pretty Weak'
 "Probably the weight of evidence showed the economy remained pretty weak" and dollar trading was affected by that, Mr. Steinberg said.
"Therefore the Fed was more likely to ease as not," he added, speaking about the Federal Reserve Board's inclination to lower interest rates. Speculation has gone back and forth on that possibility for weeks.
"The Fed has left people scratching their heads about what is going on," he said.
In New York the dollar settled at 120.25 yen, down from 121.02 yen on Wednesday. Overnight in Tokyo, the dollar closed at 120.55 yen, down 0.55 yen from Wednesday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 120.25 yen.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.7045, from $1.7085 late Wednesday. In New York it cost $1.6945 to buy one pound, less expensive than Wednesday's $1.7065.
 
 
Late New York Rates
 Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Wednesday's rates, included: 1.4525 marks, down from 1.4605; 1.2980 Swiss francs, down from 1.3015; 4.9325 French francs, down from 4.9620; 1,287.5 lire, down from 1,290.50, and 1.2480 Canadian dollars, up from 1.24795.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); JAPAN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

PERSON: BRUCE STEINBERG (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



533 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Many Stocks Up, but Dow Slides 20.80

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Disappointing earnings news from two market leaders drove the Dow Jones industrial average down yesterday, while the broader market weathered the news to end higher.
The index of 30 blue-chip stocks lost 20.80 points to close at 3,174.68, as the Philip Morris Companies dropped 3 7/8, to 80 1/8, and the International Business Machines Corporation slid 4 7/8, to 73 1/8, after releasing worse-than-expected earnings. Their drops accounted for roughly half the loss on the blue-chip index. 
 In the broader market, advancers led declines, 888 to 831, on heavy New York Stock Exchange volume of 213.6 million shares, compared with 175.9 million Wednesday.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 0.23 point, to 409.60, and the New York Stock Exchange Composite index of all listed common stocks rose 0.15, to 225.54. The average share rose 2 cents. The Nasdaq index gained 2.42, to 578.64.
The Wilshire Associates Equity Index -- the market value of ew York Stock Exchange, American and Nasdaq issues -- was 3,959.094, up 4.485, or 0.11 percent, even though the American Stock Exchange index lost 0.54, to 365.63.
Another blue chip, Westinghouse, fell on investor concern over its credit unit.
"Participants had to be impressed that on a day when three of the Dow giants sustained such body blows, the broad market still turned in a plus for the day," said Robert Stovall of Stovall/21st Advisers.
Analysts said third-quarter earnings reports would be the market's guiding force for the time being.
 "People are reacting to situations on an individual basis," one trader said.
He said yesterday's trading was a prime example of investors' selectivity, given that broader measures held up despite the battering on the Dow.
"I.B.M. puts a dampener on the market, but it doesn't create a panic." he said. "It's not a bellwether anymore."
 
Deficit Is Reported by I.B.M.
 I.B.M. reported a $2.8 billion third-quarter loss, its second-biggest quarterly deficit. Philip Morris reported a 16 percent increase in third-quarter profits, but that rise was below market expectations.
"The market acted fine outside of those two stocks," said Gerald Simmons, head of institutional trading at Interstate/Johnson Lane. "The market is not in bad shape at all."
Government reports that the September Consumer Price Index rose two-tenths of 1 percent and jobless claims dipped to 383,000 from the expected 404,000 figure had little influence on the market.
"They were certainly nothing to get excited about," one trader said. Mr. Stovall said there was still speculation the Federal Reserve could cut interest rates before the election in November.
Chrysler rose 1, to 24 1/8. Bear, Stearns raised its third-quarter estimate on the auto maker.
St. Jude Medical gained 3, to 35. Several analysts raised their earnings estimates after the company reported strong third-quarter results.
Coca-Cola rose 1, to 39 1/2. It released a favorable earnings report Wednesday. Bear, Stearns upgraded its rating.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (84%); IBMC (BRU) (84%); IBM (NYSE) (84%); IBM (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (51%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: ROBERT STOVALL (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



534 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Economy Continues to Limp Along

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15

 BODY:
Consumer prices rose a tiny two-tenths of 1 percent in September despite a big jump in fruit and vegetable prices, the Labor Department said today in a report showing that the weak economy was keeping a lid on inflation.
In new signs of lethargy, economists pointed to two other reports, which showed that Americans' average weekly earnings fell 1.3 percent in September, the biggest setback in nearly two years, while businesses continued to accumulate unwanted inventories in August. 
 Even a report that the number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits fell sharply in early October failed to lift economists' gloom.
 
 
'Economy Is Still Struggling'
 They said there was little evidence that the economy was poised to begin growing enough to make significant inroads into the unemployment rate.
"All the reports are consistent with the sluggish, languid growth path that we have been on," said Robert Dederick, chief economist of the Northern Trust Company of Chicago. "The economy is still struggling."
These were among today's economic reports:
*The two-tenths of 1 percent rise in the Labor Department's Consumer Price Index left retail prices rising at an annual rate of just 2.9 percent through the first nine months of the year. If that rate holds, it would be the second-best inflation performance in 27 years. For September, fruit and vegetable prices jumped sharply for a second consecutive month, but virtually every other category, including energy, showed moderation.
*The 1.3 percent plunge in average weekly earnings was the biggest drop since October 1990 and reflected declines in the average number of hours worked and average earnings. The earnings decline was the third in the last four months and was consistent, economists said, with a stagnant economy that has been shedding high-paying manufacturing jobs.
* The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell to 383,000 for the week ended Oct. 3, the lowest level in seven weeks and the second consecutive big decline. The drop of 16,000 reflected big declines in claims applications in Florida and Hawaii, which analysts attributed to a more stabilized work force after disruptions caused by recent hurricanes.
*Business inventories climbed three-tenths of 1 percent, to $838.1 billion in August, the sixth increase in eight months, while business sales suffered a big drop over the same period, 1.2 percent. Economists said the combination of rising levels of unsold goods and slumping sales was likely to translate into production cutbacks in the months ahead.
Labor Secretary Lynn Martin called the two weeks of declining jobless claims "a strong sign that the labor market is continuing to improve steadily."
But Sung Won Sohn, an economist at the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis, predicted that jobless claims figures would begin rising in coming weeks as the weak economy forces more layoffs. He noted that the four-week average was still above the 400,000 mark -- at 405,000.
 
 
Social Security Increases
 The September inflation report was used by the Government to compute the benefit increase for Social Security recipients. Based on the low inflation rate, 44 million Social Security recipients will get a 3 percent increase in benefits next year, the smallest rise in six years.
The increase will raise the average monthly Social Security check by $19, to $653.
Food prices in September rose four-tenths of 1 percent after a seventh-tenths of 1 percent gain in August. Both were attributed to a 12.1 percent surge over the last two months in fruit and vegetable prices.
In September, lettuce prices shot up 15.3 percent after a 23.4 percent surge in August.
Energy prices were unchanged after a two-tenths of 1 percent drop in August. Gasoline prices fell in both months, declining seventh-tenths of 1 percent in September.
Clothing costs were up two-tenths of 1 percent in September while housing costs edged up one-tenth of 1 percent. As usual, the biggest increase for any of the major categories was in medical care, which rose five-tenths of 1 percent in September and was up 7 percent over the last 12 months.
Excluding the volatile food and energy categories, the core inflation rate was two-tenths of 1 percent in September, indicating that price pressures throughout the economy remained well contained.
Through September, this underlying rate of inflation was rising for the year at an annual rate of 3.3 percent. If that holds, it would be the smallest yearly advance since 1972.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Inventory-Sales Ratio" shows the total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales from March 1991-Aug. 1992. (Source: Commerce Department); "Consumer Prices" shows the percent changes of consumer prices from Oct. 1991-Sept. 1992. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (69%); WFC (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NORTHERN TRUST CORP (69%); WELLS FARGO & CO (60%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); PRICES PRICE INCREASES (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



535 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
 
* CIT Group Holdings Inc., 60 percent owned by Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. and 40 percent owned by Chemical Banking Corp., is offering $100 million of daily floating-rate medium-term notes due Nov. 1, 1993, at a price of 100 through Goldman, Sachs & Co. The initial rate was set at the prime rate, currently at 6 percent, less 255 basis points, with interest paid quarterly. Noncallable for life, the notes are rated A-1 by Moody's and A+ by S.& P.
 
* Dillard Department Stores Inc., Little Rock, Ark., has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a shelf offering of up to $300 million of debt securities.
 

* Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. is offering $250 million of debentures due 1999 at a price to yield 6.45 percent through various securities dealers. The debentures are callable after three years, with interest payable semiannually.
 
* Fort Howard Corp., Green Bay, Wis., announced the postponement yesterday of a proposed offering of $250 million in senior notes and $250 million in subordinated debentures because of market conditions.
 
* ITT Rayonier Inc., Stamford, Conn., is offering $110 million of 7 1/2 percent notes due 2002 at 99.375 to yield 7.59 percent through Morgan Stanley & Co. The noncallable notes are rated Baa-2 by Moody's and A+ by S.& P.
 
* Kimberly-Clark Corp., Dallas, has filed for a shelf offering of $300 million of debt securities.
 
* Merrill Lynch & Co. is offering $100 million of 5 1/4 percent notes due 1995 at a price of 99.85 to yield 5.305 percent through Merrill Lynch. The noncallable notes are rated A-1 by Moody's and A+ by S.& P.
 
* Pacific Gas and Electric Co., San Francisco, is offering $400 million of 8 1/4 percent first and refunding mortgage bonds due 2022 at a price of 98.032 to yield 8.43 percent through First Boston. Noncallable for five years, the notes are rated A-1 by Moody's and A by S.& P.
 
* Student Loan Marketing Association is offering $200 million of 4.53 percent noncallable notes due 1995 at a price of 100 through Morgan Stanley & Co.
 
* Time Warner Inc., New York, has filed a shelf offering for up to $1.37 billion of debt securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); CIT (NYSE) (93%); MS (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (84%); DL7A (FRA) (71%); DDS (NYSE) (71%); RYN (NYSE) (68%); KMB (NYSE) (67%); PCG (SWX) (65%); PCG (NYSE) (65%); TWX (NYSE) (63%); SLM (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (93%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (71%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (71%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (69%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (67%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (65%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (65%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (63%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (71%); WISCONSIN, USA (55%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (56%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); CIT GROUP INC (93%); DAI-ICHI KANGYO BANK LTD (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); DILLARD'S INC (71%); FORT JAMES CORP (69%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (68%); RAYONIER INC (68%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (67%); PG&E CORP (65%); TIME WARNER INC (63%); SLM CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); ARKANSAS, USA (71%); WISCONSIN, USA (55%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (56%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEBT NOTES (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); STUDENT LOANS (74%); PRIME RATES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); RETAILERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



536 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: On Stage, and Off

BYLINE: By Bruce Weber

 BODY:

A Deal Fails
"Money and Friends," a play by the Australian playwright David Williamson, will go on as planned at the James A. Doolittle Theater in Los Angeles in January, but its move to New York has hit a snag. The show, directed by Michael Blakemore and starring Christine Lahti, was to open at the Richard Rodgers Theater in April. But two weeks ago the producer, Emanuel Azenberg, dropped out after failing to reach an agreement with Mr. Williamson's agent, Gil Parker. 
 The dispute involved subsidiary rights in particular and Broadway's dire economics in general. Mr. Azenberg, along with Gordon Davidson, the artistic director of the Center Theater Group in Los Angeles, and the film producer Ray Stark, had put together a package for the Los Angeles production, the Broadway production and a subsequent film. In return, Mr. Azenberg sought what both sides agree was an unusual concession: a share of the film rights up front, before the play came to Broadway. "By getting the movie company involved, we get to use a share of the movie money early," he explained. "So the regional theater benefits from the subsidiary sale and my costs are diminished because the scenery is built in L.A."
The deal was untenable, Mr. Parker said, because film rights are often incentives for investors in Broadway shows; if those rights are sold before the play gets to Broadway, the playwright has no protection if, for some reason, the rights-holding producer decides not to do the play in New York.
"Ordinarily, when someone doing a play out of town gets fully vested and doesn't bring it into town, no one else will get it because you have nothing to give them," Mr. Parker said. He added there are other producers interested and that he still had every expectation that the play would get to Broadway.
Mr. Azenberg said he understood he was asking for a break in precedent but added that such incentives might be the only way to draw investors to the ever-more-precarious business of producing straight plays on Broadway.
 
A Busy Mason
 Careful readers of theater advertisements will have noted that the hardest-working man in show business this fall is the director Marshall W. Mason. With his production of Larry Kramer's play "The Destiny of Me" now in previews at the Lucille Lortel Theater on Christopher Street, Mr. Mason began rehearsals this week on "The Sea Gull" for the National Actors Theater.
Then over the weekend, advertisements for "Solitary Confinement," the Rupert Holmes thriller starring Stacy Keach, which begins previews at the Nederlander on Oct. 27, declared that though the show would be "based on original direction by Kenneth Frankel," the Broadway production is to be "supervised" by Mr. Mason. The relative type sizes would seem to indicate that Mr. Mason's role has superseded Mr. Frankel's.
Explaining the unusual credit, Mr. Mason said he had been asked by Mr. Keach, with whom he worked on a production of "Sleuth," to advise him in New York. "Solitary Confinement," which had its premiere at the Pasadena Playhouse last fall and has since had limited runs in San Diego and Washington, has been without a director since it left the West Coast.
Mr. Frankel said the show, which relies heavily on video technology, has not been changed since he first staged it. He said he didn't go on the road with it because he had a commitment to direct an episode of "Doogie Howser, M.D." on television. He has no problem with Mr. Mason taking over, Mr. Frankel said.
"Obviously, I don't have much time to give it," Mr. Mason said, adding that he had seen a videotape of the Washington production and thought the show was in good shape. "I'm going to go three nights a week and act as a mirror for Stacy. He's been without a director for quite some time and he needs to feel someone's out there he trusts."
In the meantime, Mr. Mason said, the initial rehearsals on "The Sea Gull" are going well, a relief for all involved after Jon Voight nearly pulled out of the production when his participation was announced before the contracts were signed. Mr. Voight said the last-minute panic was his own fault; he had been uneasy that a film commitment might cause a schedule conflict.
"Actors can get very nervous about that," Mr. Mason said, referring to publicity before the fact. "I had a little bit of the same reaction myself when I saw my name connected to 'Solitary Confinement.' I haven't done anything yet."
 
Staging a Novel
 The Mitzi Newhouse Theater was nearly full on Monday night for the reading of an unusual work in progress: "Bailey's Cafe," Gloria Naylor's stage adaptation of her recent novel. The invitation-only event was sponsored by the playwrights' program at the Lincoln Center Theater and the Roger Furman Theater. In the novel, down-and-out characters, habitual customers of the title place, explain their own stories, creating a web of narratives that ends up suggesting that Bailey's is less an actual edifice than a mythical one, the place humanity has ended up.
It's a format that lends itself to dramatization, and with Ms. Naylor's alternately earthy and lyric prose, the reading, ragged and a little unformed though it was, still managed to rouse the house, occasionally cracking up the performers as well as the audience. (During a racy anecdote concerning lovemaking and a sweet-potato pie, the reading came to a halt because everyone was in hysterics.)
Ms. Naylor, 42 years old, a native New Yorker and a graduate of Brooklyn College and Yale, is a talkative woman with an earnest, investigative demeanor. She is the author of four novels -- her first, "The Women of Brewster Place," won the National Book Award -- but never before a play, and she spoke in an interview about the complications of turning one into the other, sounding very much like a nervous apprentice:
"I went through the monologues in the novel and asked about each one: What is most germane here? What is most dramatic? And then, I wanted to take the most musical elements from the book. What I'm discovering is the leaner the better."
As she was writing the book, she said, "the characters just kind of stepped forth to testify. Now I didn't plan that, but I thought, at the end, this could be for the stage."
It was to maintain that kind of independence in her characters that she created a new one for the play, Gloria Naylor, whom the others resent as their creator and with whom they occasionally bicker. "I like the idea that these are characters in a book," she said. "Because characters do come alive, and they do talk back to you."
The reading, she said, was very valuable.
"I needed to get my ears around the speeches," she said. "It's still a little too wordy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Posters for Papp: An exhibition of 50 New York Shakespeare Festival posters by the artist Paul Davis opens at 5 P.M. Wednesday at Gallery 1199, 310 West 43d Street. Mayor David N. Dinkins is to speak. The show, honoring the festival's founder, Joseph Papp, who died last year, is presented by Bread and Roses, the cultural wing of Local 1199, the hospital and health-care employees union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MONEY AND FRIENDS (PLAY); SOLITARY CONFINEMENT (PLAY); BAILEY'S CAFE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: NAYLOR, GLORIA; WEBER, BRUCE; WILLIAMSON, DAVID; MASON, MARSHALL; HOLMES, RUPERT; KEACH, STACY CHRISTINE LAHTI (58%); RAY STARK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



537 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: The Art Market

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

A Disney Attack
The incident may seem a little Mickey Mouse. But it's Donald Duck, too. And bets are that when Goofy gets wind of it, he'll be growling mad. 
 Walt Disney is. And the company is making no secret of it, as the New York artist Dennis Oppenheim recently found out. As soon as "Virus," the artist's 10-foot-high jungle-gym-like sculpture decorated with Mickey Mice and Donald Ducks went up in Santa Monica, Calif., Mr. Oppenheim received a letter demanding that he "immediately remove and destroy" the sculpture.
The work sits in the atrium of Colorado Place, an office complex built by a Los Angeles developer, Maguire Thomas Partners.
The letter from Disney told Mr. Oppenheim to provide "an itemized statement certified to by an authorized officer stating that the 'Virus' sculpture has been removed and destroyed, in addition to providing us with the certificate of destruction."
"These characters are our birthright: we have to defend them," said Tom Deegan, vice president of corporate communications at Disney. "Mr. Oppenheim wasn't authorized to use either Mickey Mouse or Donald Duck."
But Peter D. Raymond, a copyright lawyer representing the artist, said Disney had overstepped its bounds. "Walt Disney has a reputation in the industry for taking a hard line on these type of issues," Mr. Raymond said. "But in this case we believe that Mr. Oppenheim's work constitutes a fair use of the characters in question because it is an artistic expression."
"Virus" was conceived as part of a larger body of work that used common, lighthearted images on "deadly structures," the artist said this week. " 'Virus' was supposed to have the characteristic of a biological model, but instead of using the usual round sphere, I used Mickey and Donald," he said. "The message was one of giving people image-jitters, of using common light figures in a heavier context."
Mr. Oppenheim said he was surprised by Disney's actions. "I didn't think anything would happen," he said. "I made the mock-up for 'Virus' four years ago and showed it all over the world. Disney has scared a lot of people, but I don't think they're going to get away with this one."
The developers aren't so sure. "We're right in the middle of what has become an awkward situation," said Robert Maguire, a partner at Maguire Thomas. "When we commissioned the piece we thought we had clearance from the outset. Now we're looking for a reasonable solution."
But Walt Disney does not appear to be backing down. "Unless the sculpture is removed," Mr. Deegan said, "I'm sure our lawyers will end up meeting Mr. Oppenheim in court."
 
Matisse Auctions
 Art collectors can be a shameless lot, at least when the opportunity to capitalize on the good fortune of a museum show seems likely. This week, Christie's announced yet another Matisse being sold right off the walls of the Museum of Modern Art's blockbuster "Henri Matisse: A Retrospective." That makes four Matisses from the show that are scheduled to be auctioned in two days in New York -- three on Nov. 10 at Sotheby's and one the next night at Christie's.
It has been years since even one important Matisse came on the block, but now sellers are hoping that the show's rave reviews will help inflate the Matisse market. "There probably is a selling advantage to having the picture in the show," said Nancy Whyte, head of Impressionist and modern art at Christie's in New York.
The work Christie's is selling, "Harmony in Yellow," from 1928, depicts a highly patterned room with a model resting her head on a table. The owner was identified only as a Swiss collector. Christie's estimates the work will bring $5 million to $7 million. It will leave the museum for only two days, Nov. 10 and 11, then return to the exhibition, which runs through Jan. 12.
Sotheby's three Matisses -- one from the estate of the dress designer Mollie Parnis Livingston, another from the estate of Wright Ludington, a founder of the Santa Barbara (Calif.) Museum of Art, and the third from the Everhart Museum in Scranton, Pa. -- will be at the auction house's 72d Street headquarters from Nov. 7 through 10.
Why does Sotheby's get to show its paintings for twice as long as Christie's? "That's a good question," Ms. Whyte said.
John Elderfield, the curator of the Matisse retrospective, said, "It's my job to make it as difficult as possible to let pictures leave the exhibition." In the case of the paintings being sold at Sotheby's, Mr. Elderfield said, allowing the works to leave the museum was part of the original loan agreement. That was not true for "Harmony in Yellow," he said.
"I cannot stop people from selling pictures, but we're trying to preserve our status as a tax-exempt, not-for-profit institution," Mr. Elderfield said. "The owner of 'Harmony in Yellow' wants his work in the show, but at the same time he realizes that now is the time to sell. It puts us in a very difficult position."
 
Sale in India
 Sotheby's tentacles are reaching further and further beyond its conventional venues. Four years ago, the auction house held its first sale in Russia. Last week, New Delhi was the scene of a two-day sale, Sotheby's first venture in India.
On Oct. 8 and 9, at the Taj Palace Inter-Continental Hotel, an array of art and objects, from European and Oriental paintings to Art Nouveau and Art Deco bronzes, were offered. "In 1989 we had a successful charity sale, which revealed a demand for Sotheby's in India," said Julian Thompson, the chairman of Sotheby's in Asia.
But judging from the results, the demand wasn't great enough. Sales for the two days totaled $1.9 million; 40 percent of the goods remained unsold.
"Different sessions had different results," Mr. Thompson said. Among the popular items were Indian and Asian sculptures and other works of art. Decorative objects like Oriental and European ceramics, bronzes, gold and silver, and European enamel boxes, clocks and watches did well.
What fared poorly were the 19th- and 20th-century European paintings. "The paintings were problematic," Mr. Thompson conceded. "When you're putting together sales in a new location, it's not always easy to get the consignments one wants."
But Sotheby's plans more forays into India. "There's a new group of buyers and a flourishing economy," Mr. Thompson said. "We'll be holding another sale here next year. And hopefully, next time it will be easier."
 
More Grooms
 "Grand Central Station," a construction by the ever-popular sculptor Red Grooms, is on the cover of this week's New Yorker. Mr. Grooms is the first big-name New York artist whose work has been on the magazine's cover since Saul Steinberg.
"He's someone I've always wanted to use," said Lee Lorenz, who has been The New Yorker's art editor since 1973. "While this is simply a photograph of a piece, Red is working on some original covers for us, too."
Mr. Lorenz said the magazine, whose new editor is Tina Brown, plans to feature other well-known artists but he declined to name them. "This is a high-security operation," he said. "And Tina wants us to remain tight-lipped."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walt Disney is objecting to Dennis Oppenheim's sculpture "Virus," which was recently installed in a California office complex. (Angela Cumberbirch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO; CHRISTIE'S; MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); SOTHEBY'S ; NEW YORKER (MAGAZINE) WALT DISNEY CO (90%); NEW YORK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO; CHRISTIE'S; MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); SOTHEBY'S ; NEW YORKER (MAGAZINE) NEW YORK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SANTA MONICA (CALIF); INDIA UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ART; SCULPTURE SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); LAWYERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; OPPENHEIM, DENNIS; MATISSE, HENRI (1869-1954) ; GROOMS, RED MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



538 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Lost Moment

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
In the inspiring sweep and profundity of the great October Debates, I can see why the one moment that haunts me was lost, disappearing with no notice at all.
It could not possibly compete. It could not arouse the admiring chuckle-chuckle Ross Perot gets when he covers his face with that Will Rogers mask. It could not make us purse our lips in criticism of Al Gore for daring to be serious or President Bush for putting his hand in his pocket. And we had to consider the engrossing question: Was Bill Clinton really sincere when he denied being a liar and a traitor? 
 Still, since that moment concerns the lives of 16 to 20 million human creatures living in hell, it might be worth the moment or two of attention that it has not received.
It happened in the first Presidential debate. The issue was American relations with Communist China. That touches inescapably on the export of the products of the slave labor camps, which are an official and central part of the Communist economy.
Mr. Rogers just skipped the slave labor thing, folks. He did say that while we should not cozy up to tyrants, remember that China one day would become our largest trading partner. And he announced usefully that China was a large country, broken into many provinces.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush did deal with the matter. Unfortunately they both got it wrong. They gave a free pass to the slave masters.
The Governor has been strong and American in his condemnation of the Chinese Communists. His badge is Beijing's horror of his election. He has stood consistently with the democratic dissidents. Unlike Mr. Bush, he backs economic penalties to push Beijing into granting its subjects a few social and political decencies.
But in the debate, Mr. Clinton said Beijing had finally agreed to stop sending us products of prison labor, because the Administration was pushed into "doing something about it." Mr. Bush swiftly accepted credit.
The fact is that an August "memorandum of understanding" that is supposed to persuade Beijing not to export slave labor goods to America is just a gimmick that Beijing can use to cover up the vast slave labor industry. Among the people who think that are Chinese freedom fighters and members of Congress, both parties, left, right and center, who refuse to turn their back on them.
The "understanding" prettifies the whole vicious system by speaking only of "prison" labor as if it were all a matter of criminals decently convicted and decently kept in prisons where they had to earn their keep.
In reality Beijing exports goods ranging from shirts to diesel engines, made in camps specifically designed to be factories. Manpower costs are zero. Political prisoners, criminals and people just rounded up are sentenced in kangaroo courts to expandable terms. They labor dawn to dark, year after year, beaten and starved to meet killing quotas.
And when they are "released" millions are forced to remain on the site of the slave camps, continuing to work under virtually the same condition; an evil mockery of "freedom."
Representative Nancy Pelosi, the San Francisco Democrat and a perennial flower in the garden of Congressional human rights activists, states the moral truth: The very use of the term "prison labor" is a concession to Beijing.
Then: Beijing can decide which small part of its gulag falls within even the "prison" definition. Conveniently, most of the gulag is listed by Beijing, straight face, not as prisons but "reform through labor" camps. Institutions of self-betterment, kind of.
Exactly one member of the American customs service is permitted to be stationed in Beijing to look out for "prison" exports. Human rights or Red Cross groups remain barred from the camps.
Most sickening of all: The memorandum contains no denunciation of slave labor, calls for no changes, reforms or regrets. Nothing -- no drop of water for the tortured.
The U.S. may not be able to pressure Beijing to eliminate slave labor because it is so central to Communist economics. We will not know until we try the economic penalties Congress and Governor Clinton support, and which Bushbaker keeps vetoing.
Until then I will buy shirts made elsewhere, where there is no chance that they are woven with blood and tears.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA ; UNITED STATES CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; DEBATING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICAL PRISONERS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; SLAVERY ; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRISONS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (72%); GOVERNORS (69%); SENTENCING (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (67%); TRENDS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (61%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



539 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Ad Campaign;
Clinton: Attacking Bush's Record

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
The Clinton campaign began broadcasting this 30-second commercials yesterday. Officials said it would be used for about a week in 20 markets, but they would not say where.
ON THE SCREEN -- Opens with "1988" on a white background. Images of President Bush at assorted public appearances four years ago, including the 1988 Republican convention.
 
 After each statement Mr. Bush, his image freezes and the narrator, whose words also appear on screen, disputes the President's remarks. Ends with these words on screen: "We can't afford four more years."
PRODUCER -- Clinton/Gore Creative Team.
TELEVISION SCRIPT -- Announcer: "1988"
President Bush: "We will be able to produce 30 million jobs in the next eight years."
Announcer: "Under George Bush, more private sector jobs have been lost than have been created."
Bush: "And I am an environmentalist."
Announcer: "The Sierra Club says Bush allowed his Administration to quote 'gut clean air rules.' "
Bush: "I want to be the education President."
Announcer: "George Bush tried to cut college aid for families making over $20,000 a year."
Bush: "I want a kinder and gentler----"
Announcer: "Uh-uh. We can't afford four more years."
ACCURACY -- Clinton campaign backs is arguments with statistics from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and House Budget Committee.
 The Sierra Club, source of the quotation on clean air rules, has long criticized the Administration's environmental policies.
 While it is true that the Administration sought to cut college aid for families making more than $20,000, it also sought to provide more grant money for students with family incomes below $20,000, a move welcomed by financial aid experts.
SCORECARD -- This commercial seeks to drive home a point the Democrats have emphasized in debates: that the economy is in trouble and another four years of the Bush Administration would not turn things around. The ad also seeks to portray Mr. Bush as not fulfilling his 1988 pledges. Making the President himself the central voice of the ad tends to disguise its harsh attack.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SIERRA CLUB (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ADVERTISING; ELECTION ISSUES; TELEVISION US PRESIDENTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); FAMILY (88%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BUDGETS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); DRAMA LITERATURE (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); STATISTICS (64%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



540 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Misses Chances In Currency Scuffles

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your excellent explanation of the British pound, the German mark and why a currency crisis erupted (front page, Sept. 17) spells out the technical reasons, but does not dwell on the economic philosophical reasons or matters of perception, which are all important in an unregulated market. Two crucial points are unaddressed: 
 (1) Most countries in the European Monetary System are interested in a stable currency, for which they rely on their own usually well-developed industrial policy. To the Reagan-Bush Administrations, such ideas have been heresy.
For the last 12 months the Bush Administration, except for some perfunctory noises, has calmly watched Helmut Kohl's German Government make its European partners pay for German unification. The increasing interest spread caused a devaluing dollar, benefiting many large American financial institutions. At the same time the Administration hoped for increased exports to offset the slowdown in the United States economy.
(2) The much-vaunted strength of the mark is a perception one has to question. A relatively unimpressive sum, by United States bailout standards, was needed for integrating East and West Germany, yet German interest rates had to be more than doubled to curb inflation; even so, foreign money had to be brought in.
During the last 12 months the Bush Administration has failed to take advantage of an excellent opportunity to challenge the myth of the strong mark and thereby strengthen United States economic world leadership, maintain the value of our currency and allow maneuvering room to stimulate the flagging United States economy.
 
BERNARD L. HOHENBERG
 New York, Sept. 27, 1992
The writer is in foreign trade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (56%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); 

PERSON: HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (56%); HELMUT KOHL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992



541 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: 'Yes' to One Canada? If Jays Win the Series, Stay Tuned

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, Oct. 16

 BODY:
A surge of national pride as a baseball team from Canada plays in the World Series for the first time could give a sorely needed lift to the beleaguered "yes" camp in the country's divisive national unity referendum.
In a close political contest, some poll takers and political analysts here say, the national euphoria may be just enough to tip the scales to "yes" on Oct. 26, the day of the national vote. That would be the day after Game 7, if the Series, which begins on Saturday night, goes the full distance. 
 The Toronto Blue Jays' 9-2 rout of the Oakland Athletics on Wednesday gave Toronto its first American League pennant. The Jays will face the Atlanta Braves.
 
Canadian Soul-Searching
 Canadians are going through one of their periodic bouts of national soul-searching. They have been asked to vote "yes" or "no" on a complex constitutional agreement reached unanimously by political leaders of all major parties on Aug. 28 in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island.
Although a "no" victory could make it more difficult for English and French Canada to live together and might even lead to a final rupture, the opponents of the accord now have the edge for a number of reasons: distrust of politicians, dislike of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, regional rivalry, criticism of individual sections of the accord that fail to meet demands of influential interest groups, a general malaise.
The most recent poll by The Globe and Mail found 45 percent of voters in the country as a whole in the "no" camp, against 36 percent on the "yes" side, with 16 percent undecided.
"People are terribly grumpy, and this might just change the tone of the last 10 days and put the constitutional debate in a more sane perspective," said Patrick Gossage, a Toronto communications consultant who used to be press secretary to former Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau. "It's a positive and reinforcing distraction for the 'yes' side."
In British Columbia, Ray Perrault, a provincial legislator who has led the drive to bring major league baseball to Vancouver, said the Series appearance will be a good thing for all Canadians.
"This is going to set a good mood in the country," he said. "Baseball fans from Quebec will be cheering this along with baseball fans in western Canada. They're going to bury their prejudice."
Canada is wild about the Jays, even though there are no Canadians on the team. The Globe and Mail proudly spoke of the "all-Canadian Jays" who for the next week "are as Canadian as fiddleheads, block heaters and, um, Alexander Graham Bell." Fiddleheads are ferns eaten as greens mainly in eastern Canada, block heaters keep car engines warm on cold winter nights, and Bell was once a resident of Brantford, Ontario.
Prime Minister Mulroney, campaigning hard for the "yes" forces, was quick to link the pennant victory with the referendum.
 
Battered Canadian Dollar
 "The Toronto Blue Jays just won the pennant, and on Oct. 26 the 'yes' is going to win our World Series," he said Wednesday.
But at "yes" headquarters in Ottawa, there was a little reluctance to be seen trying to capitalize on the sports victory. Trailing in the most recent polls, officials there feared they would be perceived as graspers of straws.
"Canadian spirits are buoyed by the fact that for the first time in our history we're playing in a World Series, but I wouldn't want to go further than that," according to a cautious statement from Cindy Boucher, press secretary to the Canada Committee. That is the umbrella organization representing the three main political parties, leading organizations of indigenous peoples and other groups and individuals backing the Charlottetown pact.
But baseball has already figured in some of the advertising for the "yes" side and is likely to be even more prominent in the coming week. One television commercial this week showed a batter striking out, suggesting that a "no" vote will put Canada "out" as a nation and that therefore people should vote "yes."
One of the themes of the "yes" campaign has been that gloom and doom face the nation if voters turn thumbs down on Charlottetown. Financial markets have given that view tacit support by battering the Canadian dollar, which in turn has led to a sharp increase in interest rates, making economic conditions worse for everyone.
But the no side counters that nothing dramatic will happen with a "no" victory and that the markets' fury has been unleashed by intemperate, imprudent statements by "yes" supporters, led by the Prime Minister.
Poll takers and political scientists said they thought the Blue Jays' pennant victory could induce some of the undecided to vote yes, in Quebec and English Canada.
"The Blue Jay element is there on the 'yes' side, certainly," said Nelson Wiseman, political science professor at the University of Toronto. "As in the U.S., baseball is avidly watched here and followed."
The senior vice president of Gallup Canada, Lorne Bozinoff, said he thought it would take "a miracle" for the 'yes' side to turn the referendum around.
But he estimated that if the Jays win on the last day of the Series, that might be worth "an extra point or so" in the percentage of "yes" votes, so that if the final count were in the 50-49 percent range, that could make a critical difference.
"It puts people in a good mood across the country, no doubt about that," he said.
Quebecers, who have their own major league team, the Montreal Expos, shared the joy. The news was page 1 in all the papers. Not even Le Devoir, a highbrow journal that usually ignores sports, could resist a photo of the reveling Jays on page 1. There were banner headlines in La Presse, Quebec's largest paper.
Claude Andre, political editor of La Presse, said, "People here will cheer for the Blue Jays and say 'Hurray' for the Canadian team."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (78%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TORONTO BLUE JAYS GLOBE & MAIL (50%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (83%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (83%); OAKLAND A'S (57%); ATLANTA BRAVES (56%); ATLANTA BRAVES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO BLUE JAYS TORONTO BLUE JAYS (83%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (83%); OAKLAND A'S (57%); ATLANTA BRAVES (56%); ATLANTA BRAVES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (78%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; CONSTITUTIONS; BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES BASEBALL (94%); REFERENDUMS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); SPORTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



542 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: EUROPEAN LEADERS RENEW UNITY VOW IN SPITE OF STRAIN

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, England, Oct. 16

 BODY:
Leaders of the European Community pledged today to continue to push for a treaty to bring about political and monetary union, but economic strains continued to pull their nations' economies further apart.
The leaders held an unusual summit meeting to try to reassure Europeans that their drive for unity would not dilute separate European national identities and to repair the damage done by recent turbulence on the European financial markets to the monetary system. 
 Britain, the host of the meeting, has always been skeptical about the goal of a common currency in Europe, but today the idea seemed to recede even further into the distance.
 
Interest Rate at 8%
 Even as Prime Minister John Major was telling his colleagues here that he wanted "to get the Community back on track to achieve a period of stability," his Government lowered the Bank of England's basic interest rate by a full percentage point to 8 percent, and the pound sterling resumed its downward slide against the value of the powerful German mark and the dollar.
The lowering of the British interest rate was further evidence of the gulf between the economic needs of the individual nations and the community's professed desire for greater economic unity. [Page 4.]
 
Aid to Yugoslavia Approved
 The drop in the value of the pound was a reminder of Mr. Major's embarrassment in being forced to pull the pound out of the system of fixed exchange rates making up the European monetary system. The system was created to be a precursor to a common currency in Europe as early as 1997.
In other actions, the European leaders agreed to speed up aid to refugees in Yugoslavia over the winter, providing $288 million for immediate purchase of 120,000 tons of food, plus medicine, temporary shelters and 40 trucks. They also discussed the negotiations for a new global trade agreement, agreeing to continue talks with the United States in Toronto this weekend.
Mr. Major called today's meeting after last month's monetary turbulence, which erupted just before a French referendum on the treaty on political and monetary union signed by European Community leaders in Maastricht, the Netherlands, last December. The French narrowly approved the treaty after a heated campaign in which voters' concerns over a loss of national identity were voice.
Though a single market without internal tariff barriers will go into effect as scheduled next Jan. 1, uncertainty continues over how much further toward union Europe will move, since the Maastricht treaty cannot go into effect unless all 12 countries ratify it. Danish voters rejected the treaty by a narrow margin last June.
The European leaders reaffirmed their intention today to press ahead with European union without renegotiating the treaty, but in a statement called the "Birmingham Declaration" they tried to answer some of the concerns about it as well.
"The Community must develop together as twelve, on the basis of the Maastricht treaty, while respecting, as the treaty does, the interests and diversity of member states," the leaders said in their final communique. The leaders also agreed to give the Danish Parliament and Government until mid-December to decide how they propose to ratify the treaty in light of the negative outcome of their June referendum.
The European leaders also reaffirmed the goals of the treaty, which lays down strict criteria for economic and monetary convergence before monetary union can occur. But many European bankers, particularly in Germany, the community's dominant economy, believe that even if the treaty is ratified, monetary union will not be achievable for many years.
"I don't believe that at all," Chancellor Helmut Kohl said after the meeting, referring to the doubts about achieving monetary union. "There have always been periods of defeatism, but we've always managed to go forward step by step despite them."
Other leaders today also voiced optimism, though in chanceries all around Europe, many of their subordinate officials now say that the Maastricht treaty was a step too far, too soon, one that all European Governments failed to explain convincingly to their voters.
"The Maastricht treaty will bring direct benefits to individual citizens," the leaders said in their Birmingham declaration. "All of us must do more to make this clear." They vowed also to "make the Community more open" and "to ensure a better informed public debate on its activities."
The meetings today were held behind the closed glass walls of the new Birmingham conference center, in the heart of one of Britain's most battered industrial cities, though Mr. Major had proposed letting television cameras in for the opening statements and a discussion by the Foreign Ministers.
 
Reports on Mitterrand's Health
 The BBC reported that President Francois Mitterrand took ill today at the meeting, but the Associated Press quoted French officials as saying the reports were untrue. Mr. Mitterrand has recently been treated for prostate cancer.
Answering widespread fears that further movement toward union would come at the expense of member states' national identity, the leaders agreed that "greater unity can be achieved without excessive centralization."
Mr. Major, clearly the European leader who is now under the most acutepolitical pressure, affirmed tonight that he would submit the Maastricht treaty to Parliament for ratification soon after the House of Commons reconvenes next week.
He originally wanted the summit meeting to discuss the strains in the European monetary system that caused Britain to pull out last month. Britain's withdrawal came after Germany refused to lower its own interest rates because of fears by its independent central bank that such a move would trigger inflation in Germany.
Mr. Major did not even tell the other leaders this morning what the Bank of England was about to announce. "The question of British interest rates wasn't discussed," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister John Major, left, said he wanted "to get the community back on track to achieve a period of stability." He and President Francois Mitterrand arrived in Birmingham, England, yesterday for a meeting. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (93%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); DENMARK (79%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (93%); 

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; CREDIT; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BRITISH POUND (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EURO (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); TRENDS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); REFUGEES (67%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); APPROVALS (65%); REFERENDUMS (61%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



543 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The U.S. trade deficit widened sharply in August, to $9 billion, as American exports suffered their biggest drop in five years, the Commerce Department reported, while imports fell moderately. In another dismal economic report, the Government said that industrial output fell two-tenths of 1 percent in September. [Page 41.]
President Bush was to unveil a plan to cut car insurance premiums nationwide in a New Jersey campaign speech, his aides said, but he became so rattled by jeering Clinton supporters that he railed against the Democrat, accusing him of evading the draft. [1.]
Insurance regulators are intrigued by the President's bold plan, which is intended to drive most auto injury claims out of court and pare individual premiums by 20 to 30 percent. [41.]
Ross Perot contended a $754 billion package of tax increases and spending cuts would produce a budget surplus in six years, during a half-hour telecast for which he paid NBC $150,000. [7.]
 
Companies
Pratt & Whitney said it would lay off 3,600 workers in Connecticut over the next eight months because of a steep drop in orders for its aircraft engines from commercial airlines. [1.]
G.M. projected a large loss in an S.E.C. filing, around $845 million for the third quarter, or 20 percent better than the $1.06 billion deficit a year earlier. [41.]
Barry Diller denied he was negotiating to buy NBC. Shares of parent G.E. rose $1.125 to $76.25, but analysts cited its recent strong earnings, rather than the published report involving the former Fox chairman's interest in the network. [41.]
American Airlines' Robert L. Crandall is winning praise from analysts, travel agents and airline consultants for his efforts to institute a new fare structure, although he himself told analysts in New York that the four-tier structure was a failure. [41.]
Eastman Kodak said it would take charges of $140 million against third-quarter earnings because of costs associated with selling businesses and with an early-retirement program. [43.]
Texas Instruments reported a sharp improvement in earnings for the third quarter, with its chip unit posting its first profit since the last quarter of 1989. The company earned $57 million, or 58 cents a share, in contrast to a loss of $113 million a year ago. [43.]
 
 International
European leaders pledged to continue working for political and monetary union, as economic strains continued to pull them further apart. Britain, the host country, lowered interest rates a full percentage point to 8 percent, sending the pound down. [1.]
Britain's rate cut was clear evidence of the wide gulf between the European nations' individual economic needs and their professed desire for greater economic integration. [4.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip stocks closed nearly unchanged after a recovery in bond prices rescued the market from earlier losses of more than 30 points. The Dow industrials slipped 0.27 to close at 3,174.41. [44.]
The negative economic news helped bond prices, but they still fell as traders reacted to fears of the Federal deficit. [44.]
The dollar advanced against most major currencies except the yen after the Bank of England cut key lending rates and traders sold the pound. [51.]
Oil prices slipped 5 cents a barrel, as traders cashed in profits from two days of gains. [51.]
 
Today's Columns
Straphangers could get a tax break -- one of several tax provisions in the energy bill that President Bush is expected to sign. But deductions for employer-provided parking spaces would be capped at $155. John H. Cushman Jr.: Your Taxes. [42.]
Dried-out seaweed is used to fight fires in a compound patented by a small California company, taking the kelp left over after algin is removed. Edmund L. Andrews: Patents. [42.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (55%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); PRATT & WHITNEY (55%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); AIRLINES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (77%); INSURANCE (76%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); BONDS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (72%); EURO (71%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); EARLY RETIREMENT (67%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (67%); MONETARY UNIONS (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARRY DILLER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



544 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Independent;
In Half-Hour, Perot Details Plan for Cutting Deficit

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Oct. 16

 BODY:
With his campaign for President still lagging far behind his Republican and Democratic rivals, Ross Perot took to the airwaves tonight to lay out his plans for eliminating the Federal budget deficit and radically changing Federal elections laws.
Using a half-hour block of time he bought from NBC for $150,000, the Dallas billionaire detailed a $754 billion package of tax increases, spending cuts and additional Federal spending that he said would produce a Federal budget surplus in six years and would spur economic growth. The format of tonight's show was similar to his last 30-minute broadcast last week when he detailed what he saw as the problems wrought by the $4 trillion national debt. 
 Mr. Perot has often spoken of the "shared sacrifices" that his plans would require of Americans, but this was the first time he has publicly discussed just how painful those sacrifices might be.
Seated at a polished wood table, Mr. Perot used a stack of more than 20 hand-held charts to illustrate his points. This time, however, the writing on his charts was much larger, in response, he said, to viewer complaints about the small-sized print on his charts in his last program.
 
'This One Does Add Up'
 In providing specifics of his deficit-reduction package Mr. Perot chastised both President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton for what he said were, in essence, bogus plans for ending Federal red ink.
"The Wall Street Journal asked the President and Governor Clinton after they looked at their economic plans and said, 'Can either one of you folks add?' " Mr. Perot said during the broadcast. "This one does add up. It is real."
Almost all of the proposals outlined by Mr. Perot tonight are in his book, "United We Stand: How We Can Take Back Our Country." But tonight was the first time the independent candidate had presented his plan in person and in his own folksy style. By choosing to present the plan on his own 30-minute program, and by refraining, as he did Thursday night, to speak of it in any detail in the Presidential debates, Mr. Perot has, so far, avoided having to answer questions about it.
Under his plan, Mr. Perot would cut Federal spending on optional programs by $315 billion and automatic spending that benefits certain classes of people, like the elderly or the poor, by $268 billion. He would raise taxes on individuals by $293 billion and on businesses by $49 billion. Changes in benefit programs, including higher Medicare premiums and increased taxes on benefits for some Social Security recipients, would produce an additional savings of $268 billion, Mr. Perot said.
To spur the economy, Mr. Perot proposed increasing Federal spending by $109 billion and cutting certain taxes, including some capital gains taxes, by $62 billion.
 
Pledge to Be Flexible
 Responding to criticism that his plan was too harsh a jolt for an already troubled economy, Mr. Perot said he would be flexible and would modify his program if it hampered economic growth. "If common sense and the interest of the American people dictates slowing down, we will slow down," he said. "But the thing you can't do, is do nothing."
But cutting the deficit and invigorating the economy were not the only subjects Mr. Perot took up. Much of his presentation was devoted to his ideas for overhauling the political process and what he termed making the Federal Government more responsive to average citizens.
"We must make adequate television time available in equal amounts to competing candidates," he said, though he did not mention whether such a proposal would extend to minor parties like the Communist Party or the Libertarian Party.
Mr. Perot proposed limiting political contributions to $1,000 and eliminating "all possibilities of special interests giving large sums of money to candidates." He emphasized that "we must leave no loopholes." He said he would require members of Congress and the President to turn over unused campaign contributions to the Treasury and he proposed requiring that pay increases for Congress, the President and Federal employees be subject to voter approval.
"That'll keep their heads clear on who they work for," he said.
He also said he would eliminate all of the perquisites, including free haircuts, use of a gymnasium and free prescription drugs, currently enjoyed by members of Congress and the executive branch, and he would subject Congress to the provisions of Federal civil rights and occupational safety laws.
While a number of Mr. Perot's suggestions are ones that have been advocated in the past by government reformers, some experts say they might be unconstitutional.
While, Mr. Perot is critical of both Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton for offering economic plans that do not add up, there are some elements of his program where his math seems shaky.
For example, Mr. Perot suggested that $268 billion could be saved by overhauling entitlement programs. Among his ideas are increases in Medicare taxes for those earning more than $130,000 a year, higher Medicare premiums, an increase in the taxes on Social Security benefits for upper-income recipients and a 33 percent reduction in cost of living increases over five years for military and Federal pensions.
But, under Mr. Perot's plan, $141 billion in the savings from changing entitlements comes from containing the increase in health care costs. Yet, Mr. Perot offered no detailed plan on how to achieve this.
 
Plan for Better Health Care
 During his television show, the Dallas businessman noted that Germany spends 8 percent and Japan spends 6.5 percent of their gross national product on health care, while the United States spends 12 percent of its G.N.P. "We can save money, have world-class health care," Mr. Perot said. "Or if all else fails, just copy the countries in the other part of the world that have better health care than we do at a lower cost."
In his book, Mr. Perot makes the same claim of a $141 billion savings as a result of health care changes. But the only plan he outlined for short-term savings was to say that "various health-care experts and representatives of affected groups should have a series of work sessions with Government officials" to develop a strategy.
For the long term, Mr. Perot's program seems to be more bromides than concrete proposals. For example he called for such things as the establishment of "an independent Federal agency" to oversee cost containment efforts and the "reaching of a consensus on a set of principles for reform."
He also advocated a "basic package of universal coverage and appropriate tax treatment of health benefits." But he did not say how much such a package would cost and how it would be financed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot illustrating his plans to balance the budget last night during his 30-minute commercial on NBC. (NBC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC) WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICAL ADVERTISING ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); MEDICARE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ELECTION LAW (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; HOLMES, STEVEN A BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



545 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Democrats;
Budget Deficit Is the Thorn In Clinton's Economic Plan

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton's campaign is struggling with a tricky economic puzzle: how to give the economy a quick boost without increasing the Federal budget deficit.
Campaigning today in Richmond, Mr. Clinton said he wanted to figure out some new policies "to bump this economy some" without widening the deficit. 
 But concerned that it may not be possible to spur job growth without a short-term jump in the deficit, Mr. Clinton's economics advisers are debating whether to urge him to raise spending and embrace new tax breaks for business if he is elected.
Even to discuss the issue in public is risky because the mere mention of measures that might increase the deficit could frighten voters as well as financial markets that are worried about inflation.
 
Deficit-Cutting Program
 Campaign officials said today that if continued slow growth pushed a Clinton Administration to increase spending or approve tax credits to stimulate business investment, the effort would be coupled with a long-term program to cut the budget deficit.
"If the economy ever got so weak that stimulus was needed, it would only be done in combination with very specific, defined hard-deficit reduction plans," Gene Sperling, the Clinton campaign's economic issues coordinator, said in a telephone interview.
Mr. Clinton's advisers are snagged over what is the best advice to give him on fiscal stimulus because they, like many of the nation's leading economists, are puzzled over whether the economy is picking up steam or is dead in the water.
"A lot of people are talking about stimulus now because they think the economy is deteriorating again, not just stuck," said Robert Shapiro, a Clinton adviser who is at the Democratic Leadership Council, an organization of centrist Democrats. "I think the jury is still out on that."
Today in Richmond, Mr. Clinton was careful to steer clear of advocating a stimulus program that would widen the deficit.
"There may be some way to increase investment without increasing the deficit," he said. "We have to keep these things in very careful balance."
He noted that he was "absolutely" concerned about the harmful effects that a short-term stimulus package could have on financial markets if it was perceived as adding to the deficit.
 
Goal to Stimulate Investment
 Perhaps mindful of President Bush's repeated accusation that he plans to raise taxes sharply, Mr. Clinton also made a point today of saying that he wanted to find new ways to cut spending to clear the way for more tax cuts to stimulate investment, including an investment tax credit.
In the Presidential debate Thursday night, he said it was more important to stimulate the torpid economy than to take stern measures that would reduce the Federal deficit, because he said this could abort the nation's weak economic recovery. But he has stopped short of embracing traditional Democratic notions of creating jobs through increased deficit spending.
Mr. Sperling, the Clinton official, who is a former aide to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York and to Michael S. Dukakis in his 1988 Presidential campaign, said of the Arkansas Governor: "He has gotten criticisms from people who say he should reduce the deficit faster, even if it hurts growth in the short term, and he has gotten criticisms from people who say, 'Ignore the deficit so you can get a little economic kick in the short term.' He has resisted pressure on both sides."
Clinton campaign officials said one idea to create jobs without increasing the deficit was to speed spending of money authorized under the existing Transportation Act. They also favor speeding spending on the $20 billion that Mr. Clinton plans to invest annually on highways, bridges and other public works. Clinton officials say this spending would not increase the deficit because it is part of the Governor's overall economic plan, which promises to cut the deficit in half in four years.
Mr. Sperling said that if Mr. Clinton was elected, Clinton aides would tell states and cities to get ready to move ahead in early 1993 with highway projects that have been shelved because of lack of cash. This, he said, could put people back to work and raise consumer confidence, thus giving the economy needed momentum.
 
Results Hardly Noticeable
 But Government economists say that spending money for public works projects early in the year instead of later would have no important effect on the economy. "You're talking about spending a few billion in March that you would spend anyway in July in a $6 trillion economy," said one economist, who asked not to be identified. "That would not give you very many more jobs, if any."
In its own effort to stimulate the economy without raising the deficit, the Bush Administration this year advanced the spending for airport construction, rural housing, waste treatment plants and several other projects.
Budget officers said the result was hardly noticeable.
Robert Reich, a Harvard professor who is a longtime adviser to Mr. Clinton, has said recently that he would support increased deficit spending to create jobs if the economy remained weak into January. But other advisers fear that increased deficit spending could alienate voters and send chills through the nation's financial markets.
Talking about the possibility of pump-priming, Roger Altman, an investment banker who is a top economic adviser to Mr. Clinton, said: "I think that depends on conditions in the economy over the next three months. You have to be very respectful of the need to reduce the deficit over the medium- and long-term and you have to be very respectful of the financial markets' sensitivities."
One concern is that a higher deficit, by creating fears of inflation, would push up long-term interest rates, undermining recovery by hurting home building and business investment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton acknowledging cheers last night at a rally at Dilliard University in New Orleans. Next to Mr. Clinton was Senator Al Gore. (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES BUDGET DEFICITS (94%); BUDGETS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



546 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Widens on Export Fall

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit widened sharply in August, to $9 billion, as American exports suffered their biggest drop in five years, the Commerce Department reported today. Imports fell moderately.
A separate set of data released today showed industrial output falling two-tenths of 1 percent in September. The decline was the third in the last four months for this indicator of activity at factories, mines and utilities, which together account for about 30 percent of the economy. 
 Both reports were the latest in a procession of economic setbacks. The trade figures were so weak that some analysts predicted that gross domestic product for the third quarter, to be reported on Oct. 27, would be barely positive after a quite modest 1.5 percent rate for the second quarter.
 
Overseas Demand Weakens
 The worsened trade picture seems to have been caused mainly by the weakening in the economies of American customers in Europe and by lethargy in the Japanese business climate as well. The gloomy report came as European leaders met in Britain to seek a breakthrough on long-stymied negotiations to overhaul the world trading system.
Though the figures gyrate from month to month, the report also tended to undermine the Bush Administration's contentions that the nation was transforming itself into an export superpower.
"Last night during the debate President Bush sounded out of touch when he said that exports save the economy," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the Missouri Democrat who is the House majority leader. "The President's so-called export engine is running out of gas."
Michael J. Boskin, chief economic adviser to Mr. Bush, was traveling, his office said, and was unavailable to comment.
 
Broad-Based Decline
 The slump in exports was $2.3 billion, or 6.1 percent, to $35.5 billion. It was registered in most product categories and with a wide array of countries.
"This is symptomatic of the worldwide economic slowdown we observed last summer," said Barry Rogstad, head of the American Business Conference, an association of rapidly growing companies.
He said the trade deficit is not likely to improve soon, with import growth probably exceeding export growth in the coming year because economic recovery would come earlier to the United States than to its trading partners.
For August, imports, at $44.5 billion, declined about $600 million, or 1.3 percent, from the peak of $45.1 billion reached in July.
 
Some Figures Revised
 The month-to-month deterioration of $1.7 billion was enlarged by the fact that recalculation of July's deficit brought it down to $7.3 billion compared with the $7.8 billion originally reported. Still, August's $9 billion merchandise deficit -- services, tourism and the like are excluded -- was the highest since November 1990, which had been the last of five straight months to register $9 billion or more.
The dive in exports was particularly evident in a $900 million drop for industrial supplies and materials and a $700 million drop in capital goods. But automotive products, consumer goods and foods and beverages also fell by $200 million each.
Among imports, the biggest change was a $300 million decline in industrial supplies and materials, the report also showed.
By specific product, exports of raw tobacco fell $160 million, but this was largely offset by a $125 million increase in foreign sales of manufactured tobacco products.
When frequently recurring seasonal factors are excluded, the deficit widened far less -- to $9.9 billion from July's revised $9.6 billion. This is the basis on which geographic breakdowns are reported, and a vast improvement was shown in trade with Western Europe, as a $1.1 billion July deficit shriveled to less than $100 million in August.
Still, Patrick J. Moriarty, chief investment officer at Bank Julius Baer in New York, noted there was fresh evidence this week of faltering demand in Japan and Germany. "I don't see where the improvement's going to come from," he said.
 
A Mixed Picture

 
 The deficit with Japan narrowed $200 million, to $3.7 billion, but it more than doubled with Canada, to $825 million, and expanded by $400 million with the newly industrialized Asian countries of Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore and Hong Kong.
The nation's bill for imported crude oil eased $300 million in August, to $3.5 billion, as volume fell 17 million barrels and the price per barrel fell 22 cents, to $17.96.
The American surplus in advanced technology products slumped to $1.6 billion, from $2.1 billion in July and $2.3 billion in August 1991.
The industrial production data, compiled by the Federal Reserve, showed declines of four-tenths of 1 percent for factories and 1.2 percent at mines. Those drops were not fully offset by a 2.6 percent surge in output by the nation's utilities.
The overall output decline of two-tenths of 1 percent was only half as large as those of June and August, but analysts have become disheartened, especially since their hopes had been buoyed by an advance in July of eight-tenths of 1 percent.
 
A Fear of Stagnation
 Referring to both industrial production, considered a reliable coincident indicator, and the trade data, Norman Robertson, an economist at Mellon Bank, said: "This is very unsettling news. It raises the possibility of a longer period of stagnation than has been widely expected."
C. Fred Bergsten of the Institute of International Economics -- and an occasional adviser to Gov. Bill Clinton -- noted that a deterioration in trade had cut second-quarter economic growth in half and that if September figures showed no improvement the third quarter might register no growth at all.
The Fed's report showed that production of consumer durables eased last month, mainly because of a decline in goods for the home. Nondurables rose, however, with the aid of sharp increases in electricity and gasoline. Business equipment declined three-tenths of 1 percent after rising twice that much in August.
Assemblies of motor vehicles were at a 9.5 million rate for the third straight month as higher output of cars was offset by lower output of light trucks.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Balance of Trade" shows imports, exports and deficit, Sept. 1992-August 1992. (Source: Commerce Department)
 
"Capacity Utilization" shows total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted, August 1991-September 1992. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)
 
"Industrial Production" shows index of industrial production, seasonally adjusted, August 1991-September 1992. (Source: Commerce Department)
(pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (52%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (52%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; EUROPE; JAPAN UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EXPORT TRADE (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



547 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Congressional Races;
2 Women Take On Tough Incumbents

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

 BODY:
November's elections are sure to bring a sharp increase in the current total of 31 women in Congress. But defeating an incumbent is still the hardest way to get there, for a man or a woman, even in a year when the institution's popularity has sunk.
Most of the women likely to be elected are running in open seats, where the incumbent did not seek re-election, or in new House districts, created either to account for increased population or to give black or Hispanic voters a chance to control a district. 
 But other women hope to win uphill races against veteran lawmakers like Ron Mazzoli, a 22-year Kentucky Democrat, and Philip M. Crane, a 23-year Illinois Republican. Each challenger campaigns for abortion rights and labels her opponent as a typical obstacle to change.
 
Congress Itself Issue In Kentucky Battle
 Susan Stokes is running against a Congress she argues is so concerned with its own re-election that it is dominated by special interests and cannot cope with the deficit or the health-care crisis.
She also has an advantage few challengers can dream of: She is outspending a long-term incumbent. For her opponent, Mr. Mazzoli, is so far from being a captive of those special interests that he not only refuses to take money from political action committees, he takes no individual contributions of more than $100. He will probably be outspent, $325,000 to $225,000.
She uses much of her financial advantage on television advertisements that suggest he is part of the mess in Washington, as reflected in the House Bank affair and other scandals. Mr. Mazzoli had no overdrafts, but Ms. Stokes contends that while he is a man of "high integrity," he has done nothing to reform the Congress, and not much else either.
A former schoolteacher who was gerrymandered out of her seat in the State Legislature last December, Ms. Stokes, 49 years old, says she is a pro-choice Republican who does not want the Government involved in personal decisions, like abortion, or business decisions, like whether to grant employees family and medical leave.
Though she does not emphasize it, abortion is the critical issue that gets her a hearing from women and younger Democrats in the Third District, which gained some suburban Republicans in reapportionment but is still solidly Democratic.
Mr. Mazzoli, 59, tries to counter that appeal with endorsements from women who disagree with his all-out anti-abortion voting record but applaud his other generally liberal stands. He attacks Ms. Stokes for voting against an education reform package in the Legislature and opposing family leave legislation, and he says she has not matched his courage in supporting gun control.
And he works at rebuilding ties with unions he has sometimes opposed. He told electrical workers on Sunday that he wanted to be part of the Clinton-Gore revolution that would "squeeze the big guys out, put the little people back in."
And he argues that he, too, represents change in spurning big contributions from the "special interest money that is distorting American politics." Incumbency, he argues, is not a matter of being in office, but "a state of mind."
But Ms. Stokes argues that Congress has to be shaken up, has to get out of its old spending habits so it can find the money to solve serious problems. And, to a suburban book club, she defended her campaign's style: "Those are issues; those are not personal attacks. But we can't just talk about how nice I am and win this election."
Mr. Mazzoli was first elected in 1970 as an anti-war Democrat. In 1992, he says, "I smell change in the air." He is talking about a Democrat in the White House -- and hoping he's not also talking about a particular Republican in the House of Representatives.
 
Veteran Republican Challenged in Illinois
 On the surface, Sheila A. Smith is running a traditional challenger's campaign, saying her opponent is more interested in abstract theory and special interests than in the problems of the Eighth Congressional District, northwest of Chicago.
She argues that Representative Crane, a doctrinaire conservative, is so busy "looking at life through a rear-view mirror" that he has missed the point that business, government and labor have to work together.
But in what is probably the most Republican district in the state, Ms. Smith, 46, needs more to compete with an incumbent who never had a tough race before a tough primary in March. Her way to voters' attention is to talk about the small business she runs, Glowlite, which makes appliance bulbs.
And, like most female challengers in 1992, she hopes to win votes from the other party's women by supporting abortion rights. She contends that Mr. Crane is inconsistent if he wants less government everywhere else but favors laws limiting abortion.
Mr. Crane argues that the issue won't swing many votes. He told a forum last week, "I cannot condone the idea of abortion for convenience because suddenly you've got an opportunity to make a European trip and you don't want to do it pregnant."
But Mr. Crane, 59, has an anti-incumbent pitch of his own. He told his opponent in a cable-television debate Monday that "the most profound, significant change would be, for the first time in 38 years, to elect a Republican Congress." He doesn't talk about scandals like the one involving the House Bank as much as he does about the power House Democrats use to handcuff Republicans.
Arguing that the economy was ready to rebound, he told Ms. Smith: "Business inventories are down. Business debt is down. Personal debt is down. Inflation is down. Interest rates are down. And most important----"
"Jobs are down," she interrupted.
A onetime leader of the conservative movement who preached a return to the gold standard, Mr. Crane is less visible these days in Washington. But he insists he has served the generally affluent district by never voting for a tax increase.
Neither campaign is expected to spend much over $100,000. A third candidate, Joe Dillier, seems to have almost no support.
Ms. Smith came to this district only after the Democrats had fielded no primary candidate and she had seen signs of vulnerability in Mr. Crane's 55 percent primary showing against Gary Skoien, a supporter of abortion rights. Her brother, an aide to Senator Alan Dixon, thought of running. But party leaders asked her to run, and she rented an apartment in the district.
Now, others in her company are making the fall trip to Japan she usually takes for business. Her travel goals are defined by campaign buttons parodying the Jimmy Stewart movie: "Ms. Smith Goes to Washington."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) ILLINOIS REPUBLICAN (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KENTUCKY UNITED STATES (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ABORTION; ELECTION ISSUES; WOMEN CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ABORTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (86%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); REDISTRICTING (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FAMILY (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); GUN CONTROL (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); EDUCATION REFORM (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; STOKES, SUSAN; MAZZOLI, ROMANO L (REPR) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



548 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Bold Plan for Car Insurance

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
President Bush's plan to contain exploding auto insurance premiums, which was all but drowned out by campaign protesters at a speech yesterday in Edison, N.J., will not become law anytime soon; the plan has not yet even been translated into a legislative proposal.
But state regulators and insurance companies, now trapped between the reality of rising costs and the public's fury over rising premiums, are likely to welcome the effort to elevate the debate over auto insurance affordability to a national forum. And many policy analysts will no doubt be intrigued with the President's bold plan, which could drive most auto injury claims out of court and pare individual premiums by 20 to 30 percent. 
 "It offers a choice in what is now a one-size-fits-all system dominated by attorneys," said Michael J. Horowitz, the director of the judicial studies program at the Manhattan Institute, a public policy research organization, who wrote the proposal with Jeffrey O'Connell of the University of Virginia Law School.
 
Reliance on Legal System
 Twenty-eight states, among them California, Ohio and Illinois, rely exclusively on the legal system to settle liability claims in injuries caused by auto accidents. To collect, you must settle with the other party's insurance company or win a negligence suit in court.
Other states, among them New York, augment this liability approach with "no fault" protection, in which those injured are guaranteed some standard compensation for out-of-pocket losses from their own insurance companies. To sue for negligence, they must pass some test of injury, ranking from very modest medical bills to very severe impairment.
Numerous states have attempted to cap the rise in auto insurance premiums, which increased three times as fast as inflation during the 1980's and have become a thorn in the body politic.
Indeed in New Jersey, where by no coincidence the President tried to unveil his plan, the state government's effort to contain premiums without containing the cost of accidents led to the collapse of the private insurance market.
In California, politicians are still scrambling for a fix that will either stabilize rates or put the blame on the insurance industry.
The White House plan is elegantly simple in conception if complicated in design. It would leave with the states the basic responsibility for regulating automobile insurance. But it would require the states to give drivers the choice of buying less expensive coverage that eliminates the chance to collect for "pain and suffering" -- thus avoiding the drawn out and costly trial process that has pushed up prices.
Under this approach, the primary responsibility for compensation would rest with the injured person's own insurer. Someone who bought this insurance could neither sue someone else to collect for pain and suffering, nor be sued by anyone to cover their pain and suffering.
Where an accident involved parties who had both elected to stay with the old system, it would be business as usual; juries could still be called up and still award huge sums to the injured for pain and suffering.
But when both parties in an accident had elected the new-style coverage, the victim would look to his own insurance company to cover medical bills and lost income, regardless of fault. If his coverage were inadequate, he could sue the other driver for the balance. Awards for negligence, however, would be limited to economic losses, and not pain and suffering. The only exception: when the injury was linked to alcohol or drug abuse.
What would happen if a driver who chose to pay extra to maintain old-style insurance is injured by someone who had opted out of pain and suffering claims? The fully covered driver could only collect from the negligent driver's insurance company for economic losses. But he would be permitted to make a claim against his own insurance company for pain and suffering -- and even sue it for compensation.
This might seem an odd solution. But Mr. O'Connell, the co-author, notes that it is precisely analogous to what happens today when an insured driver is injured by an underinsured one: the injured party is compensated by his own insurance company under his own "uninsured driver" coverage.
 
Savings Are Estimated
 The White House estimates that the payoff for those who give up the right to claim for pain and suffering would be a 50 to 60 percent cut in the bodily injury liability portion of their insurance premiums. And since bodily injury represents about half the cost of auto insurance, the overall savings would run to 25 to 30 percent. It is not known, of course, how many people would sign up.
This estimate is independently confirmed by Stephen Carroll, an economist at the Rand Institute for Civil Justice in California. Mr. Carroll cautions, however, that just one-third of the savings -- roughly $10 billion annually if everyone opted for lower premiums -- would come from reduced costs in processing and litigating claims. The remaining two-thirds would come out of payments for injury claims.
Is the implicit trade, the loss of $2 in potential compensation to save $3 in premiums, a fair deal? Robert Hunter, the president of the National Insurance Consumer Organization, worries that consumers would too casually give up the right to sue for pain and suffering, and perhaps also fail to buy enough no-fault protection to cover potential economic losses. "People would make the wrong choices." he concluded.
George Priest, a professor at the Yale Law School, has a different complaint. He thinks that shifting the burden to the injured parties' insurers would serve the interests of bad drivers, who are currently punished for their transgressions with sky-high premiums. "This system would be very good for high-risk drivers," he said.
 
A Matter of Luck?
 But supporters think the critics have missed the point or, more charitably, are too willing to sacrifice the good in their quest for the best. In the real world, Mr. O'Connell said, pain and suffering is a lottery in which awards have little to do with injury and much to do with luck. Most people, he said, would be better off with certain access to modest no-fault compensation for economic losses.
And while high-risk drivers would pay less than they would under the current system, Mr. O'Connell argues that the high cost of insurance is not an effective deterrent to accidents. Many who are priced out of insurance today, he notes, simply drive without coverage: In California, for example, a quarter of the drivers involved in accidents are uninsured.
Mr. Horowitz, the co-author, offers another twist. The switch to a system in which drivers insure themselves against injuries caused by others, he says, would give insurers incentives to reward drivers who purchased safer cars. It hardly pays, after all, to offer premium discounts for air bags if the life they save is not the life covered by the insurance policy.
Issues of equity and safety surely matter. However the prospects for translating the proposal into law probably depend less on the policy debate than on the push and shove of the interests most directly affected.
 
Trial Lawyers Against
 On one side are trial lawyers. Roxanne Conlin, president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, scoffs at President Bush's dismissal of coverage for pain and suffering. "He makes the proposal to harm injured people," she said.
On the other side are insurance companies, which are no longer able to pass on the rising cost of accidents to their customers. While the industry hardly speaks with a single voice, Mr. O'Connell reports there was "considerable enthusiasm" for the plan from Geico, State Farm and USAA.
The balance of political power, suggests Orin Kramer, an insurance industry consultant in Princeton, N.J., may rest with state regulators who have been wrestling with cost-containment proposals ranging from utility-style rate regulation to generous no-fault insurance financed by gasoline taxes. "The state insurance commissioners have a natural role as the ombudsmen of cost reduction," Mr. Kramer said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Big Difference in Premiums" shows average liability premium for private passenger car insurance for selected states in 1990, and ranked by cost, with 1 the lowest. (Source: Insurance Information Institute) (pg. 41)
 
"Soaring Costs" compares index of car insurance with index of consumer prices, 1972-1992. (Source: Insurance Information Institute; Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 45)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (84%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (84%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; WYOMING UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; ELECTION ISSUES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; RATES AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INSURANCE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DAMAGES (89%); NEGLIGENCE (89%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (89%); POLITICS (79%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); PERSONAL INJURY (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); LEGAL EDUCATION (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PASSELL, PETER GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



549 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: New York, New York, A Goodwill Games Town

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
From 64 cities nearly two years ago to 4 finalists when the winner was chosen on Thursday night in Atlanta, New York became the unexpected choice to stage the Goodwill Games in 1998, for a reason none of the other candidates could possibly match.
It's New York. 
 In the end, after considering all the swimming pools, track and field stadiums and velodromes necessary for the Olympic-style competition held every fourth year, New York and surrounding areas of New Jersey and Long Island prevailed over bids from Dallas-Fort Worth, South Florida and St. Louis because of Ellis Island, the United Nations, the Statue of Liberty, Broadway, Wall Street, Madison Avenue, television networks and 175 ethnic groups that live in the region.
 
High-Placed Help
 It helped considerably that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, Gov. Jim Florio and Mayor David N. Dinkins played visible roles in supporting the efforts, and that a slew of business leaders from the region committed their support, financial and otherwise. But in the last hours of consideration, when a nine-member committee was reviewing what Sandy Knapp, a chairwoman, called "four absolutely fantastic bids," New York swayed the panel on the sheer weight of its role as the country's largest city.
Of course, the negative aspects of the metropolitan area were taken into consideration. The committee sought assurances that traffic would not become a problem, that adequate security of athletes and officials could be maintained and that the Games' effort to gain media attention would not become lost among the region's other daily events.
"But it came down to this," Ms. Knapp said yesterday after a news conference in Madison Square Garden with the Governors, the Mayor and dozens of civic, business and sports leaders. "Every major city in the country is the center of something. But here, you have the center of commerce and trade in the United States, media, communications, culture, entertainment; everything that's important to the future of the Goodwill Games."
The economic projections of the Goodwill Games could make them important for the future of the region. Officials from the Goodwill Games contend that the Seattle area benefited by $350 million for the 1990 event. They estimated that the 1998 event could generate $500 million.
Don Smith, president of the New York City Sports Commission, which coordinated the bid, said the operating budget would be $50 million. But that figure would be offset by ticket sales, television rights fees, contributions and government subsidies.
 
A Gesture of Peace
 The Goodwill Games were hatched six years ago by Ted Turner, the president of the Turner Broadcasting System, disappointed over the boycotts of the two previous summer Olympics. They began in 1986 in Moscow primarily as a gesture of peace but also as programming for the cable system he owns. Then, with a format that alternated the Games between the United States and Russia, they were held a second time, in Seattle. In 1994, they are scheduled to be staged in St. Petersburg, Russia.
The Goodwill Games have achieved status as a prominent international sports event just below the level of the Olympics, which in Barcelona, Spain, last summer involved four times the 2,500 athletes expected to participate in St. Petersburg.
But organizers said yesterday that awarding the 1998 Games to New York was an important step in helping the event expand its profile.
"I could not be more excited," said Mr. Turner, who was lobbied personally by Governor Cuomo and Mayor Dinkins for nearly an hour on Wednesday afternoon in Atlanta. "Your guys, your political leaders, the Governor and the Mayor, made a phenomenal presentation, a great presentation, and it will be a blast."
Through most of the campaign to stage the 1998 Games, New York's bid ranked far off the lead, Ms. Knapp and others said. Members of the site selection committee were concerned that some of the venues proposed for use were inadequate. There was particular concern that the proposed center for aquatic sports, at Rutgers University, in Piscataway, N.J., lacked seats, and the region was without a suitable velodrome for cycling events.
It was only last spring that the concerns were addressed, Mr. Smith said, starting with the appointment of a new board to oversee the bid process. The group consisted of business, civic and cultural leaders, to reflect a wider commitment by the region.
The problem with the aquatic center was apparently solved by New York State, which committed $4 million for construction of an outdoor complex at Hofstra University in Hempstead, L.I. A new or refurbished velodrome was assured by Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the New York City Council, who added a $2 million line to the 1993 city budget to be spent in 1995 to refurbish a velodrome last used for the 1964 Olympic trials or to purchase a new one.
By this week, Ms. Knapp said, there was little tangible difference among the bidding groups, other than that New York could provide the Games a cachet they have not yet achieved.
The remaining uncertainties about support were answered on Wednesday, when 49 representatives of New York's bid group, including Governor Cuomo and Mayor Dinkins, flew to Atlanta on two private jets. Dallas-Fort Worth sent 15 people, South Florida 11 and St. Louis 6. Unlike any other political officials, Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Dinkins, with several associates, met with Mr. Turner privately for 45 minutes. Mr. Turner had no vote in the final decision, but several people close to him, who did not want to be identified, said he was impressed with their presentations and excited by the possibilities of his Games in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TBS (AMEX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: GOODWILL GAMES CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); MAYORS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (74%); BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); TRACK & FIELD (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); ETHNICITY (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); BOYCOTTS (61%); TICKET SALES (60%); 

PERSON: TURNER, TED; JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; KNAPP, SANDY CRAIG R SMITH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



550 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

 NEW POLICE CHIEF
IS A VETERAN
Mayor Dinkins appointed Raymond W. Kelly, a New York City police veteran, as the city's 37th Police Commissioner. The selection ended a candidate search and deliberations that took two months and put Mr. Kelly in charge of a Police Department shaken by allegations of corruption and racial insensitivity. Page 1.
 
 TEACHER SHOT AT SCHOOL
A 23-year-old machine-shop teacher was shot in the shoulder in a stairwell at a vocational high school in Brooklyn by an unknown assailant who apparently melted into streams of students entering and leaving rooms between classes. The police said the assailant's motive and identity were unknown. Page 29.
 
 RUCKUS AT CROWN HEIGHTS TRIAL
The trial of a black teen-ager charged with murdering a Hasidic scholar in Crown Heights degenerated into a series of screaming matches, as the judge and the lawyers sniped and sparred over the way the defense lawyer was conducting his case. Page 29.
 
 CARDINAL O'CONNOR GOES HOME
John Cardinal O'Connor left St. Vincent's Medical Center 20 hours after he was taken there by ambulance after complaining of nausea and light-headedness during the annual Alfred E. Smith Memorial Dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria. Doctors determined that the 72-year-old Roman Catholic Archbishop of New York had suffered an intestinal virus. Page 30.
 
 REGION
 
 MORE LAYOFFS
IN CONNECTICUT
Pratt & Whitney, the jet-engine maker, said that it would lay off 3,600 workers in Connecticut, more than 16 percent of its local work force, over the next eight months because of a steep drop in commercial-airline contracts. The news sent shock waves through a Connecticut economy that had begun to stabilize in the recession, and it seemed certain to deepen President's George Bush's re-election problems in a state he once called home. Page 1.
 
 AN AGREEMENT ON SEIZED ASSETS
The Suffolk County District Attorney, James M. Catterson, agreed to make a public accounting of money he has seized from criminals, a source of revenue that some county legislators have described as a secret "slush fund." In return, Mr. Catterson will retain complete control of the money. Page 31.
 
 AN APPEAL TO JURY IN ABUSE CASE
Defense lawyers in the Glen Ridge sex-assault trial denounced the state's case, saying that their clients were not criminals, but teen-age boys who were swayed by their hormones and a young woman's sexual aggression. In nearly four hours of opening statements, they appealed to the jurors to be fair and open-minded but not to apply their own sense of morality to the case. Page 31.
 
 A NEW FACE FOR 7th DISTRICT
The Seventh Congressional District, once the most ethnically varied political caldron in New Jersey, has been the fief of Representative Matthew J. Rinaldo for 20 years. But heading into next month's election, the redrawn Seventh District has lost its huge blocs of immigrants. And it has lost Mr. Rinaldo, who announced his retirement in September. All this means a once predictable district is now up for grabs. Page 31.
 
 About New York by Michael T. Kaufman 29
Traffic Alert 28


GRAPHIC: 

	'91	 	 	'92	 	 	 	CHANGE	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Total	 	 	 	10,393	 	 	 	8,985	 	 	 	-13.5%	 	 	 	Robbery	 	 	 	5,436	 	 	 	4,203	 	 	 	-22.7%	 	 	 	Larceny	 	 	 	3,444	 	 	 	3,231	 	 	 	-6.2%	 	 	 	Assault	 	 	 	738	 	 	 	664	 	 	 	-10.0%	 	 	 	Burglary	 	 	 	81	 	 	 	121	 	 	 	49.4%	 	 	 	Homicide	 	 	 	20	 	 	 	13	 	 	 	-35.0%	 	 	 	
Table: "Pulse: Subway Crime" -- January - August
 Robbery is theft with the use of force or the threat of use of force. Larceny is theft without the use of force. Burglary is theft of property.
 (Source: N.Y.C. Transit Police)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PRATT & WHITNEY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS POLICE FORCES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); ASSET FORFEITURE (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); MURDER (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); RELIGION (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); ACCOUNTING (72%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); LABOR FORCE (69%); JUDGES (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (66%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (64%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



551 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2116 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Issues -- Welfare;
Talk of Cutting Welfare Rolls Sounds Good, but Progress Is Far From Sure

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16

 BODY:
Since President Bush took office, the nation's welfare rolls have exploded to record highs.
What he and Gov. Bill Clinton propose to do about that offers a study in contrasts: Mr. Bush has a modest plan that is unlikely to do great good or harm, while Mr. Clinton calls for sweeping changes that will be difficult to enact and whose effects are impossible to predict. 
 Mr. Bush was virtually silent about welfare for three years and began discussing it only this year, after his poll takers found the subject played well to the public. This summer he issued a plan that calls on states to try more experimental programs, a modest change to what virtually everyone calls a deeply flawed system.
His aides acknowledge that their proposal would do little to reduce the welfare rolls in the short term. But they argue that the nation does not yet know how to cure long-term welfare dependency, and that the experiments might help find the key to future success.
 
Promising Radical Change
 The President's Democratic challenger, Mr. Clinton, has been active in welfare policy for a decade, and he is promising radical change. He calls for increased spending on education and training for welfare mothers, while promising to reduce the grants after two years, unless the recipients work or perform community service.
But for all his seeming specificity, Mr. Clinton has not committed himself on the crucial details that will spell the difference between significant and cosmetic change. And it is doubtful that the changes would be as bold as Mr. Clinton suggests once Congress, the bureaucracy and the budget weigh in.
It is also unclear whether a national work program would help welfare mothers, as Mr. Clinton suggests, or simply add to their already considerable stress. Its critics say it could leave them twice as busy but just as poor.
"I don't think the President has a plan," said Isabel V. Sawhill, an economist at the Urban Institute who is among the nation's leading welfare experts. "He has a few worthwhile notions, but they're certainly not going to solve the problem."
 
Common Sentiment
 Speaking about Mr. Clinton, she echoes a sentiment common to many welfare experts. "Clinton has adopted some of the most creative ideas in welfare policy," Ms. Sawhill said. "The question is whether he will put them into effect."
The third Presidential candidate, Ross Perot, has joined the others in proclaiming welfare undesirable. But his policy blueprint, "United We Stand; How We Can Take Back Our County," offers no specific welfare proposals, and he seldom mentions the topic.
Mr. Bush's first Presidential mention of welfare came in his inaugural speech, in the same paragraph as his famous promise to "make kinder the face of the nation and gentler the face of the world." He cited a litany of social ills he aimed to address, including homelessness, drug addiction and welfare. "My friends," he said, "we have work to do."
 
Scarcely Mentioned Topic
 But a computer search of Presidential documents shows that Mr. Bush scarcely mentioned welfare in the next three years. He finally returned to the subject in this year's State of the Union Message, quoting Franklin Roosevelt's admonitions that welfare not become a narcotic.
Mr. Bush's poll takers assembled a sample group of citizens on that night in January, in Arlington Heights, Ill., giving participants devices to register their responses on a computer. Fred Steeper, a poll taker, said the President's comments on welfare were among the most popular of the evening.
"It just confirmed that welfare reform is something people wanted to see done," he said.
A month later, Mr. Bush seized on welfare as a campaign issue in the primaries, with television commercials that promised to "change welfare and make the able-bodied work."
 
Switch to Harsh Words
 The switch to harsh language, from inaugural talk of kinder and gentler, continued. "We need to say, Get a job or get off the dole," Mr. Bush said in a July 31 speech devoted to welfare.
This talk has distressed some welfare experts, who call it an appeal to racial hostility. "It was a David Duke kind of signaling," said Richard Nathan, a former Nixon aide who wrote speeches on welfare for Mr. Bush in his 1980 campaign.
Mr. Bush's plan, announced in his July 31 speech, is not as bold as his talk. Its main plank would give states more flexibility to conduct experiments.
Some of these have been well-publicized. Wisconsin, for instance, has permission to cut the grants to welfare mothers if their children do not attend school.
Gail Wilensky, the chief White House welfare adviser, acknowledges that the changes are likely to bring large reductions in welfare rolls. "We -- and I mean the global we, the country -- do not know how to bring down long-term dependency," she said. She described the White House strategy as an effort "to learn as much as we can" through careful experiments.
Ms. Wilensky argues that Mr. Bush's welfare record should be viewed in a broader context that includes related areas like education, taxes and urban development.
In 1990, for instance, Mr. Bush signed a law that provides $18 billion in tax credits over five years for low-income workers, making it easier for welfare mothers to leave the rolls. Mr. Bush also signed a bill that provides more than $1 billion a year to subsidize child care, which also helps welfare mothers to seek jobs.
Mr. Bush also supports tax breaks intended to attract businesses to special inner-city zones. He has called for a voucher plan that would allow parents to send their children to the public or private school of their choice. And he has started a program to sell public housing to tenants, which he said would help stabilize distressed urban areas.
At the same time, he has presided over the largest increase in welfare rolls in two decades. About 4.8 million families now receive Aid to Families with Dependent Children, a 27 percent increase since Mr. Bush took office. The sudden rise, after more than a decade of stability, is largely a product of the recession rather than a change in policies by the Bush Administration.
Unlike Mr. Bush, Mr. Clinton accompanies his promise to "end welfare as we know it," with a seemingly detailed plan. As Governor, he ran one of the nation's first experimental job-search programs for welfare mothers. And he led the nation's governors in lobbying for the 1988 Family Support Act, which requires every state to run a training or work program for welfare mothers.
Mr. Clinton's plan to spend an additional $6 billion a year on training programs and tax credits is far more generous than the current system. But his plan to require work or community service after two years would also be far more strict.
Of the $6 billion, Mr. Clinton would devote $2 billion to an additional expansion of tax credits. His goal is to lift the earnings of all full-time workers to at least $13,924 a year -- enough to raise a family of four out of poverty.
Mr. Clinton would spend the remaining $4 billion to expand education and training, adding that sum to the $1 billion the Federal Government offers now. But even with this vast expansion, there is reason to question that the programs would have a great impact.
Much research on similar programs has shown that the effects are beneficial but small. Most recently, a study in Riverside, Calif., found that such a program had raised the annual earnings of welfare mothers by 65 percent. But their overall earnings still remained quite low: just $2,468, on average. The results in five other California counties were even more modest.
Other questions about Mr. Clinton's plan focus on the work requirements. The history of welfare reform is filled with measures that sounded strict but turned out to have large loopholes. And while Mr. Clinton's time limit of two years sounds air tight, he has already said there would be exceptions.
"I would go beyond two years if they were in a meaningful training program," he said in an interview in February. Other exemptions are bound to follow.
Mr. Clinton has also failed to specify what he means by "community service." He borrows many of his welfare ideas from David T. Ellwood, a Harvard professor working as an informal adviser to the campaign. Mr. Ellwood calls for the Government to create jobs for welfare mothers who cannot find them in the private sector.
But a public employment program for all the welfare mothers who cannot find jobs is likely to cost tens of billions of dollars; even at the minimum wage, a full-time job would pay almost twice the average welfare grant. "I don't want to promise to do that until I know we have the money," Mr. Clinton said in the interview.
Instead of offering real jobs, Mr. Clinton is likely to require welfare mothers to spend some time working off their grants -- by sweeping public buildings or working at day-care centers.
Critics say simply giving welfare mothers a broom does not leave them any less poor, just busier. "Most mothers with young children don't need to be busier," said Christopher Jencks, a sociologist at Northwestern University.
There are two reasons to suspect Mr. Clinton's plan will end up less bold than it seems: money and ideology. Ms. Sawhill said $4 billion is "probably too optimistic" a figure to run a national program. And Mr. Clinton would have to work with a Democratic establishment, in Congress and within his Administration, that has traditionally opposed work requirements as being punitive. The pressure to water the requirements down will be intense.
 
 
 
CANDIDATES ON THE ISSUEES: WELFARE
 The nation's welfare rolls reached a record high this year; 4.8 million families, or 13.7 million people, now relying on Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the main Federal program. Studies show that 22 percent of all American children now spend at least a year on welfare before they turn 18 years old; for black children, that figure is 72 percent. Welfare benefits have eroded sharply in the past two decades, with the average mother with two children now receiving $372 a month.
The major-party Presidential candidates, President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton, agree that the current system is flawed, but Mr. Clinton has proposed the more sweeping plan for changing it.
The independent candidate, Ross Perot, has issued vague calls for welfare reform but produced no specifics.
 
The proposals:
The heart of President Bush's plan is to allow states more latitude in experimental programs. Mr. Bush's aides concede that this will do little in the short term to reduce the welfare rolls, but they say careful experiments are the key to finding a long-term solution.
Bill Clinton proposes spending an extra $6 billion a year on tax credits and training for welfare mothers. He also vows to reduce cut aid to welfare mothers after two years, unless they find a job or perform community service. There is no precedent for such a sweeping welfare change, and many experts doubt Mr. Clinton's ability to enact it.
 
The records:
 In his first three years as President, Mr. Bush rarely mentioned welfare. He issued no specific welfare proposals until last July, when he issued the plan calling for welfare experimentation.
 Mr. Clinton has a decade-long record of running experimental programs for welfare mothers. He played an important role in lobbying for the 1988 Family Support Act. That law requires every state to enroll some of its welfare mothers in work or education programs.
 
The philosophies:
 Mr. Bush began his Presidency with a famous call for kinder and gentler policies, including those affecting the poor. But in recent months, he has adopted a harsher tone, calling for welfare mothers to "get off the dole." His critics, including some Republicans, have accused him of using attacks on welfare to appeal to racial hostility.
Mr. Clinton's call for more training programs reflects a typical liberal belief that welfare mothers need better skills. But his plan to demand work from welfare mothers after two years is a conservative proposal opposed by many within his own party.
 
The scorecard:
Mr. Bush's tough talk may appeal to voters but he has offered few ideas about how to change the system. And his record conflicts with his oratory: burdened by recession, more people are now on "the dole" than ever.
 Even Mr. Clinton's critics admire his knowledge. His proposal may be the most sweeping ever backed by a Presidential candidate. But there is reason to doubt that the actual changes will be as bold as he implies, and if they are, no one can be sure of their effects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; WELFARE (US); ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); EDUCATION FUNDING (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DEPARLE, JASON BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



552 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Child Killings In City System Reach Record

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
Twenty-seven children, whose families had been identified by New York City's child protection system as abusive or neglectful, were killed last year, the highest number since the city began keeping the statistic in 1986, a panel reported yesterday.
The number has risen in each of the last three years. In 1989, the number of children killed in troubled families known to the city's Human Resources Administration was 7. It rose to 16 in 1990. 
 The report, prepared by a panel of experts who examined confidential city records, criticized city caseworkers for frequently overlooking the role of various men in the dead children's homes.
Twelve of the children were killed by fathers, boyfriends or other men who regularly visited the homes, acting alone or with the mothers. Yet, the experts found that city caseworkers had generally failed to thoroughly investigate the men, focusing instead "almost exclusively" on mothers and other female caretakers.
 
Changes in Training Asked
 The 44-page annual report recommended that the city's Human Resources Administration re-emphasize the importance of men in understanding the dynamics of troubled families -- a subject that has been taught in the training academy for city workers, but apparently failed to sink in. The report also called for more emphasis on recognizing the sometimes subtle signs of domestic violence.
The city's Human Resources Administration, responding to the panel, said that it was strengthening training of workers in the recommended areas. City officials have noted, however, that budgets cuts have reduced the number of caseworkers who investigate allegations of child abuse, making it harder for them to leave work for extra training.
The yearly report is the only public accounting of how the city handled the cases of the 48 children who died in 1991 and whose families had been known to the city. The records of individual cases are protected under state confidentiality laws.
Besides the 27 children who died of homicides, 21 children died from from natural causes, accidents or undetermined causes.
Another 54 children died of suspected abuse last year, but their families were not known to the agency.
Barbara J. Sabol, the Human Resources Administrator, appointed the panel of city officials and 13 doctors, child abuse researchers, social workers and other experts to review the agency's performance in cases that ended in a child's death.
 
Many Family Problems
 The children came from families with many social problems: 70 percent of the families were plagued by domestic violence, half had a history of drug abuse, 40 percent of the families had parents who were mentally ill or retarded, and one-third had experienced homelessness.
The leading type of homicide, the report said, was "blunt trauma." Thirteen children died of it, and seven of them had been beaten repeatedly over a period of time. The second leading type of homicide was malnutrition: Five children starved to death. Other children died of such causes as strangulation, scalding, stabbing, forced feeding, and drowning.
The panel strongly recommended that caseworkers be trained in the stages of child development so they are able, for example, to recognize children who weigh too little for their ages. In one case, a caseworker visited a home and noted in the record that the children "appeared to be fine, in good health and not at risk." The next day a visiting nurse had one of the children hospitalized for malnutrition.
The report said it was difficult to conclude why homicides had increased because the number of deaths was still relatively small.
The child homicide statistics for 1989-91 that are cited in the panel's report are based on the medical examiner's determination of cause of death. Between 1986 and 1989, the Human Resources Administration did not classify the deaths by the medical examiner's rules. But the city determined, by examining its records, that the number of homicides of children known to the agency was 14 in 1986, 8 in 1987 and 15 in 1988.
"The sample is too small to definitively say that the increase in homicides is a trend," said Sheila Jack, a spokeswoman for the Human Resources Administration. "But we do know that child homicides have increased nationally, so this would be consistent with that larger trend."
The National Association for the Protection of Children estimated in the report that between 1985 and 1991 the number of children killed from abuse and neglect in the United States increased 57.5 percent, to 1,383 from 878.
Douglas Besharov, a child abuse expert who served on the panel, said he believed the rise in homicides reflected the worsening mayhem in the city's poorest neighborhoods -- a condition that, he said, the child welfare bureaucracy has not yet adjusted to.
"We've seen an increase in street violence, in part caused by crack," said Mr. Besharov, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. "That violence is seeping into the home."
The families of the dead children are often headed by single women who abuse drugs and depend on men whom Mr. Besharov called "unsavory characters" to look after their children when they go out. The men may be unemployed drug abusers who do not have the patience or understanding to change diapers and feed infants and toddlers, who are by far the most common victims.
On the other hand, Mr. Besharov credits the city for improving the training of caseworkers in the late 1980's so they could better cope with the explosion of medically fragile, drug-exposed babies. That contributed to the decline in child fatalities due to natural causes, he said.
The number of medically fragile children who died of natural causes, including AIDS, premature birth due to the mother's drug use and Sudden Infant Death Syndrome, dropped from 22 in 1990 to 11 in 1991.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Child Deaths: Homicide's Rate" shows fatalities among children whose families were identified by the Human Resources Administration as abusive or neglectful, 1988-1991. (Source: New York City Child Fatality Review Panel) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILD ABUSE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; BABIES HUMAN RESOURCES (91%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (89%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (89%); CITIES (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MALNUTRITION (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); STARVATION (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); ACCOUNTING (64%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



553 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Dow Ends Flat After Big Early Drop

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks closed nearly unchanged yesterday, after a recovery in bond prices rescued the market from earlier losses of more than 30 points.
The Dow Jones industrial average was down only 0.27 to close at 3,174.41 after earlier slipping as low as 3,142.53. 
 Analysts said the market was encouraged by signs that the shares of International Business Machines and Philip Morris were trying to stabilize after two days of steep losses.
 
Thursday's Disappointments
 The shares of both companies tumbled on Thursday after I.B.M. reported earnings that disappointed Wall Street and Philip Morris said its cigarettes were losing market share to generic competitors. But late yesterday the selling pressure seemed to be abating.
I.B.M. closed at 70 3/4, down 2 1/8; Philip Morris ended at 77 1/4, down 2 1/2.
In the broader market, advancing issues led declines, 973 to 800, on heavy volume of 235.9 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, compared with 213.6 million on Thursday.
For the week, the Dow rose 37.83 points.
Because of the market's sharp losses in recent weeks, stock prices may be set for a rebound. But analysts said they remained guarded in their outlook.
"The market still looks vulnerable," said Mark Tincher at the Chase Global Private Bank. "You may see a bounce, but I would still be more cautious."
Trading could be volatile at least through the Presidential election, analysts said.
Bonds were hurt early in the day by a report in The Los Angeles Times that Gov. Bill Clinton, the Democratic Presidential candidate, was considering an accelerated economic recovery plan, urging more spending and expanded tax cuts. This raised worries about a bigger budget deficit.
"I think the odds of Clinton winning keep going up, and the markets are identifying that," said Jay McElroy, a principal at 1838 Investment Advisers L.P.
Bond prices recovered before the close yesterday. The 30-year Treasury bond ended with a loss of 3/16 point, raising its yield to 7.52 percent, from 7.51 percent late Thursday.
 
Setback for Westinghouse
 The shares of Westinghouse Electric lost 1 1/2, to 11 3/4, yesterday after Duff & Phelps said it had lowered the credit rating of both the company and its Westinghouse Credit unit.
Apple Computer jumped 3 1/2, to 49; it had reported strong quarterly results on Thursday.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 2.13, to 411.73. The American Stock Exchange index rose 1.70, to 367.33
The New York Stock Exchange composite index of all listed common stocks was up 0.90, to 226.44. The average share gained 14 cents.
The Nasdaq index rose 3.97, to 582.61.
The Wilshire Associates Equity Index -- the market value of Big Board, American and Nasdaq issues -- was 3,975.456, up 16.362, or 0.41 percent.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (57%); IBM (NYSE) (57%); IBM (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (84%); COMMON STOCK (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); MARKET SHARE (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); ELECTIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



554 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
A Profit For Maker Of Chips

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Oct. 16

 BODY:
Texas Instruments Inc. reported a sharp improvement in earnings today for the third quarter, with its computer chip unit posting its first quarterly profit since the last quarter of 1989.
The company earned $57 million, or 58 cents a share, in the quarter that ended on Sept. 30, in contrast to a loss of $113 million in the corresponding period a year ago. Revenues rose 11.2 percent, to $1.89 billion from $1.70 billion. 
 Texas Instruments is among several large American-based chip makers including Motorola, Intel and Advanced Micro Devices that have benefited from surging orders this year, mainly from personal computer manufacturers in the United States and Asia. Intel reported record earnings earlier this week.
 
A Record Is Set

 
 Texas Instruments said its backlog of chip orders soared by 30 percent in the quarter and that chip sales for the period were the highest in its history.
The rebound to profitability has been painful and slow for Texas Instruments, the world's seventh-biggest chip manufacturer. The company has cut 4,400 jobs in the last two years, reducing its global work force to 62,000 in a step calculated to save $220 million a year. The company lost $409 million in 1991, the biggest yearly loss in its history.
In trading today on the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Texas Instruments were unchanged, closing at $45 each.
Analysts said the company's resurgence should continue unless the global economy grew worse. James L. Barlage, semiconductor analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham, said the chip-making business at Texas Instruments was "at the very early stages" of a turnaround.
Operating profit for the entire company was $116 million, in contrast to a loss of $61 million in the quarter a year ago.
The company returned to profitability in this year's second quarter. The small net income that it reported then was its first overall quarterly profit after six quarters of losses.
For the latest quarter, Mr. Barlage estimated that the semiconductor unit contributed half of the company's revenues, including $83 million from royalty payments on licensing agreements with several Asian and American chip makers, up from $70 million in the quarter a year ago.
 
Fast-Growing Specialties
 The company's chief financial officer, William Aylesworth, said in an interview that Texas Instruments plants were producing new specialty chips, like 486 microprocessors, for several customers and a reduced-instruction-set computer chip for Sun Microsystems' work stations in high volumes.
To compete in these fast-growing market niches, the company has invested heavily in new plant capacity despite its losses in the last three years. Less profitable memory chips still contribute most of the unit's sales, but specialty chips accounted for 35 percent last year and have been growing at a faster rate this year, Mr. Aylesworth said.
In a statement, Jerry R. Junkins, chairman and chief executive, said growth in the global chip market would remain sluggish, especially in Japan. He said the company's military electronics unit had "stable profitability" in the quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (97%); INTC (NASDAQ) (91%); AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (97%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (71%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (97%); INTEL CORP (91%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (71%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); ROYALTIES (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); MEMORY CHIPS (73%); PLANT CAPACITY (70%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C WILLIAM AYLESWORTH (56%); JAMES L BARLAGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



555 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Air Fare Plan Fails, American Admits

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
After vigorously defending the simplified fare structure he announced in April, Robert L. Crandall, the chairman of American Airlines, recently told a group of airline financial analysts in New York that the four-tier structure had been a failure.
He suggested that there were limits to how far American might go to defend it. As if to prove that point, the airline recently matched USAir and Trans World Airlines in offering two additional low-priced tiers in selected markets, below its lowest tier. 
 This sort of backpedaling might seem an embarrassment. But few people think it has discredited Mr. Crandall, who as head of the nation's biggest carrier remains one of the industry's most powerful figures.
Analysts, travel agents and airline consultants praise his attempts to institute lower everyday prices, which they say have helped stanch the number of discounts, though not the industry's losses. But they add that the plan might have had a better chance had he persuaded other airlines to go along rather than undercut American.
Even if value pricing, as American calls it, does not stick, these observers say, the industry will eventually have to reinstate the plan, or something similar, to stem the financial hemorrhaging of the industry, which has lost about $7.5 billion in the last two and a half years.
"In this world, timing is everything, and maybe the time is not right for what Crandall proposed," said Daniel A. Hersh, an airline analyst with Kemper Securities Group Inc. in Denver. "If not, when the economy improves we'll probably see value pricing again, although American might not be the carrier to bring it up."
American's initiative, which was followed by United and Delta, eliminated about 85 percent of the tens of thousands of fares in computer reservations systems.
That made life easier for travel agents. "Probably 95 percent of them are completely in favor of the simplified fare structure," said Paul Bessel, president of the 3,000-member Association of Retail Travel Agents. "It drives travel agents crazy trying to explain to a rational human being why it sometimes costs more to fly one way than round trip. And if the passenger decides to buy the round-trip ticket and throw away the return portion, carriers warn agents it's a violation to sell them."
Some carriers, he said, have recently warned travel agents that if passengers are caught violating that policy, the agency will be billed for the difference.
In prescribing the new system, American hoped to narrow the spread between leisure fares and the much higher-priced unrestricted fares, which are purchased primarily by business travelers. Under the old system, 93 percent of American's tickets in 1991 were sold at an average discount of 63 percent. Leisure travelers could change their flights, previously not refundable, for a nominal fee.
"To that extent, Crandall succeeded," said Donald S. Garvett, a vice president of Simat, Helliesen & Eichner Inc., travel industry consultants specializing in aviation. "Before, the normal economy fare was roughly three times more than the lowest fare, and perhaps one in 20 passengers paid it. Now economy fares are 75 to 100 percent higher than the lowest fares, excluding short-term promotions, and about one in five passengers will pay it. So Crandall's reforms were effective."
Before last summer's half-price sale, 30 percent of American's bookings were for full fare, the carrier said, compared with fewer than 10 percent before its value plan. Three times as many passengers paid full fare for domestic flights on the major United States airlines in May, June and July of this year as did in the comparable three months of last year, the Air Transport Association reported.
 
Industry Still Losing Money
 So why has the industry continued to lose money even after the new structure was imposed? "By my reckoning, the industry has lost about $1 billion since restructuring," said Lee Howard, the president of Airline Economics, an industry research group.
While critics at airlines that did not go along with value pricing say the losses prove that the American plan has not worked, Mr. Crandall contends that it would have worked but for those airlines' continued "discounting, couponing and give-aways." He told analysts that if competitors did not adhere to the simplified system, "it will be back to death by a million cuts."
Joseph P. Schwietzerman, a transportation specialist at DePaul University in Chicago and a specialist in airline pricing, said American had not done enough to forge an industry consensus by convincing the weaker carriers that it was in their long-term interest to end corporate discounts.
Mr. Schwietzerman said Trans World Airlines had undermined the plan by aggressively recruiting with discounts those corporate customers turned away by the bigger carriers. Northwest Airlines also failed to go along when it allowed an adult to fly free with a child holding a full-fare ticket in May.
Most analysts say there is nothing sacrosanct about a four-tier structure, and several analysts say a pricing plan ideal for American, United and Delta would not necessarily be suitable for other carriers.
 
More Business Travelers
 "The Big Three have more business travelers, so their mix of traffic tends to produce higher yields than Northwest's does," said Daniel M. Kasper, a transportation specialist for Harbridge House, an international management consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass. "The simplified structure favored the Big Three's key passengers. Northwest's initiative wasn't so much a criticism of value pricing as it was an attempt to stimulate leisure traffic."
The difficulty of making value pricing stick, American says, proves the improbability of claims in lawsuits by Continental, Northwest and the shareholders committee of America West, that the plan amounted to "predatory pricing" designed to drive competitors from the market.
"It shows that no carrier controls or dictates pricing, as some other carriers charge," said Tim Smith, an American spokesman. At the same time, Mr. Smith defended value pricing, saying, "I don't think anyone's going to wake up anytime soon and find 18 to 20 fares on one route, like before."
Mr. Kasper said that while the fewer tiers there were, the better, a fifth or possibly even sixth tier might be necessary to take into account the interests of the other airlines. "Simplicity is a virtue to a point," he said, "but you still need a structure that suits the players in the market."
 
Affordable Excursion Fare
 Donald L. Pevsner, a Miami lawyer and aviation consumer advocate, said the industry needed an affordable excursion fare that did not require purchase at least 14 days in advance. "If American lowers some fares, I don't have a problem if it does away with the current fare structure," he said. "But if it backs away from the structure by raising unrestricted fares back to their former rapacious levels, I'll personally lead a crusade to impose caps on those fares."
Several analysts do not blame the lack of consensus building for the breakdown in value pricing as much as they blame American's timing. "Crandall announced value pricing in April," Mr. Hersh of Kemper Securities said, "and we started seeing more layoffs in April, May and June, so there were fewer business travelers than expected."
But those shortcomings were magnified by the effects of the weak economy. Mr. Kasper said: "If the economy were strong, even the carriers in Chapter 11 would be making money. So the trouble is not Bob Crandall. The problem is soft demand."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert L. Crandall of American Airlines as he announced a new pricing plan in April. He recently admitted that the move had failed and announced new rates to compete with USAir and Trans World Airlines. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Effects of Fare Restructuring on the Airlines" shows net income or loss, in millions for the first two quarters of 1991 and 1992. (Source: Air Transport Association of America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES; DISCOUNT SELLING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INDUSTRY PROFILES AIRLINES (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); PRODUCT PRICING (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (74%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: CRANDALL, ROBERT; MCDOWELL, ROBERT ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



556 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 51; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises on Rate Cut In Britain and Gold Is Up

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar advanced against most major currencies yesterday after the Bank of England cut key lending rates, but reaction was muted by built-in expectations of the reduction.
Gold prices rose. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery closed at $342.40 a troy ounce, up $1.40 from late Thursday. In New York, the Republic National Bank said gold had risen $1.20 an ounce, to a late quote of $342.20. 
 The Bank of England early in the day cut key lending rates by a full percentage point, to 8 percent, the lowest rate in four years, to stimulate Britain's economy.
The move sent the pound lower because a lower interest rate makes the currency less attractive to foreign investors. However, traders said that the foreign exchange markets had expected a rate cut and that that had tempered the pound's fall.
In London, the British pound slid to $1.6548, from $1.7045 late Thursday. In New York, it cost $1.6495 to buy 1, less expensive than late Thursday's $1.6945
Currency market participants said the pound's fall had set off a chain reaction that eventually supported the dollar. Traders selling the pound put their money into yen, and then also sold German marks for yen. The mark weakened against the dollar and dragged other European currencies down with it.
"The dollar rallied by consequence," said Frank J. Pusateri, vice president for corporate foreign exchange at the Bank of Boston. "There were very many crosscurrents and not a lot of conviction one way or another. The only conviction was, 'Sell sterling.' "
The yen rose. In New York, the dollar settled at 119.50 yen, down from 120.25 late Thursday. Overnight in Tokyo, the dollar closed at 120.53 yen, down 0.02 yen from Thursday's close. In London, the dollar was quoted at 119.90 yen.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday's rates, included: 1.4798 German marks, up from 1.4525; 1.3220 Swiss francs, up from 1.2980; 5.0250 French francs, up from 4.9325; 1,302 Italian lire, up from 1,287.50, and 1.24505 Canadian dollars, down from 1.24775.
Gold rose in London to a late bid price of $342.55 a troy ounce, from $342.20 bid late Thursday. In Zurich, it rose to a closing bid of $342.25, from $342.00 bid late Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); GERMANY (87%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); ZURICH (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); GERMANY (87%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (52%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); ZURICH (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; FUTURES TRADING CURRENCIES (95%); BRITISH POUND (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); FUTURES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



557 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT HIT BY 3,600 LAYOFFS

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Oct. 16

 BODY:
Pratt & Whitney, the jet-engine maker, said today that it would lay off 3,600 workers in Connecticut, more than 16 percent of its work force here, over the next eight months because of a steep drop in commercial-airline contracts. Nearly 470 of those people got notices today.
The company, long a mainstay of the Connecticut economy, had announced a job-reduction plan in January that would have gradually reduced employment through the mid-1990's because of declining military orders for jet engines. Today's cuts both accelerate and expand that plan and are centered in the commercial sector of the business, which company officials said had looked secure only nine months ago. 
 Nationwide, about 4,800 Pratt & Whitney workers, or 11.4 percent of the company's 42,000 employees, will be let go.
 
Shock to Connecticut's Economy
 The news, and the expectation that smaller machine shops and other suppliers to the company will be affected, sends a shock to a Connecticut economy that in some aspects had begun to stabilize in the recession, economists said. It also seemed certain to deepen President Bush's re-election problems in a state he once called home.
Connecticut's two United States Senators, Joseph I. Lieberman and Christopher J. Dodd, both Democrats, issued a joint statement calling the cuts "devastating," and laying the blame squarely on the shoulders of the Bush Administration for not sufficiently stimulating the economy. Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., a third-party independent, said all the "clowns in Washington" who have not addressed the recession should be held accountable.
"It stretches the Connecticut recession out," said Nicholas S. Perna, chief economist at Shawmut National Corporation, a bank holding company with offices here and in Boston. "The main reason now is the lack of lift from the national economy."
Pratt, which has about 22,000 workers in the state, is a division of United Technologies Corporation, which also owns Otis Elevators, and is Connecticut's largest private employer. United Technologies officials said in January that falling defense orders had forced a reorganization of the company across Pratt and other divisions and that nearly 14,000 jobs, including 6,412 in Connecticut, would be cut by 1995. That represented about 7 percent of the company's work force of 193,000 employees.
A spokesman for United Technologies, Martin Moore, said today that only Pratt & Whitney was affected by today's announcement, and that reductions in the company's other divisions would continue on the previous schedule. He said that since January about 7,000 jobs in United Technologies units have been cut in Connecticut, through early retirements, voluntary severance packages and layoffs.
 
Canceled and Deferred Orders
 Since January, Pratt & Whitney has cut 2,400 jobs and was scheduled to cut another 2,400 nationwide by 1995. Under the accelerated and expanded schedule, all those reductions, plus about 2,400 more, will be completed by June 30, 1993. For Connecticut that will mean about 1,200 more jobs lost than expected, over a drastically shortened time.
The culprit is not the Pentagon. A Pratt spokesman, Curtis G. Linke, said that in just the last 12 months, about $9 billion in commercial aircraft orders for planes using Pratt engines had been deferred or canceled because of declining air travel, reduced profits and price competition among carriers.
The division's president, James G. O'Connor, said in a letter to employees that recent cutbacks by just three companies -- Boeing, Airbus and McDonnell Douglas -- had cut 1993 orders by 21 percent, compared to 1992.
Orders for spare parts, one of the most lucrative parts of the company's business, are down 25 percent from 1990, Mr. O'Connor said. The company will make only 100 military fighter jet engines in 1993, down from an annual output of 700 engines a year in the early 1980's, although company officials said that those declines had already been taken into account in the earlier job-reduction plan.
 
A Psychological Blow
 Mr. Linke, the Pratt spokesman, said that today's layoffs included 120 jobs cut in East Hartford, 132 in Southington, 180 in North Haven and 227 in North Perwick, Maine. Another 181 workers took voluntary terminations that give them extended benefits and severance pay, he said.
But that voluntary program has now closed, and Mr. Linke said that the next round of layoffs will occur sometime after the beginning of the year. He said that a determination had yet to be made about what plants or what jobs would be cut, or when the axe would fall.
But economists said that a potentially larger impact could come from the psychological blow of the job cuts. Mr. Perna at Shawmut National said that across much of New England, which suffered through some of the first blows of the recession, beginning in 1989, there have been signs that the bottom has finally been hit. The housing industry has stopped its free fall, he said, and the domino-like effect of failing banks has slowed as well. State budgets in Massachusetts and Connecticut have been brought under control.
Mr. Weicker said the Pratt & Whitney cuts point up the need for national action to fight the recession because the declines are so clearly caused by a national slump. If the recession in the Northeast could once have been explained as a result of one region's excesses in real estate or banking or dependence on military contracts, it now clearly cannot, he said.
"We're holding up our end of the line, but we can't do it alone," Mr. Weicker said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Jobs: Shrinking Workforce" shows Pratt & Whitney jobs in Connecticut from 1980 to 1992. (Source: Pratt & Whitney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (86%); BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (90%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: PRATT & WHITNEY PRATT & WHITNEY (90%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (86%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRATT & WHITNEY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JET ENGINES AND JET PROPULSION; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION LAYOFFS (92%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AIRLINES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); DEFENSE ORDERS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); TRENDS (75%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (75%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



558 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: GOODWILL GAMES;
16 Venues, Here's What You'll Get

BYLINE: By FILIP BONDY

 BODY:
There might be a new aquatic center. Or two. Or none. Ticket sales could mean revenues of $15 million. Maybe a little less. Or much more.
Such prickly details hardly seemed to matter yesterday, as blissful New York organizers and politicians celebrated their surprisingly successful bid to play host to the 1998 Goodwill Games in New York City, Long Island and New Jersey. 
 Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, Mayor David N. Dinkins and community leaders insisted there was no reason to panic. With a lead time of nearly six years, everybody believed the kinks could be worked out of any massive sporting blueprint.
"If there's a garbage strike," said Jack Kelly, the Goodwill Games' president, "we'll step around the garbage."
Despite such can-do confidence, there was much to work out for the New York-based group, beginning with the question of financing a minimum of $55 million in organizational costs, plus at least $6 million in capital improvements to stage the 24-sport competition that will sprawl over 16 venues for two weeks.
Matt Scheckner, the executive director of the New York City Sports Commission, said organizing funds could be raised through a variety of methods. In the first two years, a Founders Club would solicit contributions from private sources.
Plans are being drafted for special fund-raising events at the United Nations and Ellis Island. A joint New Jersey-New York lottery could attract a substantial amount, along with ticket sales and the city's share of sponsorship funds. The slice of this endorsement pie is being determined in negotiations between the New York Goodwill Games Organizing Committee and the Turner Broadcasting System, whose president, Ted Turner, is the catalyst behind the quadrennial event.
Scheckner insisted that transportation and security costs would not be prohibitive, because of the city's substantial mass transit system and police force. "These are nonissues for us," Scheckner said. "We move five million people every day already, and the New York City police are the best in the world."
The City Council already has budgeted $2 million to improve the Kissena Velodrome cycling track in Flushing, Queens, a commitment that obviously impressed Goodwill selection committee members and Cuomo.
"If Council Speaker Peter Vallone can find $2 million in his skimpy budget, we can find what we need," Cuomo said, pledging support.
 
Some Natural Fits
 Some of the proposed venues for the extravaganza are naturals, with little or no renovations necessary. Madison Square Garden is perfect for men's basketball and volleyball. The Byrne Meadowlands Arena is equally fit for gymnastics, and Nassau Coliseum's ice surface can easily stage figure skating.
But there are other sites that are more problematic. Columbia University's Wien Stadium requires some expansion of the existing track to be host to a full-blown track and field meet, and has limited seating. The stadium, at the upper end of Manhattan, is still a better choice than Randalls Island, the disastrous host for the 1991 United States National Track and Field Championships.
Scheckner called Randalls Island "a great stadium when Jesse Owens used it." It drew few fans for the track championship and provided a less-than-luxurious setting for those who actually attended.
St. John's University will provide a bare-bones home for women's basketball and women's volleyball, and will perhaps create an argument about inequality in facilities at these Games for males and females. Soccer will be played on the artificial surface of Giants Stadium, or at far-smaller Cantiague Park in Long Island.
 
Where Does the Pool Go?
 The aquatic center has been a sticking point for years, an issue that has arisen whenever New York has attempted to attract a major multisport event. The organizers are hoping to get $4 million in state funding to build a site on, or near, the Hofstra campus in Hempstead, L.I. In addition, they are considering a site in the Bronx.
Scheckner, prepared for anything, said the swimming and diving events could be held in an existing facility at Rutgers University in Piscataway.
Housing for the 2,500 or more athletes will be spread over at least two sites. Dormitories at Hofstra will be used for those athletes competing in events in Long Island, Queens and parts of Manhattan. A midtown Manhattan hotel, perhaps one belonging to one of the sponsoring hotel corporations, will house another group of competitors who must perform in Manhattan and in New Jersey.
The New York organizers yesterday promised to send a large contingent of observers to the 1994 Goodwill Games in St. Petersburg, Russia. They have already studied the successes and failures of the 1990 host, Seattle, which sold about $15 million in tickets but claimed a positive economic impact of $350 million for the region.
Ultimately, the success of the Goodwill Games could depend on the city's ability to bounce back from its current recessionary woes.
"By then, we'll be back in the halcyon days," Cuomo said. "We'll be at our boasting best in 1998."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ted Turner at news conference yesterday announcing decision to bring the Goodwill Games to New York. (Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 
Map of New York showing proposed locations for 1998 Goodwill Games events. (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TBS (AMEX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GOODWILL GAMES; FINANCES FUNDRAISING (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); LOTTERIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); MAYORS (77%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); BASKETBALL (71%); TRACK & FIELD (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (62%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (60%); CYCLING (60%); ICE SKATING (60%); 

PERSON: TURNER, TED; BONDY, FILIP MATT SCHECKNER (83%); MARIO M CUOMO (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



559 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Animation Auction Is Questioned

BYLINE: By RITA REIF

 BODY:
Although the auction at Sotheby's in Los Angeles today is advertised as "the only opportunity collectors will have to buy production artwork" from the film "Beauty and the Beast," the animation pieces on the block aren't entirely the real thing. The background watercolors of trees and castle walls are from the Walt Disney movie, but the gouache images of Belle, the Beast, Gaston and Mrs. Potts are not.
Because of this, purists among collectors and dealers question the validity of the 250 items, which are estimated to bring a total of $670,000. Each piece consists of a watercolor-on-paper from the film, painted with a landscape or interior, and a gouache on celluloid, called a cel, not used in the film, on which one or more of the animated characters is depicted. The movie was animated by computer, and the cels were produced after the computer imagery was completed so that the artists who hand painted them could match the colors on the cels with those in the film. Most of the 988 cels produced were made to be stored in the Disney archives. 
 "These cels weren't used in the production of the film," said Alexander Acevedo, a Madison Avenue dealer. "They're copies. Now we're imitating the computer because the images are getting away from us. I'm not buying re-creations of animation art."
 
Question of Definition
 Peter Merola, a Staten Island collector, said Disney had created a "gray area" by producing cels not used in "Beauty and the Beast." "What are they?" he asked. "They were hand painted but are they originals? I think these new cels will increase the desirability of vintage cels."
Critics say Disney Studios is capitalizing on the booming market for vintage animation art, which rose rapidly in popularity and price throughout the 1980's, remaining recession-proof until six months ago, when buying became more selective. With the prices for Mickey Mouse and Snow White soaring, Disney Studios decided in 1989 to test the market for contemporary images, selling the production art from "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" at Sotheby's. When the sale was successful, cels from "The Little Mermaid" were auctioned.
Now Jeffrey Katzenberg, the chairman of Walt Disney Studios, envisions another coup. "With 'Beauty and the Beast' we decided we would only issue a piece of animation foreground with a matching background," said Mr. Katzenberg. "There are no plans now to sell any additional art from this film."
Harry Matetsky, a Long Island collector of animation art, said Disney was expanding the market by selling images from its new films. "Vintage animation is beyond the pocketbooks of most collectors," he said. "The only way most people can play is to buy the new material."
Russ Cochran of West Plains, Mo., a major dealer in animation art, praised Disney for limiting cel production. "These recreated examples are the next best thing to the real thing," he said. "With other films, Disney has let out a few thousand cels in an auction and a few more thousand to their dealers. The cels created for 'Beauty and the Beast' are the only cels -- unless Disney intends to create more."
When asked whether Disney intends to renew cel production, Mr. Katzenberg said: "Will there be a special edition someday? Maybe."
 
The VCR Generation
 Sotheby officials hope the popularity of "Beauty and the Beast," the only full-length animated feature to receive an Oscar nomination for best film, will push the auction total to more than $1 million. (So far, the movie has grossed $145 million, the highest box-office total ever for an animated film.)
"And that's only the beginning," said David N. Redden, a Sotheby's senior vice president. "My enthusiasm has a lot to do with the fact that I have a 3 1/2-year-old son at home. He's part of the VCR generation. No one will know animation art better than the children of today who see videos of their favorite animation stories again and again and again and again and again."
To promote the auction, Sotheby's printed 17,000 catalogues, a record number, and sent the animation art, as if it were van Goghs and Renoirs, to New York, Tokyo, London, Milan, Paris and Orlando, Fla. At Disney World in Florida, 1,000 collectors and dealers were dined and entertained for three days at the first Disneyana Convention.
The items in Sotheby's sale carry estimates ranging from a low of $1,000 to a high of $10,000 each.
"Why does Walt disney put out re-creations?" Mr. Acevedo said. "Money. And some collectors are not polished enough to care. As long as it has Disney's approval, they'll buy anything."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Belle and the Beast in the Ballroom" is among the 250 watercolor cels from "Beauty and the Beast" that are being auctioned in Los Angeles. (Sotheby's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BEAUTY AND THE BEAST (MOVIE)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%); DIS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (86%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (86%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (86%); SOTHEBY'S (85%); WALT DISNEY CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; AUCTIONS; ANIMATED FILMS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) ART DEALERS (90%); ANIMATION (90%); FILM (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); ANIMATED FILMS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: REIF, RITA JEFFREY KATZENBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



560 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL;
Change and Trust (Sound Familiar?) on Hardwood

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich., Oct. 16

 BODY:
Change and trust were the two recurring themes here tonight as players from the New Jersey Nets and the Detroit Pistons debated their common issues of the 1992-93 National Basketball Association campaign.
"With every new relationship comes trust," said the Pistons' captain, Isiah Thomas. Thomas was referring to the team's rapport with its new head coach, Ron Rothstein, who has succeeded Chuck Daly, who moved on to the Nets after nine years in Detroit. 
 The implication of Thomas's remark was unmistakable. The chemistry the Pistons had developed under General Manager Jack McCloskey and Daly was long gone by last season. It was time, as Daly said earlier in the week, for change. And for Daly, the opening two nights of the exhibition season was a time of coincidence.
 
Face to Face
 On Thursday night, in Grand Forks, N.D., when Daly walked into the arena for an afternoon shootaround, one of the first faces he saw was that of McCloskey, now the general manager for the Minnesota Timberwolves. In keeping with the spirit, or lack of same, of a crumbling regime, Daly and McCloskey had little to say to each other last season.
But neither man wound up an unemployment statistic. As one insider put it, "They didn't go out to dinner but they did talk."
What did they say? "Jack said, 'Little did we know a year ago that we'd end up in Grand Forks, N. D.,' " Daly said tonight before his Nets made it two straight preseason victories, 115-87, over the Pistons, despite the absence of Derrick Coleman (sprained foot), Sam Bowie (bruised finger) and Mookie Blaylock (flue).
Despite a charter flight that didn't land here until 3 A.M., this was more familiar territory. Daly was surrounded by the Detroit area news media the moment he stepped into the arena. When he was introduced, the fans at the Crisler Arena on the University of Michigan campus welcomed him with a warm ovation.
 
Mills's Homecoming
 A more rousing cheer greeted Terry Mills, the other link between these teams. For the 6-foot-10-inch forward, who played for the Wolverines, this was a genuine homecoming.
"To come back here as a Piston is really special," said Mills, who did not want the Nets to match the five-year, $9.4 million Pistons's offer sheet, which they didn't.
Mills, who is from Romulus, a nearby suburb, said he was intrigued by the possibility of returning home, but unsure of the Pistons' stability, until he had a heart-to-heart talk with Thomas.
"He convinced me that this team wasn't going downhill," said Mills, who apparently celebrated his new wealth in the dining room. At 265, he's 15 pounds above the weight he must reach to prevent having $125,000 deducted from his salary.
Actually, a Pistons' upswing is hardly a certainty, and even Thomas, when asked if the Pistons as presently constituted could challenge Chicago, answered: "At this time, no."
The Pistons have an unspectacular mix of veterans on the downside and youth with questionable upside. They also have a crisis on their hands in Dennis Rodman.
Though he marched into the arena wearing dark glasses, took a seat in the second row behind one of the baskets in the second quarter and provoked Thomas to throw a ball in his direction during a timeout, Rodman has not reported to the Pistons' camp.
Adding to bizarre nature of the Rodman mystery, he met at halftime with Daly, with whom he remains close, and presented his former coach with a large framed action photo of himself.
"Based on my conversation with him, I don't know whether he'll play or not," said Daly.
 
'Things Could Happen'
 When Thomas cryptically said, while discussing the strength of the team, "Things could happen over the next two weeks that would change my opinion," a Rodman deal was not difficut to imagine.
With the ear of ownership, Thomas has long been a powerbroker in Pistons' affairs, which is why, he said, he helped recruit Mills, whom he's known since Mills's high school days.
Asked if the temptation to airlift a player out of Daly's lineup was too much to resist, Thomos flashed his famous smile. "No comment," he said.
None of the Pistons' veterans was in the mood to discuss Daly, though Bill Laimbeer told the Detroit news media earlier in the week that the team was working harder under Rothstein. When one listener responded, "Tell me you guys would've won two championships with Ron Rothstein, Laimbeer said, "That's something different."
Meaning: Daly deserves his due. But it was still time for a change.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (87%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT PISTONS MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (55%); DETROIT PISTONS (94%); DETROIT PISTONS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (91%); NEW JERSEY NETS (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (55%); MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT PISTONS DETROIT PISTONS (94%); DETROIT PISTONS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (91%); NEW JERSEY NETS (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (55%); MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (87%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (94%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY ISIAH THOMAS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



561 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Style Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Unraveling of Measure to Revamp Consumer-Credit Reporting

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
Legislation to change the way credit bureaus operate bit the dust late last month just before Congress adjourned, and the story of how and why demonstrates the interplay of the consumer movement, the nation's credit bureaus and politics.
For four years, both the House of Representatives and the Senate have considered changes in the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970, the law that governs how credit bureaus function. Among them were provisions to reduce the cost of getting a credit report and to require credit bureaus to establish toll-free numbers to handle complaints from the public. 
 As Congress was preparing to wrap up its business for the year, the House bill on credit reporting was brought to the floor on Sept. 24. But the measure never came to a vote because a make-or-break amendment failed by a vote of 207 to 203, and its chief backer, Representative Esteban E. Torres, Democrat of California, then persuaded the House to suspend further action on the bill.
The amendment called for removing an important part of the bill specifying that Federal law would overrule state laws regarding credit bureaus. Consumer advocates pushed hard to do away with this provision, known as pre-emption. Industry representatives fought equally hard to retain the provision. And the industry won.
"Pre-emption is a fundamental issue," said Michelle Meier, government affairs counsel of Consumers Union. "You don't tell the states they can't protect their own citizens with stronger provisions than Congress can muster."
Barry Connelly, executive vice president of Associated Credit Bureaus, the trade association for these bureaus, said: "We truly did not want to have the potential of 50 different state rules. But it was a bittersweet victory."
That victory for advocates of pre-emption came when Mr. Torres prevailed on his colleagues in effect to kill the bill after his amendment failed. He said pre-emption was "an outrageous attempt to gut the bill" and would have overwhelmed the dozens of elements in it that most participants in the battle agreed were beneficial to consumers.
Many Republicans on the House Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs, which Mr. Torres heads, saw the issue differently. William Binzel, the Republican counsel for the subcommittee, said, "It's almost a classic case of 'If you're not going to let me win, I'm going to take my football and go home.' If it's a good strong pro-consumer bill, it should apply uniformly throughout the United States."
In its other provisions the bill would have addressed many credit-reporting issues that consumers have complained about in recent years. It would have made it easier for individuals to fix mistakes in their credit reports, required greater disclosure of consumer rights and offered protections against invasions of privacy.
Nevertheless, pre-emption became the focal point around which the floor debate revolved. Representative John Bryant, a Texas Democrat, termed it "a very important across-the-board principle" that he said would be welcomed by the public. Another opponent of pre-emption, Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, said, "This was a chance for the Federal Government to follow the lead of progressive states like New York."
By contrast, members of Congress favoring pre-emption were outraged that the bill did not become law. Representative Al McCandless, Republican of California, said he found it inconceivable that the leadership would kill a bill "that represents months of hard work and truly bipartisan effort."
He added, "At a time when we are trying to get the economy moving, ease the credit crunch, reduce bureaucracy and enhance interstate commerce, we need a uniform standard."
What happens now that the planned overhaul of Federal credit-reporting is dead for this year? As might be expected, new bills amending the 1970 legislation will be proposed in Washington to get the process started again. Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, said one of the first things he would do next year would be to introduce such legislation.
Activity on the state level is also expected to increase. "One of the messages here is that states can move more quickly than Congress can," said Jeffrey L. Amestoy, Attorney General of Vermont and president of the National Association of Attorneys General. "There are 20 states now with fair-credit reporting acts, and I would expect you'd see other states move ahead with laws."
Gerri Detweiler, director of the Bankcard Holders of America, added: "At a minimum, the consumer groups are going to the states with a model bill. But our eventual goal is to get Federal legislation passed."
And Edmund Mierzwinski, the consumer advocate for the United States Public Interest Group, said: "We lost the fight this year, but the bills in 1993 will be tougher stuff. We're not going to compromise next year if we don't have to."
On the industry side, voluntary changes in policies and procedures encompassing some of the consumer-protection provisions in the House bill are under consideration. Mr. Connelly, the trade association official, said: "Our board meets in January and we're going to extract those doable things that don't need a law. We hope the board will approve them as a voluntary standard."


GRAPHIC: 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;CONSUMERS UNION OF US INC CONSUMERS UNION OF UNITED STATES (59%); CONSUMERS UNION OF UNITED STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;CONSUMERS UNION OF US INC CONSUMERS UNION OF UNITED STATES (59%); CONSUMERS UNION OF UNITED STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER PROTECTION; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSUMER CREDIT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; STATES (US); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (94%); CONSUMER LAW (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (64%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



562 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Style Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Care to Blow Your Own Horn? First, Decide on New or Used

BYLINE: By BRYAN MILLER

 BODY:
The $3.4 billion-a-year musical instrument business usually reaches a crescendo at this time of year. The start of school and the pre-holiday season is a time when many parents try to instill a love for music in their children with the gift of a first violin, guitar, trumpet or piano.
Parents and young musicians as well as professionals face the fundamental question of whether to buy a new or used instrument. There is no simple answer, experts say, for the choice depends as much upon individual needs as it does on economy. 
 Savings on used equipment can be substantial -- 30 percent or more, people in the industry say -- but the risks are high.
"You can get some fabulous deals," said John DeBlass, owner of City Music Schools in New York. But, he added, "there are also some terribly abused instruments out there that may be damaged beyond repair."
The used musical instrument market has three major outlets: retail stores, private sales advertised in newspapers and trade journals, and pawnshops.
Musicians, teachers and retailers tend to agree that pawnshops are the riskiest sources. "Pawnshops are a little dicey," said Kenny Kosek, a professional fiddle player based in New York City, who cautioned that pawnshops and secondhand stores are only for experienced players who can recognize quality.
The shopper, he said, "needs basic knowledge of violin making, signals of craftsmanship, carving, the type of wood, the scroll on the peg head and all of that."
Pawnshops and other secondhand outlets normally do not offer warranties or allow customers to take instruments home to test them. Some retailers allow professionals to try out an instrument in performance. One outlet that provides a warranty is We Buy Guitars, a large retailer in New York City that deals in used guitars. A used Fender Stratocaster in decent condition can cost as little as $300, compared with $600 or more new.
When it comes to guitars, especially acoustic guitars, a buyer needs to know the basics of how the instrument is assembled.
"I always look at the neck to make sure that it's true," said Dennis Koster, a classical and flamenco guitarist and teacher in New York City. "And you look carefully for any cracks on the body, and also tap the guitar all over and listen for strange sounds." He advises students to take along a professional player when shopping for a used classical guitar.
Andy Nitkin, director of the American Institute of Guitar in New York, a school and retail center, said students often come to class with woefully unplayable instruments that they bought secondhand. "It happens all the time, like once a week," Mr. Nitkin said. "A student will come in with a guitar that's neck is so warped the strings are an inch off the frets. It costs more to repair a guitar like that than to buy a new one."
Beginner-quality guitars imported from Korea and Taiwan are available at many music shops starting at about $150, making used guitars a dubious investment, Mr. Nitkin said.
Pawnshops and exchange stores frequently have high markups -- 50 to 100 percent or more depending on the instrument, as opposed to 30 percent markups in retail stores -- that they expect the savvy consumer to negotiate lower. Good deals are possible if you know your instrument, or take along someone who does, and can drive a hard bargain.
Many retail music stores now deal in used and new equipment to appeal to both markets. Many musicians interviewed said that reputable music stores can be reliable sources of used instruments. Look for outlets that make repairs on the premises in case there are problems.
"Business is very good," said Chris Walsh, sales manager for the Guitar Center in Hollywood, talking about used equipment, a substantial part of the store's business.
Like most musical instrument retailers, even those who carry used equipment, Mr. Walsh said he still advises most beginners to buy new because "these days you can buy instruments so uniform, of such good quality and for reasonable prices." The exception is the booming vintage guitar market, a realm of the serious collector that is akin to investing in fine art.
Mr. Walsh added that the music business is so competitive that consumers can negotiate with retailers. "Not only price," he said, "but repair terms, the chance to check instruments out and the opportunity for partial refunds if an instrument doesn't live up to its billing."
Much the same seems to hold true in the used piano market, which is enormous, partly because a piano tends to last a long time and because so many players give it up after their childhood lesson days end.
Several teachers and repairers interviewed advised consumers to shop at reputable dealers for both new and used pianos, especially those stores that have repair shops. Used pianos in good condition start at about $700. The least expensive beginner pianos, like the Samick made in South Korea, cost close to $2,500.
John Serkin, a piano technician based in Manhattan, strongly discourages young students from buying so-called starter pianos. "A young student should touch the keys and hear the most beautiful tone possible to become inspired," Mr. Serkin said. "Plus, a quality instrument is a long-term investment."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MUSIC (93%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); PARENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RETAILERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (73%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); PRINT ADVERTISING (67%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN CHRIS WALSH (66%); ANDY NITKIN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



563 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Last Call for the Khmer Rouge

 BODY:
Faced with a delicate test of its credibility, the U.N. Security Council made exactly the right call on Cambodia this week.
The Khmer Rouge faction has been openly defying the peace treaty it signed last year by refusing to demobilize its guerrillas and barring U.N. monitoring and voter registration teams from areas it controls. As the price for compliance, it seeks revisions to the agreement. 
 Allowing the Khmer Rouge to write its own rules would undermine the U.N.'s most ambitious peacekeeping effort to date. Yet too aggressive a response could shatter the international consensus pushing for peace in Cambodia.
The Council has now firmly committed itself to holding free, internationally supervised elections on schedule next May. Unless the Khmer Rouge begins cooperating by January, it will effectively exclude itself from the vote. The Council also agreed to consider further steps, like clamping an economic embargo on Khmer Rouge territory, if needed to protect the vote.
Americans may wonder why even this much patience should be extended to a group that murdered a million Cambodians in the late 1970's. There are at least two good reasons: Not all of today's Khmer Rouge fighters are genocidal murderers. And international cooperation offers the best hope of containing those that are.
Cambodia has been at war for decades. Some now in Khmer Rouge ranks are there mainly by accidents of geography or imperatives of physical survival. Reintegrating these people into the elections will make it easier for the new government to survive the U.N.'s departure.
The Khmer Rouge hard core around Pol Pot has remained a military threat mainly because of arms from China, delivered through Thailand. This core also drew diplomatic support from Southeast Asia and, shamefully, the U.S. Inclusion of the Khmer Rouge in the peace settlement brought commitments to cut off this outside cooperation. China, Thailand and Indonesia now seek to persuade the Khmer Rouge to end its boycott.
By proceeding patiently, the Security Council maintains this crucial Asian support. By insisting on the election timetable, it keeps faith with factions who have fulfilled their treaty obligations. And by threatening an embargo, it warns Khmer Rouge leaders against mistaking patience for impotence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA CAMBODIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); POLITICS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



564 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
WESTINGHOUSE SHARES TOUCH A LOW OF $10.75

 BODY:
A division of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation announced plans yesterday to lay off about 1,400 Maryland workers by the end of the year, blaming cuts in military spending and continuing economic stagnation. The company's Electronic Systems Group, headquartered in Linthicum, Md., laid off 2,500 Maryland employees last year. The new round of job cuts will affect management, professional, clerical, technical and manufacturing employees. Pittsburgh-based Westinghouse employs about 17,200 workers in the Electronic Systems Group. About 12,000 of them are in Maryland. The group, which had 1991 sales of $3.2 billion, makes airborne and ground radar, space electronics, air traffic control and command systems. 
 On the New York Stock Exchange, Westinghouse's shares plunged $1.50 a share, or 11 percent, to close at $11.75. A week ago the stock was at $14.625, but it has been dropping since the company reported third-quarter earnings on Monday that showed a $155 million charge related to its financial-services subsidiary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS811118 OTHER AUTOMOTIVE MECHANICAL & ELECTRICAL REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (91%); SIC7539 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CO LLC (91%); CBS CORP (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS GROUP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS GROUP (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1992



565 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 63; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2067 words

HEADLINE: FOOD;
Home on the Range

BYLINE: By Molly O'Neill

 BODY:
Riding the Montana range with George Kahrl, one of the rising generation of organic-beef growers, I am conscious of the land, the way it rolls flat and dry and lonesome as an abandoned river bottom.
The plains inch up to foothills that are occasionally seamed by brush-lined creeks and straggly fences. But these demarcations, along with our two horses and a grazing herd of 145 cows (each with a calf), are only passing through, like the wind or a spatter of rain. I adjust my world view accordingly. And for a moment I understand the taste for a big, juicy steak. 
 I know that beef has an average of 22 percent fat, and is cited by cardiac specialists as a leading dietary contributor to heart disease.
I know it is embarrassingly decadent to eat beef in a world where famine and hunger are still pervasive. Economists estimate that the water and acreage required to raise beef for one person could feed up to 20 people if it were used to raise grains.
I know that a rampant appetite for beef has powered the destruction of rain forests, the erosion of topsoil, the pollution of table water.
I know that slabs of beef have gone the way of the Old West. Even knowing all this, a two-hour trot across Kahrl's ranch, which sprawls over 5,000 acres 35 miles west of Bozeman, Mont., leaves me crazed for red meat.
What can explain this primal and, for now, at least, politically incorrect and socially suspect appetite? Do lungs full of fresh air trigger a craving for the trophy of a hunt?
Perhaps it is the nip in the air, as much as the air itself, that pushes my thoughts fondly toward a thick porterhouse blackened on the grill, a flank steak seared in a red-hot cast-iron skillet dusted with salt. Because Mother favored the salt-in-a-hot-skillet technique, my thoughts linger there, warmly, before proceeding to rump roast, meatloaf, a good beef stew.
Despite startling statistics about diet-related mortality, America has retained the third-highest consumption of red meat per capita of any nation (behind Argentina and Uruguay), though, over the last decade, consumption has dropped from 76 pounds to about 67 pounds per person annually. What began as a necessity -- frontiersmen hunting and eating those ruminant creatures on the plains -- became a ritual. Consider the hamburger. Consider barbecue. Consider the steak.
Many have found the appetite for beef can be curbed but, in terms of the national consumption, so far, it has not been quelled. Instead of frequent heavy steaks, Americans have infrequent heavy steaks, or go lighter on the steak and heavier on the accouterments, stir-frying and side-dishing beef. But beef remains. As do the sticky underpinnings of yearning, the checkmate of violence and reassurance involved in any sacrificial slaying, the interplay of guilt and indulgence at eating so high on the food chain. Deeper than that, I realize as I shiver on the Montana range, is yet another two-sided coin of desire: the passion for freedom and self-determination, the fight against loneliness and isolation. To eat meat is to know you are not alone.
This may have as much to do with communion as it has to do with anthropomorphic identification and domination. Meat, particularly beef, has long been a conduit of camaraderie; what bread and wine are to the French, beef is to Americans. Leaf through community cookbooks from Montana, and note the frequency of the campfire image. And what is barbecue, whether made of beef and pork, if not a celebration of clan and place? What is a burger if not a national symbol of good times and camaraderie?
And what is all of this but a variation on the "make hay while the sun is shining" theme? Anyone traveling through the Western landscape knows the chill of insignificance that washes over you there.
"The land is bigger than me, older than me; it's going to be around a lot longer than me," said Kahrl, who chose to be a cowboy when he and his wife, Kathleen Crawford, bought the Sarah Faith Ranch in 1987. One reason he ranches, rather than farms, is that soil erosion in this type of landscape can be controlled through prudent grazing. Generally, he grazes a given 15-to-20-acre patch for one week, then he moves his herd and allows the grazed land to rest for at least 90 days.
Due to careful husbandry, 50 percent of his herd never requires antibiotics and can therefore be sold as organic. "It's healthier for the land, healthier for the animals, healthy for people," he says.
By an odd twist, this style of ranching places Kahrl, and a few dozen other organic beef ranchers across America, back on a frontier. They are preservationists, but most preservationists scorn their methods. They are health-minded, but most health advocates disdain their product. They are cattle ranchers but their slow, costly methods threaten conventional beef producers. They are modern cowboys.
Occasionally, these growers join small cooperatives like O-M of Great Falls, Mont., which Kahrl and a handful of like-minded organic beef growers joined several years ago to market and sell their beef. Specialty butchers across the country are beginning to carry the well-marbled beef from O-M and other ranches. Its clean, rich, distinct flavor delivers hints of lonesome cowboys and wide-open plains. It's a balm to wind-chapped cheeks and achy, well-exercised limbs. Sure, the craving is archaic. But, for me, it is irrepressible.
Circle the wagons, let's eat.
 
BOZEMAN FLANK AND BEANS
 
 1 pound dry pinto beans, rinsed
 6 plum tomatoes, cut in half lengthwise
 4 frying peppers, cut in half lengthwise, cored, deribbed and seeded
 1 hot red pepper, seeded and cut across in 1/4-inch slices
 1 teaspoon dry mustard
 3 tablespoons molasses
 4 teaspoons salt, plus more to taste
 1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
 1 teaspoon olive oil or bacon fat
 1 medium onion, minced

The steak:
 1 1-pound flank steak
 2 teaspoons kosher salt
 1 teaspoon coarsely ground black pepper.
1. Place the beans in a large, heavy-bottom pot. Cover with 2 inches of water. Bring to a boil for 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Cover and let stand for 2 hours.
2. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Place the tomatoes and frying peppers, skin side up, on a baking sheet. Roast for 25 minutes. Carefully transfer the vegetables with their juices to a food processor or blender. Add the hot red pepper. Puree until smooth. Set aside. In a small bowl, stir together the mustard, molasses, salt and pepper. Set aside.
3. Drain beans, discard liquid and dry the pot. Set beans aside. Place the olive oil or bacon fat in the pot and warm over medium heat. Add the onion and cook until soft, about 5 minutes. Add the beans to the onion. Pour in enough water to barely cover the beans. Stir in the tomato-pepper puree and the molasses mixture. Cover. Bake until tender, about 1 3/4 hours, adding water as needed to keep beans very moist but not soupy. Add salt to taste.
4. Fifteen minutes before serving, season the steak with 1 teaspoon salt and pepper. Set aside. 10 minutes before serving, place a cast-iron skillet over high heat. Add the remaining salt to the skillet. Heat until hot. Quickly sear the steak, allowing it to cook 2 to 3 minutes on each side, depending on its thickness and how you like your steak cooked. Remove from pan. Let stand for 5 minutes. Slice and serve around beans.
Yield: Six servings.
 
DAUBE PROVENCAL
 
 2 tablespoons vegetable oil
 2 pounds beef-stew meat, cut into 2-inch cubes
 1/2 cup flour
 1 large onion, peeled and minced
 4 cloves garlic, peeled and minced
 1 cup dry red wine
 6 large carrots, peeled and cut into 1-inch-thick diagonal slices
 1 medium celery root, peeled and cut into 1-inch cubes
10 fresh artichoke hearts
 2 cups cracked green olives, pitted
 2 tablespoon fresh rosemary leaves
 1/4 cup grated orange rind
 1 allspice berry
 1 clove
 1 quart beef broth
 1/2 teaspoon salt
 1 teaspoon freshly ground pepper
 1 cup minced parsley.
1. Heat the oil in a heavy-bottom saucepan over medium heat. Sprinkle the beef with flour. Brown the meat in the oil until golden, about 3 minutes per side. Remove meat from pan. Set aside. Add the onion and garlic. Saute until translucent, about 5 minutes. Add the wine. Increase the heat to high and simmer until reduced to 1/2 cup, about 5 minutes. Return the beef to the pot.
2. Add 3/4 of the carrots, 3/4 of the celery root, 4 artichoke hearts, olives, rosemary, orange rind, allspice, clove and broth. Stir to combine. Cover partly and simmer over medium-low heat until the meat is tender, about 1 1/2 to 2 hours. Add the remaining artichoke hearts, carrots and celery root. Continue cooking until tender, about 20 to 30 minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Divide among 4 bowls. Garnish with parsley.
Yield: Four servings.
 
SEARED STEAK WITH CARAMELIZED SHALLOTS
 
 1 teaspoon whole green peppercorns
 1 teaspoon whole black peppercorns
 1 teaspoon whole pink peppercorns
 4 juniper berries
 1 1 1/2-2 pound porterhouse steak, 1 1/2 inches thick
 12 large shallots, peeled
 3 teaspoons vegetable oil
 4 baking potatoes, peeled and cut into 1-by-2-inch rectangles
 1 cup red wine
 2 cups beef broth.
1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Combine the peppercorns and juniper berries in a spice mill or coffee grinder. Grind until smooth. Dust the steak with the spice mixture. Refrigerate.
2. Brush the shallots with 1 teaspoon of the oil. Place them in a small roasting pan. Set aside. Using a sharp paring knife, shape the potatoes into rounded ovals. Brush with 1 teaspoon oil and add to the shallots. Roast until shallots and potatoes are tender and golden, about 45 minutes to 1 hour. Set aside.
3. Heat the remaining vegetable oil in a large, cast-iron skillet until hot. Add the steak and cook over medium heat until medium rare, about 5 to 10 minutes per side. Transfer to a cutting board and set aside for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, pour the wine into the pan and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Simmer until reduced to 1/2 cup. Add the broth and continue simmering until reduced to 1 cup. Pour through a fine-mesh sieve. Set aside.
4. Cut the steak into thin slices, crosswise. Divide the shallots and roasted potatoes in the center of 4 plates. Drape equal slices of meat over the vegetables. Drizzle with 1/4 cup of the sauce. Serve immediately.
Yield: Four servings.
 
FILET MIGNON OF BEEF WITH ROGANJOSH SPICES
(ADAPTED FROM RAJI JALLEPALI, RAJI'S RESTAURANT, MEMPHIS)
 
The meat:
 2 teaspoons ground coriander
 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
 1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric
 1/4 teaspoon ground fenugreek
 1 teaspoon red chili-powder
 1 large clove garlic, peeled and smashed to a paste
 2 tablespoons fresh grated ginger
 2 tablespoons grape-seed oil
 4 6-ounce tournedos
 1 teaspoon vegetable oil
 
The salad:
 1/2 cup fresh lime juice
 1 tablespoon apple-cider vinegar
 1/2 teaspoon salt
 1 teaspoon minced jalapeno chili pepper
 2 tablespoons olive oil
 1 medium celery root, peeled and grated
 1 large red delicious apple, peeled and grated
 1 small jicama, peeled and grated
 1/2 cup minced mint leaves
 1/2 cup minced coriander leaves
 
The vinaigrette:
 1/4 cup fresh lime juice
 1 teaspoon grated orange rind
 1/4 teaspoon salt
 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground pepper
 1 tablespoon olive oil.
1. Combine all of the spices, garlic, ginger and grape-seed oil in a blender. Puree until smooth. Place tournedos with marinade in a large glass or ceramic bowl. Marinate in the refrigerator for 6 hours.
2. To make the salad: Combine lime juice, cider vinegar, salt and minced jalapeno in a large glass or ceramic bowl. Whisk in 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Add celery root, apple and jicama. Toss. Refrigerate for 4 hours.
3. To make the vinaigrette: Combine lime juice, orange rind, salt and pepper in a small glass or ceramic bowl. Whisk in 1 tablespoon olive oil. Set aside.
4. Heat the vegetable oil in a seasoned cast-iron skillet. Add the tournedos and cook over medium-high heat until medium rare, about 5 minutes per side. Set aside to rest for 5 minutes.
5. Add mint and coriander to the salad and toss. Divide among four plates. Cut the meat into thin strips. Drape the meat around the salad. Drizzle with the vinaigrette. Serve immediately.
Yield: Four servings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Kahrl, a Montana cattle rancher, chose to raise organic beef because "it's healthier for the land, healthier for the animals, healthy for people." (Photograph by Ken Jarecke/Contact for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (52%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (52%); MONTANA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; MEAT; COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; RECIPES CONSUMPTION (88%); MEATS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); BEEF (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); RIVERS (77%); NUTRITION (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (74%); HEART DISEASE (69%); FAMINE (68%); DEFORESTATION (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (54%); RAIN FORESTS (52%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, MOLLY GEORGE KAHRL (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



566 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 42; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3269 words

HEADLINE: Fast Money

BYLINE: By Peter Passell; Peter Passell writes about economics for The New York Times.

 BODY:
The office building, a dreary block of reinforced concrete and glass on the seedy western fringes of midtown Manhattan, hardly rates a second glance. Nor does a dimly lit extension to the marble and steel lobby tucked beyond the elevator bank and leading to an unmarked beige door, discreetly monitored by a television camera recessed in the ceiling.
If it all seems unremarkable and uninviting, that is by design, something you begin to understand the moment you walk through the door. For you enter a maze of locked anterooms, rigged to trap, or at least slow, a determined intruder. And beyond the maze sits the object of these security measures, the computer system that is the heart of global capitalism. Here, coded requests to make payments of tens or hundreds of millions of dollars on behalf of this emir or that aerospace conglomerate pour in through 134 dedicated telephone lines. Twenty-two electronic black boxes made by the Racal-Guardata Corporation screen the incoming requests for coding flaws that would expose an illicit message before handing off the orders to a pair of Unisys A-15 J mainframe computers. In less than a second, the funds are on their way to Tokyo or Riyadh, or anywhere else money talks. 
 While the featureless facades of the refrigerator-size mainframes and the casual slouch of a few technicians in front of their video monitors give little hint of the scope of the operation, the stream of messages is really a torrent of unimaginable scale. Each business day, nearly $1 trillion -- more than the entire money supply of the United States -- moves through the machines. Were the flow to stop unexpectedly, financial empires would teeter and governments tremble.
The scene could be the prop for a running joke in a Vonnegut novel -- the one in which the fate of civilization rests in the hands of a bored switchboard operator. And there are unmistakable overtones of "Star Trek" and "Mission Impossible."
Actually it's not fantasy at all, but Chips, the Clearing House Interbank Payments System owned by 11 big New York banks. And to the thousands of businesses and government agencies that have come to depend on it, there is nothing sinister about a computerized system that reliably zaps multimillion-dollar payments around the globe for less than the price of a first-class postage stamp. Indeed, Chips is widely admired as a triumphant marriage of information processing technology and free enterprise, the next best thing to a perpetual-motion money-market machine.
But not every economics heavyweight gazes so benignly at Chips -- or, more generally, at the uncharted frontiers of finance of which Chips is a part, where money consists of magnetized specks of iron oxide in computer memories and great fortunes move from continent to continent as weightless photons through the electromagnetic ether.
Some worry that electronic money and the speed of its transfer are pushing the control of the world's money beyond the conservative reach of the Federal Reserve and other central government banks. Some focus on the coincidence of electronic transfer and increased volatility in financial markets, which they believe gives lie to the hallowed axiom that markets can never be too cheap or too easy to use. Certainly, the recent currency crisis in Europe did nothing to allay these fears.
The most widespread concern, though -- one that could make Europe's currency woes look like the failure of a small-town bank by comparison -- is financial gridlock. In the old banking world of paper money and clerks in green eyeshades, the wheels of financial commerce ground slowly, but with predictable regularity. By contrast, if something were to go seriously awry in the nearly perfect world of electronic money, the whole system could come to a wrenching halt in the twinkling of a gigabyte.
First things first. People make most of their purchases with coins or currency. Indeed, according to a back-of-the-envelope calculation by the Federal Reserve, a shade less than 85 percent of all dollar payments -- everything from tipping the bartender to buying the Sunday paper -- is made in cash. Checks account for most of the rest, while electronic transfers bring up the rear with a mere 2 percent of total transactions.
But this order is reversed if the count is made in total dollars in transit, rather than by the number of times money changes hands. Cash covers less than 1 percent of the total value of transactions, while money flashed from computer to computer accounts for five out of every six dollars that move in the economy. And while just one transaction in a thousand is made on the two great "wholesale" electronic transfer systems, Chips along with the network run by the Federal Reserve push around a stunning $1.7 trillion a day -- 80 percent of the total payments made worldwide in dollars.
What's more, the volume of business on these lightning-fast systems has grown at a rate hardly anyone would have imagined possible a few years ago. In 1980, the daily flow of electronic money was roughly 12 times the balances held in accounts at the Federal Reserve -- the money that banks use to settle their debts at the end of each day. By 1991, the daily flow had reached 55 times this base of bank reserves.
Why the explosion of electronic money? Start with the spectacular expansion of Government securities, used to finance the Federal deficit. These securities are, in effect, money that pays interest -- the perfect medium for speculating or hedging in dollars. Add the fact that the Government securities market was automated in the 1980's, reducing the mechanical obstacles to transferring ownership by wire: "A Treasury bill," points out James Grant, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, "no longer exists except as an entry on a computer tape."
Now factor in the growth of the global economy. When securities brokers in Milan or shirt factories in Thailand do international business, they usually conduct it in the only truly international money, the dollar. And when they convert their own money to United States currency (or back again), the dollar "leg" of the transaction usually goes through Chips in New York because the process is swift and cheap. Chips charges the 122 banks now on line to its computers a mere 18 cents per payment order -- no matter what the size -- and even less if their monthly transactions exceed 80,000.
Cheap and easy is precisely what modern telecommunications and data processing is supposed to be about. And the fact that the world's big economic players want to do most of their playing in American dollars under the rules set by American institutions is surely a tribute to the efficiency and stability of the American financial system.
So what's the beef? Some analysts worry that the speed, scale and complexity of electronic funds transfer has left the global payments system vulnerable to accident or malice -- or worse, a planetwide financial stall caused by a sudden loss of confidence.
JOHN F. LEE, President of the New York Clearing House Association, which runs Chips, hastens to point out that Chips has certainly not ignored the risks of fire, mechanical failure or even terrorism. The Manhattan site houses two computers, either of which could handle the business on its own. And the computers themselves are insulated from potential disaster in a variety of ways. The machines run on current from storage batteries fed by the city power grid; that way, the system is protected against surges and outages. A fire in the control room could be snuffed out in seconds by filling the chamber with Halon gas. Moreover, somewhere in New Jersey -- Lee is not eager to say just where -- Chips has two backup computers linked to an independent communications grid that are ready to process funds transfers at a moment's notice.
The one time backup was needed (Oct. 18, 1991, after a hardware breakdown took out both New York computers), the system worked flawlessly; processing was interrupted for just five minutes. Lee notes that users of the system would never have known about the failure if they hadn't been told.
Chips is well armored against theft. While the speed of transfer and the staggering sums routinely processed make fraud tempting, Lee argues that the problems in penetrating the system and making off with the cash are daunting.
A thief would have to tap into the dedicated phone lines that link member banks with Chips. Then he would have to crack the electronic authentication barrier -- the supersleuth equivalent of a mathematical password -- that stands between the central computers and the outside world.
Simply intercepting a message and changing a funds-transfer instruction would get the miscreant nowhere: the code that must be attached to each message is uniquely linked to the content of the message. An order to move, say, $4.2 million requires a different code from one for $42 million. And when a message cannot be authenticated by the black boxes, the dedicated phone line to the transmitting financial institution is automatically severed.
Finally, a thief would have to lay his hands on the fraudulently transmitted funds at the receiving end before the discrepancy was discovered -- most likely before the end of the day in which the evil deed was done.
There has, in fact, been a theft using Chips. But that was an inside job, one in which thieves used the system to wire money embezzled from the second-largest bank in Switzerland to the New York branch of an Australian bank. The coded message received by Chips was entirely legitimate.
The story of that robbery, pieced together from Australian news accounts and confirmed by bank representatives, is remarkable for both its simplicity and ingenuity. Vannyasingham Sothirasan, a Malaysian con man, apparently convinced two employees of the Swiss Bank Corporation in Zurich, Basant Singh and Martin Hauseder, to serve as inside men in the plot. They succeeded in forging an order to wire some $20 million to the State Bank of New South Wales on Dec. 7, 1989 -- money that had supposedly been deposited in the Swiss Bank Corporation the day before.
But how to claim the money once it arrived and make a clean getaway? Posing as an investment banker, Sothirasan had earlier cut a deal with Malcolm Edwards, an Australian tycoon in desperate need of cash to keep his real-estate empire afloat. The $20 million was to be the first installment of a $500 million loan coming from a fictitious bank, the Beyina Merchant Bank located in the West African nation of Cameroon.
Of the $20 million and change that was transferred to Edwards's account, some $10 million was apparently owed to Sothirasan and his associates by the "borrower" as a fee for arranging the "loan." These funds were quickly wired out of the State Bank of New South Wales by Edwards, broken down into smaller bites and then rewired to other banks.
Edwards used part of the balance to pay off debts and shipped the rest to Edwards-owned companies in Hong Kong and Fiji. Days later, when the Swiss Bank Corporation discovered there had never been a $20 million deposit received on Dec. 6, less than $100,000 was left in the New South Wales bank account.
This crime didn't pay -- or, at least, it probably won't. Sothirasan, Singh and Hauseder were tracked down and returned to Switzerland. All three were convicted; if their legal appeals fail, they will serve sentences of two and a half to three and a half years. At last report, though, only $8 million of the $20 million had been recovered. Civil suits against Edwards's companies and the State Bank of New South Wales are pending in Australia.
THE REMOTE THREATS of computer failure or fraud in Chips or one of the other big money networks are enough to keep the techies on their toes. But the scenario that really causes heartburn among the economists who pay attention to electronic transfers is something called systemic credit risk.
If you pay the dry cleaner in currency of the realm, the payment is final -- that's why the stuff is called legal tender. If you pay the dry cleaner by check, the settlement is "subject to collection," as they say in the fine print on your bank statement. But even if the check bounces and the dry cleaner takes you to court, the national system of making payments with written orders to transfer money from one bank account to another would hardly be threatened.
Now look again at Chips, where 122 banks are zapping orders to pay to each other at a rate of about $2 billion a minute. These payments aren't final until the end of the day, when all debts are cleared by shuffling dollars among the accounts the banks keep with the Federal Reserve.
Note, too, that the large number of banks and the incredible volume of transactions (typically 150,000 a day and, on occasion, as many as 300,000) make it impractical to make settlements on a bank-to-bank basis. Instead, what everybody owes everybody else is netted: Each institution that is in arrears makes payments into the kitty, much the way the "bank" settles accounts for a half-dozen players at the end of a night of poker.
"Multilateral" clearing of accounts through Chips is thus a daisy chain in which each bank's ability to meet its obligations depends on every other's. And that raises a natural question, one that people have been asking since the early 1980's, when the sums moving through Chips began to approach gee-whiz magnitudes: What would happen if a bank that owed money to the system failed to come up with the money at settlement time?
Under the rules of last resort adopted by Chips, the deceptively simple answer is that the day's transactions would be "unwound." That means that every transfer involving the defaulting bank would be removed from the day's settlement. But apart from the inconceivable complexity of sorting through the enormous volume of transfers and informing everyone from Exxon to the central bank of Burundi that the money never arrived, an "unwind" could also generate a cascade of failures in other banks that were owed money by the defaulting institution.
That's not just a guess. David B. Humphrey, a former Fed official now teaching at Florida State University, used the actual transactions from a day in 1983 to simulate the consequences of unwinding after the hypothetical failure of just one large bank. Humphrey found that 24 banks ended up owing more money than the capital of the banks' owners.
This does not mean all 24 would have gone belly up. Presumably most of the payment orders flowing through the defaulting bank would have been honored in the end; thus, most promises to pay by the bank would eventually have been collectible. But the likely consequence would still have been days or weeks of financial gridlock, in which tens or even hundreds of billions of dollars would have been frozen and hundreds of corporations would have faced a harrowing struggle to find cash.
And while the experts are reluctant to speculate about it on the record, there is a chance a settlement crisis in Chips could interact with a crisis in the securities markets, turning a merely hairy situation into a catastrophe. Imagine, for example, the fallout if Chips had failed to settle according to Hoyle during that awful day in October 1987, when America's stock markets lost $500 billion in value in a single trading session.
One way around this systemic credit risk, suggests Prof. Elinor Solomon, an economist at George Washington University, would be to work out a way to make every payment final the microsecond it is completed. That, in effect, is just what the Federal Reserve does with the transfers on its own electronic system: If a bank cannot settle at the end of the day, the Fed covers its obligations with a loan. Once, it actually made an overnight advance of $23.6 billion -- yes, billion -- to the Bank of New York in order to settle the day's accounts on transfers of Government securities that got fouled up in a software snafu.
This story had a happy ending: The Fed got its money back the next day, with interest at a 7.5 percent annual rate. And truth be told, Uncle Sam was never in danger of ending up out of pocket, because the loan was fully collateralized: the Government securities whose sale had caused all the problems never left the Fed's metaphoric vault. But one might ask what would have happened if a similar accident had occurred on Chips, where daylight overdrafts are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.
The best answer is that this kind of accident could not have happened. Chips payments must be initiated by the payer, making an involuntary, sorcerer's apprentice-style accumulation of overdrafts impossible. Besides, Chips places a cap on the level of debt that may be incurred by any single bank.
THAT STILL LEAVES THE question of how to guard against the Big One, the accident no one imagines before it happens.
Emergency loans to cope with liquidity problems are available to any solvent bank -- that, in fact, is what the Federal Reserve was invented to do. Thus, any American bank that couldn't settle its daily bill with Chips simply because it lacked liquidity would be eligible for a helping hand from Uncle.
Robert E. Hall, an economist at the Hoover Institution in Stanford, Calif., points out that a broader form of Government insurance against default -- even default generated by true insolvency -- is conceivable. But Hall is hardly enthusiastic about assigning a new insurance function to the good folks who brought us the savings-and-loan crisis.
Chips's own answer to the challenge of systemic risk is a combination of "real time" credit surveillance combined with group self-insurance. Each Chips bank now sets a limit on how much it is willing to be owed by every other Chips bank at any moment in the day. And the total amount any single bank can collectively owe to the others is automatically capped. Chips's computers give all member banks, as well as Chips's own staff, the capacity to monitor the ebb and flow as it is happening.
Moreover, since 1990 all the banks have been required to put up securities as collateral against the risk of failure by any other participating bank -- enough, collectively, to cover the risk of three big bank failures. If, say, one member of Chips couldn't come up with $2 billion at settlement time, the others would absorb the losses as a group and then try to get the money back through negotiation or litigation.
E. Gerald Corrigan, the president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, while not "declaring victory," is confident that Chips could now withstand a very large shock. Michael Urkowitz, an executive vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank who is in charge of Chase's mammoth funds-transfer operations, is more emphatic: "I believe in my heart and soul," he says, "that the gridlock potential is small to nil."
What all the experts fear is what they do not know. Could the technology of funds transfer outrace the mechanisms for control, as it may have done in the early years of Chips? Could Wall Street, in its relentless quest for new products to peddle, invent one that unwittingly destabilizes the payments system? Could a competing payments network offshore, operating under other rules in other time zones, generate some perverse synergy that fatally damages Chips?
Almost anything is possible, suggests James Grant, "in a world in which electronic leverage -- the ratio of newfangled photons to old-fashioned banking dollars -- is enormous."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER SYSTEMS (EFTS); DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); CLEARING HOUSE INTERBANK PAYMENTS SYSTEM (CHIPS); CURRENCY; FINANCES SECURE ONLINE TRANSACTIONS (90%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (77%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POSTAL RATES (73%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (66%); MONEY SUPPLY (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



567 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 2; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: DANCE VIEW;
In the Wings, Survival Tactics

BYLINE: By ANNA KISSELGOFF

 BODY:
Whither American Ballet Theater?
If the answer were obvious, the question would not be asked. Yet after months of uncertainty, stemming from an increasingly unmanageable deficit and the resignation of its artistic director, a major American cultural institution has an opportunity for rebirth. It is a renewal that could go beyond mere survival. 
 The appointment earlier this month of Kevin McKenzie as artistic director to succeed Jane Hermann and of Gary Dunning as the company's executive director are excellent choices. Both are Ballet Theater alumni, and while financial constraints might oblige them to administer some questionable shock therapy, they understand the artistic distinctiveness that stems from the company's wide-ranging repertory.
It might be presumptuous to demand that a company in a cash-flow crisis hold on to an uncompromising vision. Yet without that vision -- and one can still define it as rooted in classical technique and esthetic eclecticism -- all is lost. Any drastic reduction in standards might even turn Ballet Theater into a regional troupe that happens to be based in New York. There would be a grim irony here: the little-noticed reality is that Ballet Theater has become the premier victim of the dance boom of the last 25 years. It is the growth of regional ballet that has siphoned support away from Ballet Theater in cities where it was once welcome.
Ballet Theater is still an international-rank ballet company, but it is not necessarily a national ballet company. On the one hand, it retains a world-class stature; the troupe's dancers can hardly be bettered elsewhere today and its repertory includes acknowledged masterpieces. On the other hand, Ballet Theater, which is dependent on touring, can no longer find local producers in many American cities to present it regularly with a guaranteed fee. Today, it is treated as an intruder.
Supporters of regional ballet jealously or protectively (depending on your point of view) look out for their own organizations' interests. Their loyalty and contributions go to the home team.
Is there a big enough audience, especially in a recession, for both Miami City Ballet and Ballet Theater in Miami? Will San Francisco Ballet's patrons give their money to that company, which has a $3 million deficit, or to Ballet Theater, which has a $5 million deficit? With no producer to guarantee a season's fee in such cities, Ballet Theater has now dropped the engagements it was to present under its own financially risky auspices in San Francisco and Chicago.
Admittedly, a national company's ethos does not derive from the financial structure of its tours. Yet when Ballet Theater faced a cash-flow crunch last month and its board of directors did not announce a new artistic director as promised in September, there was no show of alarm from foundations, civic fathers or the dance establishment across the country. (The Washington Post did write an editorial in support.) It is impossible to believe that concern for regional turf was not a factor in this indifference.
As it turns out, Stephen J. Friedman, the Ballet Theater board chairman and a relative newcomer to ballet, along with the board members most active in exploring various options (including a discarded idea for a merger with the Joffrey Ballet) deserve credit on two crucial points: in their insistence that Ballet Theater would continue and in their imagination in seeking out two dark-horse appointees, Mr. McKenzie and Mr. Dunning. (Rumored front-runners were current artistic directors of other companies.)
Mr. McKenzie is one of America's most eloquent classical dancers, a danseur noble with a high degree of versatility. Now retired from dancing, he was a principal with Ballet Theater from 1979 to 1991, after distinguishing himself in the Joffrey and the now-defunct National Ballet of Washington. Mr. Dunning, who will leave his post as the Houston Ballet's executive director, was with Ballet Theater from 1978 to 1986, serving as company manager and general manager.
Both men are 38 and, as Americans, grew up professionally amid the euphoria and the economic realities of the dance boom. When Mikhail Baryshnikov abruptly quit as artistic director in 1989 in a dispute over financial and personnel issues with the board and Ms. Hermann, then his handpicked executive director, he made a telling statement: "Nothing is ever too expensive if it furthers the repertoire and artistic standards of a dance company." It is unlikely that Mr. McKenzie will say the same.
Rather, the danger is that the company will retrench artistically because fiscal wisdom dictates that no major new production proceed until financing is already in place. Plans for a costly new "Swan Lake" for next year have been dropped, and the projected company premiere of Kenneth MacMillan's "Manon" is unlikely for the 1992-93 season.
The shock therapy under consideration, according to those acquainted with internal discussions, is a drop from an $18 million annual budget ($23 million was projected in 1989-90) to one that that will range from $12 million to $15 million. This is close to last season's budgets for regional companies ($16 million for San Francisco Ballet, $11 million for Houston Ballet, $10.7 million for Boston Ballet).
If donors remain reluctant to contribute to Ballet Theater before further cost-cutting measures go into effect, if the number of dancers is drastically reduced and if touring shrinks because of financial risk, the repertory and the standard of dancing will eventually be affected. The reason Ballet Theater has attracted dancers of Mr. Baryshnikov's caliber is that its standards in both dancing and repertory were compatible with his own. He did not join a regional company.
Ballet Theater does, moreover, have a distinct artistic profile, and Mr. McKenzie can be expected to keep to the original generic vision of an eclectic classical company -- a living museum with separate stylistic wings, dominated by no single choreographer.
At its beginnings in 1940, Ballet Theater was anything but a showcase for the 19th-century classics. Rather, new works were welcomed. It will not be surprising if Mr. McKenzie, with his penchant as a dancer for developing characterization, favors premieres that emphasize the "theater" in Ballet Theater.
Mr. Baryshnikov, who succeeded Lucia Chase and Oliver Smith in 1980, was right in believing that the company had to evolve. But he upset the repertory's balance, favoring Soviet-influenced classicism, Balanchinean neo-classicism and modern-dance choreographers who were inexperienced in ballet.
When Jane Hermann became artistic director in 1989-90, with Mr. Smith as co-director, she tried to return to Ballet Theater's roots in dance-drama. She brought back Agnes de Mille's only two enduring ballets ("Rodeo" and "Fall River Legend") and more works by Antony Tudor. Ms. Hermann, who left on Sept. 1, found that audiences preferred full-evening blockbuster ballets to 1940's dance-dramas.
The solution may be new dramatic ballets, but without the dated psychological baggage of earlier narrative works. As a showcase for an experimental dramatic genre, Ballet Theater could encourage young choreographers and entice veterans. Would Jerome Robbins, now technically a freelancer, be interested in working experimentally with his first company? Could the Glen Tetley who created vibrant dramatic works like "Alice" and "La Ronde" for the National Ballet of Canada be inspired to do the same for Ballet Theater?
Can Ballet Theater afford such choreographers? Perhaps the question is whether American choreographers can afford to let Ballet Theater go under. The current crisis stemmed in part from a $575,000 loan made in 1989 to finance Twyla Tharp's unsuccessful ballet "Everlast." Ballet Theater was restricted from obtaining further loans as long as that one remained unpaid.
The lesson is not that American choreographers should work for less than they deserve but that they might, on occasion, agree to work for a little less and without extravagant production values at Ballet Theater. Similarly, a board that has acquired -- rightly or wrongly -- a reputation for not raising needed money might feel inspired if a dialogue were set up between itself and the new artistic regime. What if everyone pulled together on this one?
"The chemistry has never been right at Ballet Theater," Mr. McKenzie says. The ingredients could well be different this time.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of the corps in "La Bayadere" -- Few welcome mats beyond New York. (MIRA/American Ballet Theater)(pg. 1); Kevin McKenzie in "Romeo and Juliet" -- As a dancer, the new artistic director understands the troupe's vision. (MIRA/American Ballet Theater)(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER WASHINGTON POST CO (50%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (99%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (99%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (99%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; FINANCES BALLET (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); THEATER (90%); DANCE (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DANCERS (73%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); 

PERSON: KISSELGOFF, ANNA KEVIN MCKENZIE (65%); GARY DUNNING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



568 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: ART VIEW;
Two Blockbusters For the 90's

BYLINE: By Roberta Smith

 BODY:
It might almost be called the battle of the blockbusters. With much of the Museum of Modern Art taken up by its splendid Matisse exhibition and the Guggenheim Museum nearly filled to the brim with a cacophonous survey of the Russian avant-garde, the museological equivalents of Godzilla and King Kong, or Goya's snarling giants, are looming over Manhattan's cultural skyline.
The coincidence of two big shows is a little surprising, because over the past few years the blockbuster has often seemed like a concept whose time has gone. With the 80's art boom fading and the recession tightening budgets everywhere, it looked as if museums were going to settle in and cultivate their gardens, mounting exhibitions that used their own collections in new and revealing ways. 
 At the moment, that phase seems to have been indefinitely postponed. Both Matisse (400 works) and the Russians (800) are big, big shows that deal in exhaustive detail with
their subjects -- and getting through them can also be exhausting, especially when the galleries are crowded.
Their combined presence provides a chance to consider some of the pluses and minuses of the blockbuster, as well as its vicissitudes since the word gained prominence with the Tutankhamen exhibition at the Metropolitan in 1978. Has it matured or degenerated? More important, whom are these exhibitions for? Do they serve the public or specialists? Is it possible they are getting both bigger and more elitist?
Blockbusters have always varied in scale, scholarly ambition and sheer difficulty. Faced with the large size of the Matisse and Russian shows and the in-depth views they offer of their subjects, it is instructive to remember that the mother of recent New York blockbusters, Tut, contained only about 50 objects. What helped to draw more than a million visitors to the show was the carefully cultivated aura of rarity, power and mystery that surrounded the objects, from the story of the Egyptian boy-king and the dramatic discovery of his virtually intact tomb in the 1920's to the ominous fiction of King Tut's curse.
In the 1980's, blockbusters often seemed fueled by another extra-visual component -- the cult of personality, the artist as a hero whose life story filled the gaps between the paintings. The first and most famous of these was the Modern's huge (1,000 works) and hugely popular Picasso exhibition in 1980, followed by the Met's more modestly scaled (about 100 paintings each) but heavily attended van Gogh exhibitions in 1984 and 1987.
The Matisse and Russian shows are something else again. They are blockbusters that rely less on the popular fascination with the artists' private lives; their scope and detail may actually make them a kind of specialist's spectacle. When visiting these shows, I couldn't help wondering what the public would actually get out of them, although for very different reasons.
With Matisse these reasons are primarily logistical. As the largest and most complete retrospective of the artist's work ever assembled, this show may be the most nearly perfect blockbuster yet. Matisse's art is widely loved, yet the coherence of its many phases has never been spelled out as it is here. The result is a show with immense appeal for everyone, layman and specialist alike. (In more specific terms, the show's completeness will unquestionably be a boon to Matisse scholarship, and, like the Picasso show, it may have a salutary effect on contemporary painting.)
Yet the Matisse show may be done in by its own popularity. The three times I've visited it, crowds have been so thick that it was more like being at the theater during intermission. Only the most intense concentration made picture viewing possible, and it was never very pleasant. (According to a museum spokesman, one reason the show is crowded is that people are spending more time looking at it than was expected when the entrance rate of 500 visitors per half hour was determined.)
At the same time, one can't help wondering whether the public, whose tickets are paying for a large portion of the show's cost, might not actually experience more, esthetically speaking, in a show that occupies the same number of galleries but with fewer works.
The problems of the Russian show are considerably thornier. Billed as the largest survey of its kind, this exhibition of painting, sculpture, drawings, photographs, books, posters, architectural models, ceramics, and fabric and stage designs is an undertaking that essentially buries itself in trivia. In essence, the show is a blockbuster run amok. It contains quantities of mediocre works by obscure artists, is confusingly organized, and requires a fairly sophisticated knowledge of Russian modernism to be even roughly deciphered. Organized by a team of 13 curators and drawn largely from the collections of Russian museums, "The Great Utopia" often resembles an archive -- and not a very good one at that.
But in what may be a new twist in the history of the blockbuster, this exhibition absorbs to a new degree the spectacle that used to surround such exhibitions. In many ways the sometimes dazzling, often intrusive installation designed by the architect Zaha Hadid is the most dominant artwork on view at the Guggenheim. With its enormous protruding beams, irregular walls and large-scale Suprematist-like graphics that mimic the paintings, it conveys the sense of iconoclasm that was at the center of the Russian avant-garde with a force that the actual art in this context often fails to convey.
These two shows also seem emblematic of the institutions that house them. Unfolding in a series of smooth yet clearly articulated phases, chronologically arranged in plain, mostly white rooms, the Matisse retrospective exudes the kind of austere single-mindedness and purifying impulse that is the essence of both the Modern's house style and its particular view of the history of modernism. Just like the great collection that usually fills these same galleries, Matisse's career begins in late-19th-century French post-Impressionism and moves toward an increasingly abstract, large-scale and pictorial statement that culminates in the middle of the 20th.
The Guggenheim's esoteric extravaganza conveys the sense of hollow, yet oddly narrow, showmanship that seems to have overtaken the museum under its present administration. In one sense art is almost incidental to the visual circus set before us in Frank Lloyd Wright's spiral; yet, once beyond the installation, what transpires there is truly and impenetrably a blockbuster for the few, and in that, an oxymoron.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Viewers at the Matisse retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art -- The crowds have been so thick that it's more like being at the theater during intermission. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM (NYC) NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM (NYC) NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; ART SHOWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (55%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA; MATISSE, HENRI (1869-1954) KING TUT (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



569 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: Sweeteners for the Relocated to Sell

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
LIKE many couples scouring the residential real estate market these days, Chuck and Eileen Slater were looking for a steal. They had outgrown and sold their three-bedroom Cape Cod in Ridgewood, N.J., and wanted to take advantage of depressed home prices in the New York metropolitan region.
The Slaters weren't disappointed. After a brief search, they found a four-bedroom, Federal-style home on a third of an acre in Ramsey, N.J., for $340,000. Not exactly a fire-sale price, but substantially lower than comparable homes in the affluent community. 
 "We were very lucky," Mrs. Slater said. "I know I could have turned around and, two weeks later, sold it for at least $15,000 more."
The house the Slaters stumbled on was not in foreclosure or financial distress; rather, it was part of a corporate relocation, a "relo" in industry argot. It had been owned by an I.B.M. employee who had been transferred to Atlanta.
Relocation homes have never been a large part of the resale market; only about 350,000 home sales, or 10 to 15 percent of the market, involve corporate relocations each year.
Moreover, the number of transfers appears to be declining as companies, hard hit by the recession, become more cost conscious. An employee transfer can cost up to $100,000; the average was $44,804 in 1991, according to Runzheimer Reports, a travel and relocation research newsletter published in Rochester, Wis.
In recent years, relocation policies at many companies have been changed to give employees greater financial incentives to sell their homes rather than have them taken over by their company or by a concern specializing in relocation management.
By paying bonuses to employees who sell their own homes, companies hope to minimize the expenses of owning and maintaining an inventory of housing.
Figures on the number of homes owned by relocation companies, or by concerns that have transferred employees, are not made public. Sometimes, however, major corporate moves can have a noticeable effect in a specific area. This was the case in recent months after United Parcel Service moved its corporate headquarters from Greenwich, Conn., to Atlanta and W.R. Grace & Company moved its main offices from Manhattan to Boca Raton, Fla.
"Generally, relocation homes are very good opportunities for the general consumer," said John Featherston, publisher of National Relocation and Real Estate magazine in Westport, Conn.
STEVEN E. BETTI, an amusement-games distributor, believes he saved 10 percent off the price of a two-bedroom condominium that he bought for $122,000 last May in Tenafly, N.J. It had been owned by a transferred I.B.M. employee and been vacant for four months. Mr. Betti, 32 years old, said he had found it after telling a broker he was looking for something that had been repossessed, was in foreclosure or was being offered for sale by a corporate relocation company.
The unit Mr. Betti bought had been appraised at $135,000. "You always hear about these great bargains out there," he said. "Well, I'm comfortable with what I paid. I don't feel like I did too bad at all."
For the most part, when an employee who owns a home is transferred, he or she has up to 60 or 90 days to sell the home. If it is sold at a loss, the company, in many cases, reimburses the employee for some or all of the loss; if the home doesn't sell, the company buys it at the current appraised value. Meanwhile, the company hires a relocation company to manage and market the home. Any loss incurred in selling the home, plus the maintenance costs, will be absorbed by the company.
The cost of an employee's selling his own home is estimated by Runzheimer Reports to be 11.3 percent of the cost of the sale price. That figure includes broker fees, taxes and the 1.5 to 2 percent fee paid to the relocation company for marketing assistance. If a company acquires the home, however, the cost jumps to 23.3 percent.
"A lot of our efforts nowadays are geared to helping transferred employee sell their home before we have to acquire it," said Rick Schwartz, a senior vice president at Prudential Relocation Management in White Plains, which handles corporate transferees. "About 60 percent get sold that way -- five years ago it might have been 40 percent."
Relocation homes may look particularly attractive these days because companies have started offering employees financial incentives to sell their homes themselves rather than let the company and a corporate relocation service, such as Prudential or PHH Home Equities of Wilton, Conn., take them over for the current appraised value.
From a buyer's standpoint, homes in and around communities that house large corporations, such as Greenwich, Stamford and Danbury, Conn., White Plains and Princeton, N.J., are hotbeds of corporate relocations. "They are also liable to be based anywhere in the New York metropolitan area," said Gary Daniels, a vice president for marketing services at Coldwell Banker Schlott Realtors in Wayne, N.J.
The particulars of one of the most important parts of a relocation package, "loss on sale" policies, vary just as widely.
The Union Carbide Corporation in Danbury, for instance, offers a bonus up to 3 percent of the appraised price if an employee sells a home within 60 days for a price not less than 98 percent and not more than 103 percent of the appraised price.
If the sale or appraisal price, with or without the bonus, is less than the original purchase price plus improvements, the company makes up the entire difference. If the home is not sold, the company pays the employee the original purchase price, plus the cost of improvements.
"They are actively marketing the houses now that they have the chance of a bonus," said Irene F. Romano, a relocation administrator for Union Carbide. "In the past, they just sat back and waited for their 100 percent from Prudential." Ms. Romano added that in recent years the company had modified its relocation policy as it pertained to homeowners. "It used to be that if you added a doorknob, it was an improvement," she said. "No more."
She also said that Union Carbide executives were now studying whether to place caps on its unusually generous policy of guaranteeing transferred employees the original purchase price of their home. "We have had some very big 'losses on sales,' " she said.
AT W.R. Grace, which last summer moved 250 employees from Manhattan to Boca Raton, Fla., the relocation policy was similar to Union Carbide's, except that it placed caps on the amount of a loss on sale that the company would reimburse. The maximum was $45,000 -- 100 percent of the first $20,000, 75 percent of the next $20,000 and 50 percent of the next $20,000.
The policy is less generous at I.B.M., which has its worldwide headquarters in Valhalla, N.Y., and 11,000 employees based in Westchester County. The company has no "loss on sale" program for transferred employees, although it does provide an incentive bonus of 1 percent of the appraised price of the house to employees who sell on their own rather than have the company take over the home.
Company officials said the lack of a "loss on sale" program was not disturbing to most I.B.M. employees because transfers generally involved career advancement or long-term opportunities.
"The majority of employees do not take a loss," said Suzane W. Parker, manager of relocation and expense reimbursement services for Workforce Solutions in Purchase, N.Y., an I.B.M. subsidiary in charge of transferring 4,000 to 5,000 people a year. "Overall, it is still a positive situation."
A markedly different policy was in effect last year at United Parcel Service, whose move to Atlanta involved about 700 employees and 400 employee-owned homes. There, if employees took a loss and sold the home themselves, and the price was greater than or equal to the appraised value, they received up to 100 percent of the loss, up to $133,000. If they could not sell the home, and the company bought it for the appraised price, only 75 percent of the loss was reimbursed. A similar policy is in place for transferred employees.
"My neighbor worked for I.B.M. and was being transferred at the same time," said John H. Flick, an international public relations manager at U.P.S. "He was ready to kill me because we were letting our house go for so low."
Mr. Flick was one of the many home-sellers facing a loss. He had bought a three-bedroom ranch in Danbury for $220,000 in 1988. In 1991, the house was appraised at $200,000. He sold it for $190,000 and was reimbursed $30,000 for his loss. "I jumped at it," he said, adding that his home in Atlanta, which cost about the same as his old home in Danbury, was more than twice the size -- 3,600 versus 1,600 square feet. He is also 10 minutes from work as opposed to an hour when he lived in Connecticut.
In the last year, the Danbury area, in northern Fairfield County, may have been one of the attractive areas for buyers seeking the homes of corporate transferees. Because of the high cost of housing in Greenwich and lower Fairfield County, many U.P.S. workers lived in the Danbury area.
"AT one point there was a whole page of U.P.S. homes for sale in the newspaper, 90 people," Mr. Flick said. "And people all knew we were moving all at once. It was almost like a fire sale. People were making ridiculously low offers."
Of 50 U.P.S. homes being offered for sale by William Raveis Real Estate in Danbury, 49 were sold by their owners before going into inventory.
"They were very, very negotiable," said Karlene M. Anderson, real estate agent with Raveis in Danbury. "U.P.S. wanted to get rid of the homes and didn't want them in inventory as a 'relo' home."
To find a home being offered for sale by either a relocating executive or a corporate relocation company, prospective buyers need only mention the possibility to a real estate broker or contact one of the relocation companies for a list of homes in their inventory. Prudential, PHH Home Equities and Coldwell Banker/Relocation One are three of the largest.
"It was something that I didn't even think about when we started looking," Mrs. Slater said, referring to homes being sold by corporate transferees. "My father is a realtor and he went through all the books for us, and he found this one. It looked picture perfect and with the price it was almost too good to be true."
"But if I were looking again," she added, "this would be something that I would definitely pursue first."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chuck and Eileen Slater purchased their four-bedroom house in Ramsey, N.J., for $340,000. Because the house was part of a corporate relocation, they believe the price was lower than that of comparable area homes. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 
Drawing (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GRA (NYSE) (63%); UPS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (63%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (52%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (85%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: W R GRACE & CO (63%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (85%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL REAL ESTATE (93%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (88%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); REPOSSESSION (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); PUBLISHING (69%); BONUS PAY (67%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK STEVEN E BETTI (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



570 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Conference in Newark;
Urban Housing

 BODY:
The often vexing problem of providing low-income housing while retaining and attracting middle-income residents is a challenge shared by municipalities across the country.
To examine how design can be part of the solution to these and other prickly urban-housing problems, the New Jersey Institute of Technology School of Architecture in Newark will be host at a daylong conference next Friday. 
 "We will be asking, 'What are the physical models and what is the new thinking in terms of urban policy, that can be applied to creating low-income housing?' " said Tony Schuman, a professor of architecture at the school and chairman of the housing conference.
Conference panelists will include municipal housing officials, architects and planners, as well as builders and developers from across the country. Professor Schuman expects the debates to be lively because of the diversity of opinions and approaches to housing development taken by conference participants.
The conference, which will begin at 9 A.M., will be held in the School of Architecture Campbell Hall gallery at Warren Street and Martin Luther King Boulevard in the University Heights section of Newark. The registration fee, which includes lunch, is $30. For further information call Renada Woodford at the School of Architecture, (201) 596-3080.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE CAMPBELL HALL (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE CAMPBELL HALL (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEWARK (NJ) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); 

PERSON: TONY SCHUMAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



571 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Co-op Loans;
Refinance Eases for Buildings

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
THERE'S been a slight thaw in the icy attitude lenders have been taking lately toward co-op buildings eager to refinance their underlying mortgages.
"I think the worst is over," said Harry Avradinis, president of NYM Capital Group of Manhattan, mortgage brokers. 
 New options are available for both buildings where all the units are owner-occupied and those where most are still owned by the sponsor. But it remains a highly restricted market compared to the heady days of the 80's, and a lot still hinges on where the building is, its physical condition and the sponsor's financial strength.
One harbinger, Mr. Avradinis said, came this fall when his company refinanced the mortgages of two large Manhattan co-ops in both of which 52 percent of the shares were still owned by a sponsor. Typically, 50 percent has been the cut-off line above which it was impossible to interest a new lender.
He had the same experience, he said, with a co-op in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn where only 39 percent of shares had been sold. However, in all instances the sponsor had a positive cash flow.
Irrespective of whether the units are sold out, lawyers are increasingly suggesting that co-op boards search for a willing lender through a mortgage broker.
"It's becoming too time-consuming to do it any other way," said Marcie Waterman, a New York City lawyer specializing in co-ops.
For one, it's tough for an outsider to find out which lenders remain in this market and their current eligibility requirements. And many newer ones are relatively unknown because they are from out of state or upstate.
However, because lenders aren't competing heavily for this market, the co-op will have to pay the broker -- traditionally a lender's responsibility. Expect to be charged about 1 percent of the loan amount. Some, such as Patrick B. Niland, managing partner of First Funding of Rochester, may offer to negotiate a slightly lower flat amount.
Boards should also select someone with experience in this type of lending, since it remains an arcane area requiring specialized knowledge, Ms. Waterman said.
Co-ops that are at least 70 percent sold out and whose loan requirements are less than 50 percent of the building's value will be offered many opportunities and attractive terms, maintained Gregg Winter, president of Winter & Company Mortgage Services of Brooklyn. Not only are interest rates at a historic low, but also points are being waived for many loans over $500,000.
That is important because the drop in overall costs could also reduce maintenance fees, making the difference between a negative and positive cash flow for the sponsor and between acceptance or rejection, said Mr. Avradinis.
Mr. Winter said that an even more significant drop in debt service could be achieved if the building were willing to reconsider the customary strategy of taking out a fixed-rate loan each time its 10-year term was up.
Instead, he recommended switching to a variable rate loan tied to the prevailing prime rate. Although he concedes this is a radical departure that carries some risk should rates rise precipitously, the advantage, he maintains, will be twofold. First, the interest rate could immediately drop to less than 7 percent instead of 8 or 9 percent. Second, the extra saving could be crucial to controlling maintenance fees, especially if the building is simultaneously facing sharply rising taxes from the phasing out of its J51 tax abatement -- as many now are.
THE second benefit is that the floating rate would not carry the punitive prepayment penalties that in the last few years have become standard for co-op underlying mortgages -- penalties so onerous that it's now almost impossible to consider refinancing until each 10-year term is complete, Mr. Winter said. And if rates start to inch up, the co-op would have kept the right to change to a fixed rate without facing major penalties.
Such an approachis also useful, he maintained, if the co-op's financial circumstances are in flux. For instance, in September it became the loan of choice, he said, for a 120-unit co-op on the Upper East Side that was about to sell first-floor retail space. The co-op planned to use the proceeds from the sale to reduce its current loan balance of $4 million. But the sale was not due for a year.
This way, Mr. Winter said, the co-op could take advantage of low rates by refinancing now while keeping open its option to pay off some of the loan next year without penalties.
Another wrinkle, said Gary Kokalari, vice president of Washington Mortgage Financial Group of Jersey City, is a greater willingness by some bankers to accept a special escrow to cover a sponsor's negative cash flow, rather than simply turning the building down. Similar compromises are being worked out when a sponsor refuses to divulge his personal finances.
For instance, Mr. Winter recently negotiated this sort of compromise for the 23-unit co-op at 75 Prospect Park West in Park Slope. The sponsor's apartments were bringing in rents that were $30,000 a year short of the amount he owed the co-op for maintenance. An escrow of $100,000 was set up to cover at least a three-year shortfall should he not be able to meet his obligations.
Being able to get a commitment from a regular lender can also help a co-op get better terms from any private underlying loan a sponsor might have been holding. That's what an eight-unit loft co-op on Crosby Street in SoHo did. The sponsor was holding the underlying mortgage of $170,000 and had been unwilling to lower interest rates below 10 percent, figuring the building had no other choice.
But after great difficulty, when it did find someone else, said Anthony Orphanos, the co-op's treasurer, they were able to get the sponsor to provide even more competitive terms, including no prepayment penalties. Mortgage costs have thus fallen from $4,500 a year per unit to $3,000, even though the co-op added $50,000 to the loan amount for capital improvements.
However, since lenders are still uneasy about underlying mortgages in general, co-ops must take extra care to put their financial houses in order.
Many lenders quickly lose interest, Mr. Niland warned, when boards don't have the necessary figures at their fingertips. "Do your homework," he said. "Know exactly how many units are owner-occupied" and how many are being sublet, he added, warning that this number is now being added to the sponsor's total. It also helps if the budget shows a modest annual surplus.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (90%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (90%); CO-OP '82 UA (90%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (90%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (90%); CO-OP STAR RT (90%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (90%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (90%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (90%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (90%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (90%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (90%); CAPITAL GROUP COS INC (58%); CAPITAL GROUP INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; COOPERATIVES MORTGAGE REFINANCING (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); CASH FLOW (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE GREGG WINTER (78%); HARRY AVRADINIS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



572 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Perspectives: Shopping Centers;
Stores Pick Up the Construction Slack

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
IN the normal pattern of growth, housing comes first and the stores follow. Normality is prevailing in the western reaches of the North Shore of Staten Island.
On a flat 10 acres off Forest Avenue where the Weissglass family once ran a dairy, the developer Sanford Nalitt has started to build a strip shopping center called Forest Plaza. Its largest store will be a 52,000-square-foot A.&P. In addition there will be 110,000 square feet for other stores, nearly half of it spoken for already, said Mr. Nalitt. Separating the stores from the avenue will be an unlandcaped stretch of 3.7 acres where 660 cars will be able to park. 
 Sanford Nalitt & Associated Companies owns and runs about 3.5 million square feet of shopping centers in New York State, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. About 10 percent of that space is on Staten Island, where Mr. Nalitt was born and has his main office. "I've seen opportunities under my nose," he said.
Recession notwithstanding, the opportunity-sniffers have continued to prowl the broad stretch of Staten Island from Mariners Harbor on the north to New Springville in the dead center of the island. Thirty years ago, with support from the Department of City Planning, developers planted the Staten Island Mall in New Springville, a regional mall anchored by a Macy's and a Sears department store.
A new highway network serving it was under development at the time and the area has since grown as anticipated as a population center. Housing, in that instance, followed commercial development.
Now the Staten Island Mall itself is expanding. The Rouse Company of Columbia, Md., which bought the mall in 1980, is building a 180,000-square-foot J.C. Penney's as a third anchor, and adding an additional 130,000 square feet of gross leasable space in the mall for about 50 more stores. There are already 165 tenants in the mall, the largest in the city.
The Forest Plaza project, in the Mariners Harbor section of Staten Island, is in a location filled with town houses built in the decade of the 80's. Sales of new homes are still under way at two of them, Woodmont West and Chester Place. But it is only at the shopping-center site that construction is in progress. Home sales are slow.
Mr. Nalitt's project itself might not be under way had he not been able to find financing for it from other than his accustomed institutional backers. The $16.5 million construction and permanent loan for Forest Plaza came from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Building Investment Trust, which was launched in 1988 to promote jobs and economic development through union pension fund investments in commercial and industrial real estate.
Mr. Nalitt had been accustomed to financing from lines of credit with Chemical Bank and Marine Midland Bank. "For five years he wouldn't even come to me," said Marilyn Brown of American Asset Advisers, a mortgage banking firm in Staten Island, through whom the developer found the lender. The loan was made in March when the development was 67 percent preleased.
In Chicago, John Tung, senior vice president of Draper & Kramer Realty Advisers, investment advisers to the trust, said that the fund had grown to $200 million of lending capacity in four years and has approved $160 million in loans to 16 projects, including one to a 50,000-square-foot shopping center called Rose City Plaza in Madison, N.J. It was completed two years ago.
Financing problems were not the only impediment to construction at Forest Plaza. It took New York City three and a half years to rezone the land to permit a supermarket. The zoning was industrial because of the presence of the dairy the last time the city adopted a comprehensive new zoning ordinance, in 1961. The lease with A.&P. was actually signed in 1985.
"The attitude in the city was that they were just too busy," Mr. Nalitt said. "Staten Island could not get approvals."
THE mall is now scheduled to open next August. Tenants already committed include Sav-On Drugs, Fashion Bug and Fabco Shoes. Rents are typically $16 and $22 a square foot for larger stores and in the low $30-a-square-foot area for smaller stores.
The tenants at Forest Plaza are for the most part expanding from other Staten Island locations, but not relocating existing stores, said Richard Pesin, who is handling leasing at Forest Plaza for Sanford Nalitt.
The unlandscaped parking area will have the dismal appearance typical of New York City's midsized shopping centers. Architects themselves express dismay over this, but without minimum standards established in a zoning ordinance by the City Planning Commission improvement is unlikely.
The J.C. Penney store coming to the Staten Island Mall is a relocation from an older shoping center in the Westerleigh section of Staten Island. The mall has a 239,500-square-foot Macy's store and a 190,500-square-foot Sears store already, plus 165 mall tenants in 409,000 square feet of space. The property covers 112 acres off Richmond Avenue and has open parking for 5,600 cars. That will be increased by 1,000 spaces.
The expansion creates an extension at the center of the existing structure, into vacant land behind it. The new parking will mainly replace the grassy 400-foot buffer that now attractively separates the parking lot from Richmond Avenue. That landscaped buffer will shrink to about 40 feet.
Leasing of the new mall space began two years ago, said Benjamin Levine, manager of the mall, and about 80 percent of the 130,000 square feet of mall space is committed. Among the tenants to have signed leases so far are Express, Victoria's Secret and Structure, all affiliated stores of The Limited Inc., of Columbus, Ohio; B. Dalton bookstore and Merry-Go-Round, a clothing store. The mall is expected to have 50 stores.
THE project will employ about 500 people over the course of construction, said Charles Bacon, the project executive for Lehrer McGovern Bovis, the construction manager for Rouse. The economic climate for building "could not be better," he said, meaning that the slow economy has produced favorable subcontractor prices. But The Rouse Company refused to disclose what construction would cost.
The two commercial projects have compensated modestly for what has been a sharp turndown in new home construction on Staten Island. The sluggishness of sales is evident directly on the border of the Forest Plaza center, where home builders have sites for new homes.
At Woodmont West, Woodmont Development Corporation, headed by Morty Simon and his son, Neil, set out to build 287 town houses on the site in 1986 and 270 of them have been built, sold and occupied. This year, however, prices are down substantially from the level a few years ago. A three-bedroom house that sold for $155,000 at one time is priced at $130,000 now, Mr. Simon said. A three-story house that sold for $190,000 initially sells for $160,000.
Sales are plugging along at a rate that could keep the Simons on the land for five more years, Mr. Simon said, although he still hopes to be finished in two or three.
"We build in groups," he said. "Four months ago we began a group of seven after four or five sales, and now six are sold. It's a juggling act deciding when to start a group, a lot more difficult than when we had people lining up to buy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rendering of Forest Plaza, inset, top, shopping center being built on Forest Avenue. (Schuman Lichtenstein Claman Efron Architects); The Staten Island Mall, inset, bottom, will get a J.C. Penney's and additional stores in the area within the dotted line. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GGP (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (66%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND MALL (NYC) GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (66%); CHEMICAL BANK (50%); HSBC BANK USA NA (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATEN ISLAND MALL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CITIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S SANFORD NALITT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



573 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 19; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: DINING OUT;
Low Prices in a High-Rent Location

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

 BODY:
THE former Le Peep's in the center of Greenwich has, with new ownership, been transformed into Ashton's. The setting in the long dining room is restrained, with floral and ship prints on pale orchid walls, burgundy carpet and matching tablecloths, and dining areas separated by lattice dividers.
The place retains elements of the old Le Peep's menu at breakfast and lunch, but dinner is somewhat more interesting, with a few pizzas and pastas, as well as a half dozen other entrees. What is amazing about Ashton's, considering its high-rent location on Greenwich's major shopping street, are its low prices. Entrees for $6 to $12 represent good value anywhere in Fairfield County, but seem especially so in Greenwich. 
 There are a few appetizers, the best being the asparagus constellation: fresh asparagus spears wrapped in thinly sliced prosciutto and blanketed in a tangy, smoky cream sauce made with Connecticut smoked pepperjack cheese. Crab cakes (two lumpy ones that looked as though a small child had modeled them from clay) were well-seasoned, but were, unfortunately, borderline-burned.
We fared better with our entrees. Mexicali ravioli consisted of a generous portion of cheese ravioli in a delicious Parmesan cream sauce, enlivened by fresh corn niblets, jalapeno peppers chopped fine to give well-balanced heat and kick, and red pepper strips latticed on top. A hint of cilantro finished it off.
Broiled red snapper basked in the zing of a tri-citrus white wine-butter sauce and was light, moist and tasty. Unfortunately, also on the plate was a mahogany-brown baked potato that had seen better days.
On one occasion our spirits were revved by a goat cheese pizza piled generously with a fresh sharp goat cheese, chunks of sun-dried tomatoes, green pepper strips and a plum tomato sauce, all tasty enough for us to overlook the canned black olives.
Southwestern pizza -- a combination of Italian sausage (not chorizo, as stated on the menu), green peppers and Connecticut smoked pepperjack cheese -- was zesty, though the addition of jalapenos might have given it more southwest pizazz.
Oddly, though Ashton's sells pizza to take out, on the one occasion when we tried it, it was cut into slices and packed in a plastic foam box. When we tried to remove it from the box to reheat it, the slices, separated by pieces of wax paper, stuck to the paper, creating a real mess that made it impossible to separate, heat or eat. In short, we paid $10 for an inedible six-layer paper-and-pizza whatzit.
Desserts -- chocolate cake and cheesecake -- were commercial and could be skipped.
A three-course dinner for two came to $34. Beverages, tax and gratuity were extra. There is no bar, but wine and beer are available. Service can be erratic and slow. But for an inexpensive meal, Ashton's may be just what a shopper strolling along Greenwich Avenue is looking for.
 
A LA CARTE
 As some of New York City's top restaurants are treading the economic downturn by offering prix fixe menus, L'Abbee, at 62 Main Street in New Canaan, may be starting a similar trend in Connecticut. The small, elegant restaurant now offers a $34 prix fixe dinner Sunday through Thursday evenings. The price includes appetizer, entree, dessert and coffee; in each category there are several choices, making this a very good deal indeed as most entrees alone run from $18 to the mid-$20s. Lunch is now served Friday and Saturday only, with brunch on Sunday. Telephone: 972-6181.
Pompano Grille, at 1460 Post Road East in Westport, has changed its name to Pompano Oyster Bar and Seafood Grill. A recent visit suggests that nothing new has been added except for a raw bar (called an oyster bar), featuring oysters and clams on the half shell and lobster and shrimp in the rough. Decor, price structure and seafood dishes (with a few chicken and beef entrees) seem much as they were. Even the staff has the same "otherwise engaged" air that prevailed during past visits. There is just one oyster dish on the menu (other than at the raw bar), a baked oyster appetizer. Telephone: 259-1160.
 
Ashton's
 Satisfactory
48 Greenwich Avenue (between U.S. 1 and Railroad Avenue), Greenwich; 869-0161.
Atmosphere: A long narrow room with orchid walls, burgundy carpet and tablecloths, and lattice area dividers.
Service: Cheerful, but slow and can be scattered.
Recommended dishes: Asparagus constellation, goat cheese pizza, Mexicali ravioli, red snapper.
Price range: Lunch entrees $5-$7; dinner entrees $8-$12.
Credit cards: All major cards.
Hours: Breakfast 6:30 A.M.-4 P.M. daily; lunch 11 A.M.-4 P.M. daily; dinner 4 P.M.-10 P.M. daily.
Reservations: Accepted but unnecessry.
Wheelchair access: Ground-level access, but restrooms up two flights.
 
Ratings:
Poor
Satisfactory
Good
Very Good
Excellent
Extraordinary
 Ratings are based on the reviewer's reaction to food and price in relation to comparable establishments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ASHTON'S (RESTAURANT)

ORGANIZATION: ASHTON'S (RESTAURANT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (89%); CHEESE (89%); MENU PRICES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (69%); BEER & ALE (63%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, PATRICIA

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



574 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 11; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Youngsters Vote in a Presidential Poll

BYLINE: By ALBERT J. PARISI

DATELINE: HACKENSACK

 BODY:
At Mike's Barber Shop here, the price of a haircut invariably includes a freewheeling, good-humored debate on politics and national affairs. Regular customers expect it, and some customers are drawn by it.
Now 49-year-old Michael Sutlovich Jr. has transformed his basement shop here into a continuing civics lesson for those customers whose votes don't count -- not yet, at least. 
 He has adorned the shop in red, white and blue bunting and balloons. A large American flag covers one wall. Another wall bears Clinton-Gore and Bush-Quayle posters, along with a hand-printed Perot sign. The centerpiece, though, is a ballot box for his young customers to support their favorite candidates.
"Kids have opinions, pretty strong ones too," Mr. Sutlovich said, "and, hey, we're talking about the future leaders of our country here. People think: 'Kids, what do they know?' But I'll tell you, they're pretty sharp, they're honest, and what they have to say is refreshing."
Over a six-week period ending last Tuesday, 265 customers, age 8 to 17, cast their ballots as follows: 128, or about 48 percent, for President Bush, and 135, or about 51 percent, for Gov. Bill Clinton. Ross Perot received 2 votes.
 
Request to Change Vote
 "I had one kid, a little girl, who voted for the President," said Mr. Sutlovich, a Lake Hiawatha resident who 27 years ago started cutting hair in a basement shop at Packard's, a supermarket housed in a former textile mill. "She comes in the next day, all upset, and asks to change her vote to Clinton. It turns out that her father had just been laid off from his job."
One recent afternoon, Maria Matina, a 12-year-old from Paramus, said she had voted for Mr. Clinton because the President had not kept his promise about reducing taxes. Her mother, Vincenzina, nodded in agreement as her daughter dropped her ballot into the makeshift box.
Dominic Cutri, 11, of Parsippany said his parents did not always vote, despite the sixth grader's efforts to get them to the polls.
"I think that it's important because in other countries people don't have a choice to make," he said. "The choice is made for them."
Nicholas Lapolla, 12, of Hackensack said Ross Perot was "the country's only real choice" on Election Day. "President Bush hasn't gotten anything done, and Clinton just wants to raise taxes," he said. "Perot will raise taxes too, I think, but not as much. Either way, I think he's got more on the ball than the others."
 
'Warm-Up for the Real Thing'
 For Theresa DiStasi, who turns 18 on Friday , the chance to vote in Mr. Sutlovich's unofficial poll while she was still 17 was "a warm-up for the real thing" and a welcome chance to seriously weigh the issues. Many adults, Ms. DiStasi said, feel that teen-agers are "too inexperienced" and that their votes have little meaning. That opinion, she says, does not apply to her.
"I think that the Republicans have done enough damage to our economy and that Bush's version of Reaganomics has taken its toll," she said. "When I step into that voting booth in November, for me it's the real thing, and I've taken the time to study what I'm voting for. I'm exercising my right to make a difference."
Mr. Sutlovich's poll was born from the comment of a lively 10-year-old customer, he said.
"I'm cutting this kid's hair and I asked, 'So, who would you vote for in November?' He looks me right in the eye and says, 'Oh, I'm a Bush man. Four more years and he'll have the country back on its feet,' " Mr. Sutlovich said.
He said he was so impressed by the boy's intensity that the following day he fashioned a ballot box.
"In a lot of these schools, kids don't get taught about issues and the special things that make this country great," Mr. Sutlovich said, "and a lot of them don't know or care who the heck is running. I want to give them a chance to think and make a choice, to know that what they say in time will mean something."
Mr. Sutlovich said that if the three major candidates wanted more debate time, he would gladly offer them a forum at his shop. "Hey, I've got three barber's chairs," he said, "if they don't mind a close shave on the issues."
Because of the ailing economy, Mr. Sutlovich said, many of his customers are in trouble. "It's unbelievable," he said. "People sometimes come in here in tears. I feel like I'm a priest." He mentioned a customer who had helped with his grandson's education.
"Here's this kid with an M.B.A. in his pocket now and no job," Mr. Sutlovich said. "You know what he is doing now? He's got a paper route. True story! Maybe he should have learned Japanese."
Mr. Sutlovich said that he learned at a young age, growing up in the Hell's Kitchen area of Manhattan, that voting counts. His father, he said, was a union organizer in New York City's garment district in the 1940's when sweatshops operated with little interference from the law.
"My father, he died a poor man, but he went to his grave knowing that people deserved a better life," he said. "The right to vote made it happen for them, especially if they voted from their hearts."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HACKENSACK (NJ) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CHILDREN AND YOUTH PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); BARBER SHOPS (78%); LAYOFFS (68%); 

PERSON: SUTLOVICH, MICHAEL; PARISI, ALBERT J; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



575 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2505 words

HEADLINE: Women's Progress Stalled? Just Not So

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
You've heard it often: The 1980's were the backlash years, when Ronald Reagan and George Bush trashed affirmative action, feminism went out of fashion and the news media convinced women that they couldn't have it all. The implication is that women's economic progress stalled.
Widely accepted though it may be, that last assumption is mostly wrong. A fresh body of research -- mostly by a new generation of female economists who've mined a mountain of unexplored data -- shows compellingly that women were big economic winners in the 1980's expansion and that their gains are likely to keep coming in the 1990's regardless of who is in the White House. 
 From the top of the pay scale to the bottom, from stock traders earning six-figure bonuses to $5-an-hour sales clerks, women gained on men in the 1980's. While the median annual salary for men slid 8 percent after inflation between 1979 and 1990, to $28,843 from $31,315, the comparable salary for women rose 10 percent, to $20,656 from $18,683.
The most basic measure of women's status in the work force -- the number of cents women earn for each dollar of men's earnings -- rose to a record 72 cents in 1990. Conventional wisdom -- enshrined in the best-selling book "Backlash: The Undeclared War Against American Women," among other places -- has it that women made no progress in the past decade. In fact, women were stuck earning around 60 cents to the men's dollar from 1960 through 1980, but started catching up fast as the economy expanded during the 1980's.
Things look even better for young women, ages 24 to 35. They now earn 80 cents for every dollar earned by men of the same age, up from 69 cents in 1980.
Far from losing ground, women gained more in the 1980's than in the entire postwar era before that -- and almost as much as between 1890 and 1980.
"We're moving toward a more egalitarian society," said Heidi Hartmann, an economist and the director of the Institute for Women's Policy Research, a feminist research organization based in Washington.
Of course, women's pay is still far below men's. Why? The short answer is that, on average, women are still entering lower-paying occupations than men. They still work fewer hours, are less educated and have less job experience and fewer of the skills -- from selling cars to programming computers -- that are most valued.
Remember, too, that the 54 million American women in the work force include several generations. The 35-year-old pharmacist or lawyer with 10 years on the job is lumped together with her mother who graduated from high school, left the work force at 20 and returned to a minimum-wage job at a local store.
 
A Solid, n Enduring Trend
 Apple-to-apple comparisons give a far different impression. Women in economics with Ph.D.'s, for example, earn between 95 percent and 99 percent as much as male peers with the same experience.
That is not to say that all is well. Bosses and co-workers still discriminate, husbands still hold back their wives' careers by not doing their share at home, and there is a new set of anxieties, like guilt about combining work and motherhood. And, just as with men, some women are working less because they want to than because they have to, especially in tough economic times.
But the economists studying women's pay emphasize that the significance of the gains of recent years should not be lost. An understanding of how things have changed in the past decade could improve women's confidence in what lies ahead. And ignoring these facts could discourage younger women from achieving all they can. "If you continue to see yourself as a society that's not doing well by women," said Karlyn Keene, a public opinion expert at the American Enterprise Institute, "the implication is that it could become a self-fulfilling prophecy."
In contrast to the temporary increase in women's pay during World War II that ended abruptly when the boys came home and the women were laid off, today's gains in women's pay reflect solid, enduring trends.
For one thing, women now expect not only to work most of their lives but alo to reap greater rewards. Millions therefore have chosen to stay in school longer, train for higher-paying occupations, have fewer children and just plain work longer and harder. Women are entering male-dominated professions from management and medicine to law enforcement and construction work. Sex segregation by occupation, which hadn't budged for a century, is beginning to break down.
Meanwhile, the explosive growth of services, which still employ the overwhelming majority of women, has sheltered clerks, nurses and salespeople, while the savage restructuring of Smokestack America has clobbered blue-collar men. For the first time since women joined the paid labor force in large numbers, their unemployment rate is consistently lower than men's.
"What made the 1980's distinctive is that everything started to come together for women," said Francine Blau, an economist at the University of Illinois.
That's not how many people see it.
Some feminists stress the politically hostile climate. "All we got was a few little crumbs," said Pat Reuss, a lobbyist at the National Organization for Women's legal defense fund. Conservative Republicans fret that working mothers helped fray the family. And liberal Democrats tend to lump women with men as victims of Reaganomics.
Even President Bush, the free-market president, isn't bragging about this apparent triumph of free-market economics and fairness. To explain why the President isn't trying to win votes from working women by talking up the shrinking pay gap, Labor Secretary Lynn Martin said, "It's difficult to argue that women have come a long way when everybody -- women and men -- is worried about losing jobs."
But the real reason that women's relative success doesn't fit neatly into anyone's political script may be that change happened not so much through powerful institutions in Washington as on a grass-roots level, in the hearts and minds of women.
 
The Researchers
 The new analysis of American women's gains in the workplace emerges from recently published books, including "Understanding the Gender Gap: An Economic History of American Women," by Claudia Goldin, a Harvard economist, and "The Economics of Women, Men and Work," by Ms. Blau with Marianne Ferber of the University of Illinois. The findings also come from studies of women's wages by June O'Neill, an economist at Baruch College in New York City. The economists tapped data -- in censuses, health records and labor reports -- spanning two centuries.
In three periods in the past 200 years, women have made giant strides toward pay equality. One was during the Industrial Revolution, in the mid-19th century, when farm girls streamed into factories. The second was during the rise of the corporation and the white-collar work force in the first few decades of this century, when young, unmarried, middle-class women headed for offices. The third is happening now.
True, women's pay did slip a bit last year, to 70 cents for each dollar earned by men. But the dip was probably due to the recession. Unemployment jumped a lot more for men than women, and because proportionately more low-paid men lost their jobs, the average of men's pay looks a little higher.
As the economy recovers, women are expected to close the pay gap, many economists say. "If women get 1980's-type growth, they'll do better than men," Ms. Hartmann said, noting that women's skills and experience are growing faster than men's.
While figures on annual pay showed a widening pay gap last year, data on weekly pay -- a more inclusive measure than the one that counts those who worked all year -- shows female pay still rising as a percentage of male pay, to 75 cents per dollar.
What made the pay gap shrink and why do economists think it will keep narrowing?
Young women's expectations about work underwent a sea change between the late 1960's and the early 1970's. The first wave of baby boomers, who were high school and college students in the late 1960's, did not expect to spend much of their adult lives on the job. Those women invested less in schooling and career training than they might have had they seen the future.
But by the early 1970's, many more young women were forecasting their futures accurately. Among the reasons for the big shift: the burgeoning women's movement, inspired in large part by Betty Friedan's 1963 book "The Feminine Mystique," and, probably, dissatisfaction with their mothers' experience in returning to work in middle age with little job experience or up-to-date skills.
Landmark civil rights legislation -- including the equal pay act of 1963 and Title 7 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 -- and some well-known court cases against large companies over discrimination in hiring and promotions probably acted as a catalyst by lifting women's aspirations.
By all accounts, women now set their sights even higher. Younger women "have expectations we never had," said Darlene Meskell, 43, a managing associate at Coopers & Lybrand. "If we had these expectations, they were more bravado than realism."
Another indication of women's new determination is that they now join the work force with more impressive credentials. Since the mid-1980's, women have been earning more bachelor of arts degrees than men. They see college as preparation for a lifelong career. A business major is now their first choice. Thirty years ago it was teaching. Today women earn more than a third of all professional degrees, up from 6 percent in 1971.
New educational choices are leading women into careers with greater lifetime earnings potential. The super-segregated pattern of female and male occupations barely changed between 1900 and 1970, Ms. Goldin said. In 1960, some 80 percent of women with college degrees were in teaching, nursing, social services and civil service, the same as in decades past. In the 1980's the figure fell below 30 percent.
Now 30 percent of working women are professionals or managers, the same proportion as men, though just 3 percent of top executives in large corporations are women. The percentage of women in clerical and service jobs is falling. Half of accountants and one sixth of doctors are women.
 
Experience Counts
 Another major reason that women's pay closed in on men's is growing job experience. More women work full time, fewer drop out of the labor force and most are taking off less time to raise children than in earlier generations. Seven percent of working women drop out of the work force in any given year, down from 12 percent in the mid-1970's.
Contrary to a flurry of news reports that women are leaving the work force to raise children, "We're not seeing any dropping out on account of kids," said Howard Hayghe, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
For women in all kinds of work, staying on the job rather than dropping out has been a powerful pay booster. The accumulation of more experience on the job accounts for as much as a quarter of the narrowing of the gender gap in pay.
The gains of the 1980's are even more remarkable than the raw numbers suggest, the economists say. For one thing, as the law of supply and demand has shown, a group that's growing rapidly in the work force -- say, immigrants at the turn of the century -- generally suffers a decline in wages relative to the rest of the working population. Yet wages climbed, absolutely and relatively, even as the pool of working women swelled.
The narrowing of the pay gap under such circumstances "strongly confirms that when the demand for skilled labor increased and women acquired the skills, they were able to succeed in our flexible labor market," said Michael Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
Liberals have been quick to credit women's pay gains to the decline in men's wages. Some of the relative gains of women in the bottom half of the wage scale did indeed reflect the sharp drop in the wages of men with high school educations or less during the 1980's. But what these critics forget, Ms. O'Neill said, is that "at the upper end, where men did very well, women went through the roof." For example, college-educated men in the top 5 percent of wage earners saw their pay rise by 7 percent after inflation; but the pay for the corresponding group of women jumped 19 percent.
 
The Decade to Come
 The economists are optimistic that the gender gap in pay will keep shrinking. In addition to upbeat trends in education and skills, the pay history of women who embarked on their work lives at the start of the 1980's looks far more promising than that of a generation ago.
For example, the group of women who were 25 to 34 in 1955 earned 62 cents for every dollar earned by men in that age group, but just 55 cents per dollar by 1965. By contrast, those 25 to 34 years old in 1980 remained at 69 cents per dollar in 1990.
Nonetheless, all is not cheery for women, who now represent 40 percent of the work force and, if Bureau of Labor Statistics projections are right, will account for half of the work force by 2000. As with men, real wages have been growing far more slowly since 1973 than after World War II.
"Just because they escaped to an incredible degree in the 1980's," Ms. Blau said, "women can't escape the effects of lagging productivity growth forever."
 
 
 
THREE WHO DID THE RESEARCH
 In lots of ways, the three economists whose research has found big gains in the workplace for American women exemplify many of the trends about which they've been writing. They've broken into a formerly all-male profession, two of the three have juggled work and children, and all were inspired by the women's movement.
Claudia Goldin, 46 years old, is a graduate of the Bronx High School of Science who as a girl dreamed of saving the world by peering through a microscope. Her scholarship on slavery, the family and women has catapulted her to the top of the profession: "What better life could I have?" she asked. "I like a sweater with holes and a beat-up car." She lives with Lawrence Katz, also a Harvard labor economist.
Francine Blau, also 46 and also a New Yorker, teaches at the University of Illinois. She's just been elected vice president of the American Economics Association. Her husband, Lawrence Kahn, also a labor economist at Illinois, is a close collaborator, helping with splashy articles. "Having a colleague that you have great rapport with is always wonderful," Ms. Blau said. The couple has two children in junior high school.
June O'Neill, 58, teaches at Baruch College in New York City and is also married to a labor economist, Dave O'Neill. She remembers Richard Nixon as an Equal Rights Amendment proponent who sparked her interest in the gender gap. The President, it seems, was asked by the Ladies Home Journal to write an article on women and the economy. Ms. O'Neill, a young working mother, was the ghost writer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After decades of stagnation, the median pay for women as a percentage of that for men jumped sharply in the 1980's -- The Maurer Oickloe Company in New York City circa 1900; long-distance telephone operators in 1950; Leslie Crocker Snyder, now an acting justic on the New York State Supreme Court, at a 1982 conference for young porfessional women with children. (Sources: Claudia Goldin, Harvard University; June O'Neill and Solomon Polachek, Baruch College and SUNY Binghamton; Francine and Marianne Ferber, University of Illinois) (pg. 1); Claudia Goldin (Jane Reed/Harvard University); Francine Blau (University Illinois); June O'Neill (Jack Manning/The New York Times) (pg. 10)
 
Graphs: Graph tracks median woman's pay as percentage of median man's pay, 1890-1990 (Sources: Claudia Goldin, Harvard University; June O'Neill and Solomon Polachek, Baruch College and SUNY Binghamton; Francine and Marianne Ferber, University of Illinois); "Why the Gap Shrank During the 1980's..." tracks percentage of young women expecting to be in the labor force when they are 35, for 1932, 1956 and 1979, for blacks and whites; "Getting an Education," tracks degrees awarded to women as a percentage of the total awarded, for B.A.'s, M.A.'s, Ph.D.'s and prof., in 1971 and 1989; "In for the Long Haul," tracks thirtysomething women's years of work experience as a percentage of years since leaving school compared with men's experience, for 1977, 1982 and 1987; "Keeping Pace with Men," tracks cents earned by women for every dollar earned by men in the same age group, for born 1921-1930 (1965 and 1975) and born 1946-55 (1980 and 1990); "Getting Still More Education," tracks women's share of new professional degrees suggests that their share of jobs in the professions will keep rising, for denistry, medicine, pharmacy, M.B.A.'s, law and engineering (Sources: Claudia Goldin, Harvard University; June O'Neill and Solomon Polachek, Baruch College and SUNY Binghamton; Francine and Marianne Ferber, University of Illinois) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (59%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (59%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; WOMEN; LIFE STYLES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY WAGES & SALARIES (91%); WOMEN (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); MEN (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (79%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); BESTSELLERS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA RONALD REAGAN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



576 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
At Long Last, Are Consumers Ready to Buy?

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
The American economy may be on the verge of finally showing some decent growth. Consumers were not quite as hostile to buying this summer as it first appeared, and it looks as if low interest rates have made it possible for them to do so.
One little-noticed effect of the long decline in interest rates of the past couple of years has been the bailing out of consumers, not to mention corporations, that were in trouble with high rates but have now managed to refinance a lot of their debt. 
 The great debt orgy of the 1980's meant that by early 1990 consumers had to devote a record 17.5 percent of their income to making payments on debts, whether the mortgage or the car loan or all the credit cards. And then the recession hit.
That debt burden had barely changed by early 1991, when euphoria arrived following the victory over Iraq in the Persian Gulf War. Then, it will be recalled, the conventional wisdom was that the recession was ending, that recovery would be rapid and that the Democrats had no chance to win the Presidency in 1992.
One reason that wisdom proved so wrong is that consumers decided that no matter how good they felt, they simply couldn't afford to spend.
Now, the facts seem to indicate, they can afford to buy. Robert Barbera, the chief economist at Lehman Brothers, estimates that by the end of this year the consumer debt burden will be down to 14.75 percent or so, in large part because of all the mortgage refinancings. Traditionally, that number bottoms a little after the economy ignites, and while there is nothing to stop it from continuing to fall -- in early 1983, it dropped almost to 14 percent -- the current level probably allows for higher borrowing and spending.
In other words, Americans are able to buy. But with unemployment so high, and consumer confidence so low, are they willing? Mr. Barbera voices hope that if Bill Clinton wins, that fact itself could help to improve spirits. After all, new Presidents are almost always popular until they do something.
The evidence that consumers are already starting to buy is limited, but it is there. In saying that retail sales rose 0.3 percent in September, the Commerce Department also revised upward its estimates of sales in July and August. Moreover, the strength seems to be in durable goods, which is where one wants it to be. Auto sales are not setting the world on fire, but there are indications that consumer demand is rising, with the weakness in reported sales a reflection of the decision by auto makers to slash the discounts offered to car-rental companies.
To be sure, there have been optimistic indications before, and they have faded time and again. Bad trade figures, and the indication that European economies are slipping, should probably restrain optimism this time as well. But at least it now appears that a consumer-led recovery is possible, something that was not the case even a few months ago.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 37.83 to 3,174.41," tracks Dow Jones average, Oct. 9-16, 1992; "Consumers Can Afford to Buy," tracks consumer debt service as a percent of disposable income, 1985-1992 (4th quarter 1992, estimate); "Retail Sales Are Recovering," tracks monthly percent change in retail sales, May-Sept 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (56%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (77%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DESERT STORM (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); RETAIL SALES (65%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



577 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Forum;
There's Still a Way for Bush to Win

BYLINE: Robert L. Dilenschneider, author of "A Briefing for Leaders," is head of the Dilenschneider Group, a public relations firm.
By ROBERT L. DILENSCHNEIDER

 BODY:
WHEN it was a two-man race, voters judged the differences between President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton principally by ideology. They wanted to understand the approach each candidate would take to solve the nation's problems. But with Ross Perot's re-emergence -- one-liners and all -- the focus of the race has shifted. Voters now are far more likely to judge each candidate on the issue of leadership. And if leadership is the issue, Mr. Bush can still win.
To understand which candidate is the better leader, the public will be paying special attention to the way each candidate advances his agenda. But agendas -- like elections -- do not take place in a vacuum; each candidate must also define the context for his agenda. 
 Mr. Bush's mistake has been to advance his agenda defensively. That sends the wrong message. Instead, he must reassert the positive approach he took when he first energized the country by talking about the thousand points of light.
Mr. Bush should should use the turbulence in the world to set the context in which he will lead. He must make the electorate understand that against the backdrop of civil war in the former Yugoslavia, chaos in the former Soviet Union, the civil war in Somalia and the struggle for peace in the Middle East, the United States looks strong, healthy and stable. He must also get the message out that compared with those of our trading partners, the American economy -- with all its problems -- still looks good.
In his ads and in tomorrow's debate, Mr. Bush should demonstrate that the countries his opponents have cited as models for the United States have deep-seated problems of their own. Japan, which has been lauded for its economic growth, is mired in a deep recession, coupled with a real estate and stock market collapse. And America's productivity is higher than Japan's. Mr. Bush's opponents point to Germany, where government and business work hand in glove. The President should point out that Germany is also in the midst of a recession with sky-high interest rates and creeping inflation -- problems already encountered here and solved.
Mr. Bush should tell voters that Europe, the continent his opponents warn may surpass the United States in wealth and influence, has seen its currency system unwind, its unification plans put on hold and its economies slow down. For emphasis, he could point to Sweden, with its liberal social-welfare state, and tell Americans that last month, Sweden's short-term interest rates hit 500 percent.
In the final days of the campaign, Mr. Bush must carefully draw a distinction between a strong America with real but solvable problems -- his context -- and an America in chaos, his opponents' vision.
There are four additional tactics President Bush must embrace to present himself as a leader:
* Credentials. Mr. Bush must make the voters feel that neither Mr. Clinton nor Mr. Perot has the credentials to be President. To do that, Mr. Bush must reintroduce himself as the candidate with world-class leadership experience.
* Taxes. This is the breadbasket issue that will persuade most Americans. Rather than making pledges about not raising taxes, Mr. Bush must focus on the cost of Mr. Clinton's plans. He must also convey to the voters the terrible cost of Mr. Perot's deficit-reduction reforms. Unless Mr. Bush takes the offensive on taxes, many of those who voted Republican in 1988 will stray from the fold next month.
* The cold war. Mr. Bush must warn the voters that the cold war is not over. He must tell them that unless there is a new Marshall Plan, the old Communist Party and military establishment could regain power in the former Soviet republics and other Eastern European countries. Rather than taking credit for having won the cold war, Mr. Bush should talk about how to prevent Eastern Europe from returning to totalitarianism.
* Endorsements. Mr. Bush should turn his attention away from photo opportunities showing him eating tacos or kielbasa in favor of addressing at least one public policy group a week between now and the election.
No Doubt, Mr. Clinton will continue to project a vision emphasizing the generational differences between himself and Mr. Bush, invoking the Democrat's Roosevelt-Kennedy legacy and emphasizing his plans to improve competitiveness. But it will be a formidable challenge for him to raise his stature beyond the domestic context.
Tomorrow's debate has set the stage for Mr. Bush's breakthrough. It is now a long shot, but if Mr. Bush succeeds in developing a little fire tomorrow, he could well achieve the biggest comeback since Truman whipped Dewey.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOMALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOMALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; LEADERS AND LEADERSHIP ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RECESSION (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); CURRENCIES (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DILENSCHNEIDER, ROBERT L GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



578 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Mapping Offshore Migration of Jobs

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
When he set out to document the emigration of employment from the heartland and shores of the United States, it never occurred to Charles Kernaghan, executive director of a union-sponsored research group, that there wasn't someone out there collecting the information he needed. Surely, he figured, there were professors or think-tank wonks who decorated their offices with push-pin maps of plant closings and tables of jobs lost.
The data weren't available, Mr. Kernaghan says, at least not centrally and systematically. And what was there could not answer the fundamental question: Why do American companies go offshore? So, after spending several months doing more traditional forms of research in archives and libraries, Mr. Kernaghan and his colleagues, Barbara Briggs and Jack McKay, formed a bogus company. Posing as officers of an environmentally correct manufacturing company, they explored the shadowy networks of doing business as a foreigner in Central America and the Caribbean and made the improbable discovery that, advertently or inadvertently, Government programs run through the United States Agency for International Development may be encouraging American companies to go offshore. They estimate the cost to taxpayers at more than $800 million. 
 The project is in the shadows no longer. Earlier this year it piqued the interest of news show producers, and three Sundays ago, the CBS program "60 Minutes" broadcast a report of its own investigation.
A few days later, ABC's "Nightline" ran its version of the story over two nights. Even the unflappable Ted Koppel was unable to modulate exchanges between Senator Al Gore and Labor Secretary Lynn Martin that made the Vice Presidential debate a week later look like a Quaker meeting.
The Bush Administration vehemently denies its policies encourage companies to move south, arguing that programs stimulate development and increase imports from the United States.
The project began in Mr. Kernaghan's office at the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, one of the 21 unions that supports his work, in New York. For nearly a decade, Mr. Kernaghan's organization, the National Labor Committee in Support of Worker and Human Rights in Central America, had monitored political violence. As a delicate peace set in, he turned his attention to the problems of low-paid workers in the region's maquiladoras -- foreign-owned assembly plants.
The researchers, none of whom have business experience, decided their "company," New Age Textiles, would make re-usable canvas bags that could replace the plastic and paper bags supermarkets use. They made up samples, confabulated a company history, established a mailing address and fax and phone lines and had business cards and stationery printed up.
In December, they headed for a high-level trade conference in Miami to see if the idea would take flight. "We were nervous, to put it mildly," Mr. Kernaghan said. "Any questions could have blown us out of the water."
Like many people who have a long-distance relationship with business, Mr. Kernaghan and his colleagues assumed that having no experience, no business plan and no information about markets, distribution or other esoterica might create a problem.
Wrong. New Age Textile's eco-shopping bag was the hit of the conference. "It captivated them," Mr. Kernaghan said.
The conference mutated quickly from a test of verity into a whirlwind of opportunities, as members of the group carommed from meeting to warehouse tour to live radio call-in show. One night they dined with the Mayor of Rotterdam, who wanted them to ship the bags to Europe through his port.
The group spent much of its time visiting booths, pitching its bags to trade organizations from Jamaica, Honduras and El Salvador. At each booth, a representative touted his country's no-tax, low-wage, nonunionized environments and subsidies available for training workers and building factories.
With more confidence, Mr. Kernaghan took the New Age Textiles show to another conference in April -- this time with "60 Minutes" in tow. In July, again accompanied by "60 Minutes," he went to Central America and the Caribbean, where he found evidence of Government money being used on projects that could undermine onshore industries.
Mr. Kernaghan has been using A.I.D.'s own documents, piles and piles of them, to verify his figures. On "Nightline," Secretary Martin acknowledged that A.I.D. may need a review. But she argued that the agency's programs will lead to regional prosperity, which will benefit the United States.
Jack Sheinkman, A.C.T.W.U. president and one of Mr. Kernaghan's principal sponsors, recognizes that argument from debates on the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico. Since 1983, roughly when the A.I.D. programs began, he has watched the number of jobs in his industry drop 42 percent, to 1.02 million. At the same time, the wages of apparel workers in Central America has dropped to 30 cents an hour from 44 cents. The programs, he argues, are not helping anyone's standard of living and they appear to be impairing the ability of workers to organize.
Mr. Kernaghan now has the beginnings of the job-loss/plant-closing data base he assumed would be easy to find. He and his colleagues have already inspired Congress to restrict A.I.D.'s activities. And, as he told an A.I.D. official who came to call last week, he has any number of ideas for new research -- research that will almost certainly make somebody at A.I.D. uncomfortable again.

GRAPHIC: Photo:' Charles Kernaghan, executive director of the National Labor Committee at his office in New York. (Phillip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LABOR COMMITTEE; AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR COMMITTEE; AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; CARIBBEAN AREA UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (73%); FABRIC MILLS (73%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (73%); TEXTILE MFG (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (70%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (64%); TRADE SHOWS (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: KERNAGHAN, CHARLES; NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



579 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Muted Optimism for a Battered Japan

BYLINE: By James Sterngold

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
ANDREW BALLINGAL has some wonderful news. Over the next two years, predicts Mr. Ballingal, the strategist here for Barclays de Zoete Wedd Securities, the Japanese stock market's Nikkei index will rise at least 50 percent from its recent low. After that fantastic rally, the index would stand at more than 21,000 -- still down 12 percent or so from the beginning of this emphatically miserable year.
Much of the turmoil that hit currency and financial markets last month missed Japan, to the relief of most Japanese. But avoiding that mayhem has done nothing to heal this market's deep, long-term ills. 
 The economy is floundering, banks are swimming in a sea of bad loans, corporate profits are sliding and politics has been thrown into chaos by the resignation last week of Shin Kanemaru, the governing party's kingmaker, because of a money scandal. With its close Friday at 17,369.81, the Nikkei index is still down more than 50 percent from its peak three years ago.
It is a mark of the melancholy mood in Kabutocho, Tokyo's Wall Street, that an analyst who expects that it will take more than two years for the market to regain its level of nine months ago is counted an optimist.
"We are in a new bull market in Japan," said Mr. Ballingal, who bases his forecast on a view that things will get no worse. "There's a floor under this market now. We'll get a normal cycle from here."
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, made some surprisingly somber comments in Tokyo on Wednesday in which he could have been speaking for Japan as well as the United States.
Mr. Greenspan lamented that the problem is not that the American economy is declining, but that it is not really improving. Despite big reductions in official interest rates, the economy was not responding as it would be expected to. That prompted him to conclude that the United States was in a stubbornly sluggish phase in which many of the lessons learned over the past four decades simply do not apply.
The Japanese Government has slashed interest rates and announced a $90 billion public works program to pump cash into the system. It has also issued a steady stream of positive pronouncements.
"The Government says the economy is starting to rebound, but nobody believes it," said Yuichi Matsushita, a senior analyst at Nikko Securities. "At this point we're expecting a recovery in the second half of next year."
As for the stock market, Mr. Matsushita said recovery was still in the future, in part because investors are being caught by surprise at the signs of how badly the slowdown is affecting corporate Japan.
Nikko, in fact, has just made a sharp cut in its forecast for corporate profits in the current fiscal year, which ends March 30. It had been forecasting a 9.9 percent decline from the previous year, Mr. Matsushita said, but now expects a 19.7 percent drop. That means that, on aggregate, the profits of corporate Japan will have plummeted 35 percent over three years.
Some, however, say that even that figure for the year is too optimistic. "That's a joke," said Alan Bell, deputy head of research at Baring Securities here. "They'll be down at least 25 percent."
Mr. Bell's remarks underscored one of the underlying problems with the stock market -- expectations have still not fully adjusted to the depth of the economic malaise in Japan. As a result, when there are surprises, as there have been in the projections of corporate profits, they have always been negative surprises that knocked the market lower.
Most companies have been slow to recognize in their official forecasts how deeply the economic slowdown is cutting into profits, but some analysts have been more hard-nosed.
"The problem is that analysts' forecasts are really not afforded any credibility here," Mr. Bell said. "We can jump up and down and scream and make as much noise as we like, but the market doesn't take any notice. This is still an incredibly inefficient market."
In the long run, few doubt that the Japanese economy will prove itself fit, particularly its manufacturing sector. That is one big difference between Japan and the United States. Japanese industries have not lost their competitiveness, just their profitability, and few doubt that that adjustment is taking place.
"I'm not utterly despondent," said Mr. Bell. "The problems are just going to take a little time to work out."
Mr. Ballingal of Barclays said he based his modestly positive outlook on the assumption that the economy had bottomed, even if it had not yet begun to advance strongly. The deep problems with bad loans in the banking industry are severe, he said, but manageable. In addition, new issues of shares here have all but stopped, which means investors have not had to contend with additional supply, another positive factor.
"The point is that it's going to get better from here, but in a normal way," he commented. "It's not bad that we tread water for a while."
Mr. Matsushita said he, too, had seen some mildly better signs in the form of more optimism among institutional investors.
"The trust banks are a little more positive," he said. "They don't expect the market to collapse and so they're doing some buying. It's not an exceptional or tremendous amount of buying, but it adds some stability to the market."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (58%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TRENDS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); INTEREST RATES (62%); SCANDALS (53%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



580 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/October 11-16

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Voters Make Their Interest Clear to the Candidates 

When the major Presidential candidates met last Thursday to debate the issues and answer questions from a studio audience, it was clear what was on the country's mind. For the first 65 minutes of the debate, the questions from a group of undecided voters were on the economy or other domestic issues. And though not much new ground was broken, the nation was tuned in, big time. According to the A. C. Nielsen Company, 18 million households were watching. President Bush said he would not raise taxes and would create inner-city enterprise zones to get the economy going again. Gov. Bill Clinton said the deficit should be reduced slowly -- 50 percent in the next four years. To cut it any faster, as Ross Perot advocates, "you'd have to raise taxes too much and cut benefits too much to people who need them," Mr. Clinton said. That did not sway Mr. Perot. "I suggest now that our No. 1 preoccupation is red ink," he said.

The Scoop on Executive Pay
 
When the chief executives of some of America's largest companies joined President Bush on his visit to Japan earlier this year, they got more than they bargained for. While the Americans talked trade, the Japanese talked salaries and pointed out that while the top executives at America's 30 largest companies earn an average of $3.2 million a year, their Japanese counterparts earn only $525,000. That raised a ruckus among militant shareholders who have complained for years about how much top executives earn, and how difficult it is to find out the exact amount of their compensation. No more. Last week, the Securities and Exchange Commission approved new rules to require publicly traded companies to disclose in full, using simple language and charts, what their top executives earn. "These proposals make sure the information is out in the open and remove the restraints so shareholders can do something," said Richard C. Breeden, chairman of the commission.

Greenspan Is at a Loss
 
Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan's descriptions of the economy often resemble smoke rings. The ideas are well shaped, they float out effortlessly, but the substance is often impossible to grasp. He speaks that way so he won't disrupt the markets, it is said. But last week, while in Japan, Mr. Greenspan became a little less vague. The nation's sick economy was not responding to the Fed's low-interest-rate medicine, he said. Not only that, but Mr. Greenspan said he did not know why the old medicine had lost its punch. The methods the Fed had used to steer the economy since World War II were failing to guide it now. "No models can explain the types of patterns we're having," Mr. Greenspan said.

At Least Inflation Isn't . . .
 
Sales may be sluggish, but at least prices are holding firm. Prices at the producer level rose last month by 0.3 percent, the Labor Department said, slightly above the 0.1 percent increase for August. And consumers are getting an even better break. The Labor Department's Index of Consumer Prices rose by just 0.2 percent in September, less than August's 0.3 percent rise. Those numbers translate into an annual inflation rate of about 3 percent -- slightly less than in Germany and Japan. Still, inflation has taken its toll. A basket of consumer goods that sold for $100 in 1982 would cost $141.30 today.

For the nation's pensioners, the slowdown in inflation means the smallest increase -- just 3 percent -- in Social Security benefits in six years. The average monthly Social Security check will increase to $1,128 from $1,088.

The Politics of Arms Sales
 
Selling arms abroad is usually left to the generals and bureaucrats. But this is an election year and arms sales mean jobs -- and jobs mean votes, especially in the big industrial states. First, President Bush authorized the sale of F-15's to Saudi Arabia and F-16's and helicopters to Taiwan -- China's longtime rival. Last week, the White House went further. Mr. Bush personally intervened to get Kuwait to buy 236 advanced M1-A2 tanks and spare parts in a deal worth about $4 billion. The tanks are made by the General Dynamics Corporation in Michigan and Ohio.

Whither the Export Boom?

The "export boom," as economists called it, was responsible for 70 percent of the economy's growth -- such as it was -- over the last three years. The future of that boom is now in doubt. The Commerce Department said last week that exports fell 6 percent in August while imports surged, pushing the trade deficit to a five-year high of $9 billion for the month, a 24 percent increase over July.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
A Trade Surplus That Won't Die

Economists say each country has comparative advantages: one makes walkmen; the other grows wheat. That's why nations trade. But if that's true, why does Japan's trade surplus only grow? Last month it rose 25 percent to a record $12.1 billion, its Finance Ministry said. Japan's trade surplus is expected to hit $120 billion this year. Its surplus with the United States reached $4.84 billion last month, half of America's world trade deficit.

Lucas's Dark Days
 
Back when sports cars had side curtains and were mostly British, their notoriously unreliable electrical systems were made by Lucas Industries. Car enthusiasts called the company the Inventors of Darkness. But Lucas went on to other things -- like the electronics in the supersonic Concorde. Even so, the company has been taking its hits. Last week it announced it would lay off 4,000 workers and take a charge of $149.5 million. Lucas will also restructure itself by selling off businesses worth $170 million.

The Russian Riviera
 
Moscow isn't exactly the Mediterranean. Still, it has its attractions -- at least that's what the bureaucrats in the Kremlin hope. To lure tourists into the cold, the Russian Government made a deal with the Carlson Companies of Minneapolis to renovate and manage 13 hotels and develop retail travel agencies, car rental agencies and tour operations. The deal is worth about $1 billion, for Carlson.

 
 
COMPANIES

 
G.M.'s Sinking Fortunes
 
The General Motors Corporation has 15 new models out this year, but continues to lose market share in the United States. It now has 34.7 percent of the market, down from 35.3 percent last year and more than 50 percent a decade ago. Analysts expect G.M. to lose $4 billion to $5 billion this year on its North American operations. Among the analysts, there is even talk that those losses could force the nation's No. 1 auto maker into Chapter 11 of the Federal bankruptcy law. G.M.'s woes have put enormous pressure on the company's top management and touched off speculation that G.M.'s outside directors and management are feuding over what to do. To quell the speculation -- and rumors of another management shake-up -- Robert C. Stempel, G.M.'s chairman, issued a statement saying "there is no disagreement between management and outside G.M. directors."

Adding Insult to Injury at I.B.M.
 
It hasn't been the best of years for the International Business Machines Corporation. Not only was it forced to thin its ranks to become more competitive -- Big Blue will eliminate 40,000 jobs this year -- but it also had a $2.78 billion loss in the third quarter. In September in Europe, "People just stopped buying things," said Frank Metz, I.B.M.'s chief financial officer. The losses also resulted from early retirement programs for 20,000 workers. Big Blue's showing stunned Wall Street. Its stock price fell $5.125 on the news to $72.875, its lowest level in a decade. As recently as July, shares in the world's No. 1 computer maker traded at $100 or more. Big Blue closed the week at $70.625.
 
I.B.M. may be down on its luck, but Apple Computer Inc. is flying. It had earnings of $97.6 million in the fourth quarter on revenues of $1.77 billion. And Apple's Powerbook notebook computer is a smashing success. More than $1 billion worth were sold this year, making Powerbook the most successful new computer product since the PC.
 
Time Wants No Part of It
 
First it was the candidates complaining about the media. Now it's the media complaining about the candidates. Last week Time Inc. filed a suit in a Federal District Court against the Bush-Quayle campaign for infringing on its Time magazine copyright and trademark. TV ads for the Bush-Quayle ticket have been showing a Time magazine cover titled "Why Voters Don't Trust Clinton." Time argues that it has done critical articles on all three candidates "and we object to the implication that we are taking sides," said Henry Muller, the managing editor. In a letter to the campaign, Time said the use of the cover was "extremely damaging" to the magazine's reputation. The suit won't deter the Bush-Quayle campaign. "We are not going to pull the ad based on the Time magazine complaint," said Tony Mitchell, the campaign's deputy press secretary. Mr. Mitchell said use of the ad was "standard fare" in political campaigns.

P.& G.'s No-Coupon Policy
 
Last year, when the Procter & Gamble Company introduced its new pricing strategy of eliminating discounts on its consumer products in favor of consistently lower prices, analysts were dubious. After all, coupons do sell soap. But last week, at its shareholders meeting, Edwin L. Artzt, the company's chairman, told shareholders the strategy was paying off in sharply reduced costs. Procter & Gamble expects savings this year of $175 million from eliminating incentives. Without discounts, demand for products is more constant so the company's factories can operate more efficiently, Mr. Artzt said. In the 1990's, he told shareholders, "customers won't pay for a company's inefficiency." The company's stock gained 87.5 cents to $50.50 on the announcement and closed the week at $51.

Hertz's Price Break
 
The Hertz Corporation said last week it would stop charging a fee when cars are rented in one location and returned at another.

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Bush, Bill Clinton, Ross Perot (Associated Press); Richard C. Breeden; Alan Greenspan; A vintage MGB.
 
Graphs track percentage change in consumer prices from previous month, Sept 1991-Sept. 1992 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); merchandise trade deficit in, Aug. 1991-Aug. 1992 (Sourcs: Commerce Dept); Japan's monthly trade surplus, Oct, 1991-Sept. 1992 (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); 

COMPANY: A C NIELSEN CO (71%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); APPROVALS (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



581 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1983 words

HEADLINE: When Mastery of U.S. Media Does Not Come Trippingly

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Maybe it's something in the air, but American media companies have proved especially irksome to foreign buyers. Some newcomers, like Sony, Matsushita and Hachette, snapped up sizable media properties here in the late 1980's and ran into unforeseen snags.
Bertelsmann seemed like a surer bet. The $9 billion German media combine, No. 2 in the world after Time Warner, had all the appropriate stuff when it got into American media in a big way in the 1980's. 
 A stable and conservative outfit, its top managers back home seem firmly in place and its profits worldwide are solid. By contrast, Sony bought Columbia Pictures and Matsushita bought MCA, both at heavy premiums, just as the parent companies were hit by recession.
Bertelsmann A.G.'s American landing, though, has not been smooth. The executive turnover at its outposts here -- RCA Records, the Literary Guild and the book publishers Bantam, Doubleday and Dell -- has been striking compared with the stability in Germany. And though the company cites some bright spots, the money is not rolling in as it had hoped.
There's the economy, of course; nobody is doing too well these recessionary days. But perhaps media companies pose a special challenge to the outsider. Books and records, and those who create them, traffic in a distinct local idiom, presenting added problems for management when cultural barriers loom.
This is true even for a company like Bertelsmann, whose experience elsewhere would have seemed reasonable protection against making bad leadership and strategic decisions in this country. It now insists that it has learned the language and that smoother days lie ahead, but it still faces daunting challenges.
Just watch how the revolving door has turned for Bertelsmann, which entered the United States in 1977, buying 51 percent of Bantam, but greatly expanded its presence in 1986 when it bought Doubleday, Dell, RCA and other properties. RCA, the linchpin of its record group, has had three presidents since 1986, the Literary Guild two. Bertelsmann has replaced the head of its book companies as well as top executives at Bantam and Doubleday in the last four years.
RCA is reportedly just breaking even. And book profits are down slightly because of past problems at Bantam and Dell. The bright spot is the Literary Guild, which after trouble in the late 1980's is now profitable.
At that book club, Bertelsmann's first president tried to use selling tools that work in Germany before a new management team realized Americans have different buying habits. For example, the company printed large, costly catalogues to which Americans did not respond.
At the book companies, it's hard to tell what was more to blame, the strategy or the actors. Executives expanded just as recession hit. "The American market is really tough," conceded Bernhard von Minckwitz, president of Bertelsmann's international publishing division.
To be sure, some media executives say Bertelsmann has fixed many problems. New management has put the Literary Guild on the right track, and recent changes at the book division have been well received.
BUT for Bertelsmann, whose 1992 global profits were up 5.6 percent, to $407 million, the American results must remain disappointing. This is particularly so at RCA Records, since sales of English-language artists represent 60 percent of sales outside Germany.
The book companies have also been roiled by problems. In the latest fiscal year, sales were reportedly flat at about $600 million and profits fell slightly from $35 million, where they had been since 1988.
Bertelsmann's 6.1 percent profit margins on books in the United States are not bad these days, one book executive said. But they fall far short of the 13 percent margins at Putnam Berkeley, Matsushita's book unit.
Bantam, which last year accounted for roughly half the division's sales, is by far the largest. Doubleday and Dell account for the rest.
In the early 1980's, Bantam got off to a roaring start in hardcovers with hits like Lee Iacocca's autobiography. After the acquisition of Doubleday and Dell, Alberto Vitale, then a top Bantam executive, was made president of the Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group Inc. With Linda Grey as publisher, Bantam moved into trade publishing as well.
Meanwhile, at Doubleday, its new president, Nancy Evans, began an expansion program of her own, a strategy that led to losses in the late 1980's. "There were too many books published, " said Stephen Rubin, who took over Doubleday in 1990. "It is impossible to publish that many books well."
By 1989, Mr. Vitale had left to become head of Random House. There is still speculation that Bertelsmann's management had become concerned about Mr. Vitale's leadership, but Mr. von Minckwitz denies it.
Whether or not Bertelsmann was aware that expansion was ill-timed, no Bertelsmann executives -- here or in Germany -- showed any particular foresight about the direction the American market would take.
Mr. von Minckwitz did replace Nancy Evans with Stephen Rubin at Doubleday, which by the late 1980's was losing money. Mr. Rubin is said to be doing an excellent job, having slashed the list of releases and promoted certain writers.
But once Mr. Vitale left, Bertelsmann was neither quick nor savvy in replacing him. The book division floundered for a year until Mr. von Minckwitz hired Paul Neuthaler as president. A personal friend of Mr. von Minckwitz, Mr. Neuthaler is an American who had had no experience in trade book publishing and was shortly removed as president.
The newest president, Jack Hoeft, appointed in 1991, had been second to Mr. Vitale and is considered a good choice because of his experience.
Last summer Mr. Hoeft shifted management at Bantam, giving Ms. Grey her own imprint and replacing her with Irwyn Applebaum.
At Bantam, too, cuts are under way, pushing the company to focus on its core mass-market business.
PHYLLIS GRANN, Putnam Berkeley's chairman, is optimistic about the new direction at Bertelsmann, whose non-United States holdings include book clubs and magazines in Europe and record companies worldwide. "It is not essential that you get it right at the first go-round," she said, "but that you get it right fairly quickly. Bertelsmann seems to have done that."
For all the talk about global synergies, the barriers to building international companies are often mundane, starting with language.
Compared with other foreign owners of media companies, Bertelsmann gets relatively good marks. Both current and former Bertelsmann book executives say the German managers have made efforts to relate to the American executives. Mr. Rubin recalls a 1989 meeting with Mr. von Minckwitz, who is based in Munich but spends about a month each year in the United States, in which language differences led to confusion. "I told him that my hands were really tied," Mr. Rubin recalled. "And he looked down at my hands."
Since then, Mr. von Minckwitz has perfected his English. And though Bertelsmann's president, Mark Wossner, inevitably apologizes for his English, the Bertelsmann team has mastered the language far better than the management of some other foreign companies.
As to work styles, they are a factor cited by both German and American executives. Mr. Wossner recalled, for example, that at the company's home base of Guetersloh, executives tended to work until after 8 P.M. He did not understand why Americans left at 6 P.M. until it was explained that they often have an hour's commute.
Though such cultural differences initially presented problems at the book club, Bertelsmann soon brought in Gerhard Greiner as president and Markus Wilhelm as senior vice president.
Mr. Greiner had turned around various Bertelsmann book clubs in Europe, while Mr. Wilhelm had restructured the Canadian club. The pair succeeded in focusing the clubs on the profitable women's market and introducing special-interest clubs, from children's clubs to an incipient religious book club. One industry expert says the book clubs earned about $25 million last year on sales of about $200 million. "We had to learn," Mr. Wilhelm said. "We were book-club experts in South America and elsewhere, but we had to learn the U.S. market."
Bertelsmann also seems to understand America's "star" system. Clive Davis, president of Arista Records, owned by Bertelsmann, reportedly negotiated a new five-year contract valued at $25 million, a huge amount by American standards, but even larger by German standards.
Still, because the United States is such a crucial part of the world music and publishing market, a number of media executives say Bertelsmann was wise to invest here.
There is more of a debate in books, not only because profits are under pressure, but because the synergies are not as apparent.
Morton Janklow, a literary agent who represents Danielle Steele, a Dell author, among others, says Bertelsmann's worldwide clout is a benefit, allowing it to coordinate release dates and other issues. But Ed Victor, another top agent, sees no particular benefits in size. "Synergy happens when synergy happens," he said.
But the challenge remains of making Bertelsmann's United States operations a successful part of its worldwide business. And, in a recessionary economy, where there is little chance that the economics of media businesses will improve, the challenge is even greater.
 
 
 
DISAPPOINTMENTS AT RCA
 For Bertelsmann, the performance of RCA Records must be especially disappointing. Since the German company bought it in 1986, RCA has not gotten more than a small share of the American market and is now just breaking even. And during that time turnover at the top has been high.
RCA had some success in the year ending in June 1989, when the "Dirty Dancing" album and its sequel reportedly pushed it to about $225 million in sales. (Bertelsmann does not break out results by division.) In fiscal 1992, sales were said to be about $160 million. And Rudi Gassner, president of Bertelsmann International, conceded: "RCA has had a hard time. Our market share in the U.S. is terrible. We were slow starters when we took over. That's why we are behind in our timing."
RCA Records has had a series of presidents. But Bertelsmann has watched its share of the American market hover around 10 percent, though it inched up to 11 when "Dirty Dancing" was hot. Michael Dornemann, chairman of Bertelsmann's Worldwide Music Group, has been in the United States for five years, and began his career at IBM Germany, but his current choice of Joe Galante as president was considered an odd one.
Mr. Galante ran the company's successful Nashville division for 12 years. But after moving to New York nearly two years ago, to head RCA, the question in the minds of several music industry executives remains whether Mr. Galante is handicapped by not having a carefully cultivated network of contacts in New York.
With its market share still weak, the company recently negotiated a $30 million deal with the group ZZ Top to help its sagging roster of artists. It was a deal that met with widespread skepticism because of the price. One industry executive said the deal was made to give it visibility and to attract other top groups.
"BMG is committed to the business, but there is probably nobody more impatient than I am," Mr. Galante said. Mr. Dornemann acknowledged that the company, which has had successes in country music, "has had no success in contemporary." It still has the smallest market share of the six top record companies. He maintains that he is optimistic.
Mr. Dornemann says that one problem smaller companies face is that they are competing against increasingly large rivals, like Polygram and Sony Music. Nevertheless, Bertelsmann's own Arista label, smaller than RCA and run by the veteran Clive Davis, has done well.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The Shifting Management at Bertelsmann"/Jack Hoeft, current president of Bantam Doubleday Dell; Alberto Vitale, an executive at Bantam since 1977 and president of the book division after 1986. Left to head Random House in 1989; Linda Gray, president of Bantam: left this year to start her own imprint; Stephen Rubin, president of Doubleday since 1990; Nancy Evens, president of Doubleday until she resigned in 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (95%); SNE (NYSE) (95%); 6758 (TSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

COMPANY: BERTELSMANN AG SONY CORP (95%); BERTELSMANN AG (85%); LITERARY GUILD (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: BERTELSMANN AG LITERARY GUILD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LITERATURE (88%); PUBLISHING (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BOOK PUBLISHING (73%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE ALBERTO VITALE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



582 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 2480 words

HEADLINE: Glamour Boy

BYLINE: By JOAN KRON

 BODY:
"MY God, what's happening to the world!"
Nolan Miller is quite serious.
"The magic!" he adds. "The glamour! The star quality! It doesn't exist anymore!" 
 Until glamour has its moment again, those who need a fix can head for the Museum of Television and Radio at 25 West 52d Street, where Nolan Miller style will be in reruns until the end of March. "Nolan Miller: Costume Designing for Television," which opened Thursday, is the museum's first exhibition dealing with design for television.
On display are 12 extroverted gowns worn on television by Mr. Miller's glamour galaxy -- Joan Collins, Linda Evans, Elizabeth Taylor, Diahann Carroll, Barbara Stanwyck and Ann-Margret -- and 75 costume sketches signed "Nolan Miller" but mostly done by Donna Peterson, his ghost illustrator. (Mr. Miller has his priorities. He believes it's more important to be present at every fitting than to do every sketch himself.)
With a museum show under his Hermes alligator belt, the 57-year-old designer, who lives in Beverly Hills, Calif., will perhaps now be less of a target for those fashion elitists in New York and Paris who love to belittle him.
"Nolan suffers in the same way television does," the museum's president, Dr. Robert M. Batscha, said. "It is still to be recognized how wonderfully significant his work has been. Nolan Miller brought a largeness of concept and the glamour we associate with film to television."
The show is organized in three sections: "The Early Years: 1959-1975" (including "The Addams Family," "Green Acres" and "Honey West"); "The Glamour Begins: 1976-79" (including "Charlie's Angels" and "The Love Boat") and " 'Dynasty' and Beyond: 1980 to the Present" (including "Dynasty," "Hotel," "The Colbys," "Poker Alice" and "Hollywood Wives").
Or in the spirit of Nolan Miller, one can think of the career of the 6-foot-5 designer, usually clad in Savile Row pin stripes, as a mini-series, with the plot turning on a chance meeting with the producer Aaron Spelling.
"Nolan and Aaron were made for each other," Dr. Batscha said. "Aaron gave Nolan the opportunity, and Nolan gave Aaron's shows ambiance."
Their relationship started in the mid-1950's. Hollywood was in the doldrums. Films were being made abroad. Studio wardrobe departments were shutting down. And only the most farsighted film types could see the potential of television.
Aaron Spelling was a writer from Texas who, to make ends meet, played drug addicts on "Dragnet." Nolan Miller, the grandson of a Comanche and the son of a Louisiana oil-field worker (who didn't appreciate his son's insistence on eating by candlelight), was fresh out of Chouinard Design School in Los Angeles. His portfolio of sketches was always under his arm. He wanted to be another Adrian, the designer who dressed Joan Crawford and Norma Shearer at M-G-M in the 1930's and 40's.
To support himself between occasional commissions for custom gowns, Mr. Miller worked in a flower shop where Miss Stanwyck shopped. He admits, with embarrassment, that she befriended him after he inundated her with gifts of gardenias, her favorite flower.
One day, Mr. Spelling came to the shop to buy flowers for a date. Miss Stanwyck was there. "I had just written a 'Zane Grey Theater' script for her first TV appearance," Mr. Spelling recalled. "She introduced me to Nolan. She said, 'He's a terrific designer. You've got to use him.' "
The two men became friends, and Mr. Spelling vowed that when he became a producer, he would hire Mr. Miller to design costumes. It was the beginning of a 33-year relationship that would include some of the most memorable television shows of their time, if not all Mr. Miller's favorites.
"They say the 60's are back," he said in an interview this month. "I hope not. I hated doing 'Mod Squad' and 'Starsky and Hutch.' Nobody got to dress up."
"Charlie's Angels," which ran from 1976 to 1981, was a little better. Mr. Miller dressed its three policewomen in a "very modern, professional-of-the-time look" that had a great deal of influence, said Dr. Batscha, perhaps becoming the first to suggest that Mr. Miller is a feminist.
The most radical thing Mr. Miller remembers about the show is: "We threw away their bras. It was the first show that allowed nipples to show through."
He nonetheless tried to put the Angels into evening gowns and furs at the slightest provocation.
"When Aaron called in 1980 to tell me about his proposed new show 'Dynasty,' " Mr. Miller recalled, "he said, 'At last I have a show that will make you happy.' 'Dynasty' was a designer's dream."
During the show's nine seasons (1981-89), Mr. Miller designed and custom-made, often in 48 hours, some 3,000 outfits that trod a fine line between parody and elegance. "Dynasty" became an adjective -- a synonym for shoulder pads, peplums, veils, gloves and over-the-top glamour -- as in "I want, or don't want, a Dynasty look."
Joan Collins, who played the ruthless Alexis Colby, could handle props better than anyone since Miss Crawford, Mr. Miller said. "She can take her gloves off, smoke her cigarette, bite an hors d'oeuvre, stir her martini and eat the olive all at the same time. I always put Joan in gloves on 'Dynasty.' "
Once he took his wife to Bergdorf's to buy her some gauntlet gloves. He said, "The saleswoman told me, 'These are Alexis gloves.' "
Mr. Miller's clothes enabled Mr. Spelling to lure more and more film stars into television. "We dangled Nolan," Mr. Spelling said. "Instead of offering more money, we said Nolan will do your clothes."
Many a career was rehabilitated in the process. "Hollywood is terrible as it relates to age," Dr. Batscha said, "but through Nolan's work on 'Love Boat' and 'Hotel,' " older stars got a break. "Aaron was exceptional in creating the budget for this."
In the 80's, when Mr. Miller was designing costumes for "Hotel," "The Love Boat," "The Colbys," "Dynasty," "Fantasy Island," "Hart to Hart," "Matt Houston" and several movies of the week all at once, he was spending nearly $2 million a year on costumes, Mr. Miller said. For Elizabeth Taylor's guest spot on "Hotel," the designer spent more than double his $15,000 budget for guest stars to dress her alone. The average costume budget for an episode of "Dynasty" was about $25,000, plus $100,000 at the beginning of each season for staples, including a dozen suits, 50 ties and 6 dozen shirts for John Forsythe, its male star. At the time, such budgets were unheard of.
But only the stars were given made-to-order clothes. Other actors on other shows might wear recycled garments from "Dynasty." A few years ago, Mr. Spelling's company decided there was gold in its costume warehouse and began renting the "Dynasty" clothes.
"My costumes are in residuals now," Mr. Miller said. "Aaron made $800,000 in rentals in the first year. At last he's recouping his expenses."
At the height of "Dynasty's" popularity, when 40 million to 60 million people were watching each episode, Nolan Miller was receiving almost as much mail as the stars -- up to 1,000 letters a week. By then, he was the highest paid costume designer in Hollywood, making, he said, in excess of $10,000 a week -- more than half a million dollars a year. For a bonus one year, Mr. and Mrs. Spelling surprised him with a 1965 Rolls-Royce Silver Cloud, the car of his dreams. The car is still purring along, unlike the television shows that paid for it.
For the first time in his career, Mr. Miller is not under contract to Mr. Spelling. The teen-ager shows that Mr. Spelling is producing -- "Beverly Hills 90210" and "Melrose Place" -- are not Mr. Miller's flute of Dom Perignon. "Have you seen the clothes?" he said with a groan. "It's not the kind of thing you need to design and make to order. Probably if I did '90210,' they'd all look like Sandra Dee."
TODAY, hardly anyone gets to dress up on television, except at Academy Awards ceremonies and on mini-series, which are what Mr. Miller now designs for. He also makes clothes to order for Miss Taylor, Sophia Loren and other stars, who pay $3,000 for a suit and $5,000 to $10,000 for an evening gown.
Mr. Miller has two ready-to-wear lines carrying his name, which have had their ups and downs. He recently tested a line of jewelry he designed with Mr. Spelling's wife, Candy. It is being sold on QVC, a television shopping channel; $350,000 worth was sold in 40 minutes on July 7.
Mr. Miller operates out of two adjacent one-story ateliers on Robertson Boulevard in Beverly Hills. In one building, he makes some of his ready-to-wear. In the main building, which is worthy of a scene in "Scruples," he runs his couture operation. Many of his 40 employees -- cutters, fitters, sewers, shoppers -- have been with him for 15 to 25 years.
Scattered around the bustling workroom are naked dressmaker dummies of his clients. Cotton batting pinned on in strategic places proclaims to one and all who has gained weight recently.
The heart of the couture operation is the spacious pink-silk-walled dressing room where private clients have their fittings among Louis-something settees. Anyone who is not sure she is in the right place can scan the tabletops, a sidewalk of stars, with silver-framed photos each endorsed adoringly to "Nolan dear" or "Nolan darling."
An autographed picture of Miss Taylor occupies a position of honor on Mr. Miller's desk, next to one of his wife, Sandra. Sandra Miller, who is 43, is the daughter one of her husband's earliest private clients, Matilda Stream, a New Orleans socialite. Mr. Miller did Sandra's sweet-16-party dress, her debutante gowns and her first wedding dress. "That marriage lasted 10 minutes," he said. "Ten years later, I married her. It sounds like a mini-series."
The couple live among fine French furniture in a Spanish-style house in Beverly Hills. Mrs. Miller is resigned to sharing her husband with the world's most glamorous women.
"They're all people I adore," she said, adding without specifics: "I've only been jealous twice in 15 years. When Nolan comes home from work and says he's been in every bedroom in town and he's exhausted, I find it hard to work up any sympathy."
Mr. Spelling said: "All the stars became his friend. Nolan is a great confidant for women. The stories he could tell -- but he would never do a kiss-and-tell book."
Mr. Miller said, "I was lucky to cut my teeth on glamorous women."
Bette Davis "knew exactly where her hem should be," he said. "Dietrich told me she would only wear taupe-colored shoes -- to match her hosiery and give the leg a long line.
"Stanwyck taught me to stop worrying about the shoes. 'If they're looking at the shoes,' she said, 'everything else is a mistake.' She thought the top of the dress was the most important, especially in TV where it's all close-ups. She called them 'tabletop dresses.' She wanted her gown simple: in a beautiful fabric with a four-inch hem." Forced to wear let-down hand-me-downs when she was young, "Stanwyck believed a tiny hem said 'poor,' " he explained.
Ginger Rogers, he said, "knows just how full her skirt should be for dancing." Jane Wyman, one of his most loyal clients, "refuses to wear anything in navy trimmed with white because that's what she wore when she was a chorus girl," he continued, adding, "Every night she had to wash and iron those organdy collars and cuffs."
Of Lana Turner, Mr. Miller said: "Lana can put you through your paces. She was raised at M-G-M. There was no such thing as reality there. It was all image. Lana could fit for three hours at a time, fine-tuning every detail, over and over.
"And I put up with it. My aim was to please. There's nothing worse than an actress unhappy in a dress. It destroys her confidence. I knew it was necessary to make them feel secure."
Joan Crawford, who, he said, would play with her jewels on her bed, had "horrible taste."
"She put plastic covers on furniture," he said, "but she knew all about lighting and photography. She taught me how to pack a dress after something I sent her arrived all crumpled up in the box." (She told him to stuff the dress with enough tissue to simulate a body.)
For every outfit in her closet, Miss Crawford had an index card with a photograph and swatches attached and a list of all the right accessories. "With Joan, everything had to match," he explained. "On the back of the card she'd write where she wore it and who was there. Before she went anywhere, she'd ask for the guest list so she could decide what to wear. When she'd get there, she'd say. 'Oh Mr. So-and-so. How nice to see you. I haven't seen you since that night in New York.'
"I can't imagine what she would have done if she'd had a computer."
Elizabeth Taylor was a big catch for Mr. Miller. "I used to have a joke at my workroom," he said. "When I went out to lunch, I'd say, 'If Elizabeth Taylor calls, tell her I'll be back in an hour.' Then one day she called."
That was in the mid-80's. Mr. Miller went on to design clothes for her Passion perfume tour and ads. Valentino, a friend of longer standing, designed her most recent wedding dress, but Mr. Miller did the rest of the family. He said he did not take it personally.
Perhaps that's because he knows the service he provides is irreplaceable. For example, Miss Taylor called him just two weeks ago. She needed several outfits for a trip to New York for the Elton John AIDS concert last weekend.
No problem.
Sketches and swatches were taken back and forth on Tuesday by assistants. The clothes were cut and fitted on Wednesday on Miss Taylor's dummy. ("We make it and pray that it fits," the designer said.) On Thursday, Mr. Miller and a fitter went with the garments to Miss Taylor's house. The clothes were finished on Friday.
Can any French couturier compete with that?
No matter how many women he dresses in real life, Mr. Miller concedes he will always be remembered for the fantasy world of "Dynasty."
Richard Martin, the newly appointed director of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said, "The 'Dynasty' look so codified power that we won't see its likes again for a long time."
Or will we?
"In a depression," Mr. Spelling said, "people need fantasy, they don't need reality." He said he was developing "a glamour show in a beautiful setting -- a Nolan Miller show."
The Presidential election, the economy and the national mood certainly do not worry Mr. Miller. "Honey," he said, "the ladies I know aren't going to look down-home no matter who gets in the White House."
He tells of the forest-green sequined gown he made for the actress Susan Hayward, a close friend, to wear as a presenter at the 1974 Academy Awards. She was terminally ill and died less than a year later. She was buried in the gown, according to her wishes.
"When she got to heaven," he recalled her saying, "she wanted to look like a star."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nolan Miller, above, dressed Sophia Loren for the portrait he holds. Mr. Miller's designs for "Dynasty," "Hotel," "Charlie's Angels" and other shows are now on view at the Museum of Television and Radio. (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Nolan Miller in his Beverly Hills, Calif., studio. "They say the 60's are back," he says. "I hope not. I hated doing 'Mod Squad' and 'Starsky and Hutch.' " (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times); A long, sequined navy suit with muff, designed by Nolan Miller for Joan Collins on "Dynasty," is displayed at the Museum of Television and Radio. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Joan Collins, wearing a Nolan Miller design, with Jeroen Krabbe in "Dynasty: The Reunion" in 1991. (Chic Donchin/ABC)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; COSTUMES, THEATRICAL; APPAREL; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); FILM (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: KRON, JOAN; MILLER, NOLAN LINDA EVANS (56%); JOAN HENRIETTA COLLINS (56%); ELIZABETH TAYLOR (56%); BARBARA STANWYCK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



583 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 14; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT CARS;
To Keep or to Buy, There's the Rub

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
THE question occurs to a lot of us from time to time: Should I fix up the clunker or should I bite the bullet and lay down a bunch of cash for a new car?
Fortunately for the automobile manufacturers, the answer usually lies in our hearts instead of our heads, and we sigh and set about finding something new. But now the bean-counters at Runzheimer International have sorted out the actual cost of the decision, and their analysis might help some of us to make a wiser choice. 
 To approach the dilemma objectively, accountants at Runzheimer, a Wisconsin consulting firm, put aside the subjective considerations of image, safety, comfort and reliability and focused exclusively on cost.
They also made certain assumptions in order to create an example.
For a start, they decided that the car you own is a 1988 sedan with a six-cylinder engine and that the new one will be the same. The old car cost $12,597 and goes 21 miles on a gallon of gas. Mileage for the new one is the same, but the price has risen to $15,448.
The car you own also is paid for, but the new one will be financed with a four-year loan. By trading your '88 model, you take care of the down payment, and the loan carries an annual interest rate of 10 percent.
And, with all that, the answer is. . . .
According to Lee Czarapata, vice president of Runzheimer's transportation division, the new-car payments are the decisive factor.
"Even though the newer car has a much greater trade-in value after four years," he said, "and even though you save on repairs and maintenance, the monthly payments total more than $14,000 in principal and interest over four years. And that more than counterbalances the other factors."
The bottom line, he said, is a difference of $8,864 in savings by 1996 if you keep your 1988 model instead of buying new.
Still, the subjective factors do enter in, and Czarapata acknowledged that reliability can be particularly important. "A business person can't afford to blow a big deal or miss an appointment because the car broke down," he said.
"Also, image can be crucial. It would be embarrassing -- if not outright inconsiderate -- to pick up an important client when you are wearing your $400 suit but driving an old beater. And safety, which is important to everyone, is a particularly sensitive issue for business fleets because of the combined effects of repair work, replacement vehicles, lost time on the job and workers compensation."
More information on costs can be had by calling Runzheimer at (414) 767-2200 or by writing to the company's transportation division in Runzheimer Park, Rochester, Wis. 53167. But information on safety also is available in a new booklet published by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, an insurance-industry clearinghouse.
The booklet, "Shopping for a Safer Car," notes that some 200 different 1993 models will have driver-side air bags, nearly all of them as standard equipment. Many also will offer bags for front passengers, and about 150 different models will have antilock brakes in the coming year.
Brian O'Neill, the institute's president, said the publication is designed to help consumers make informed choices by listing '93 models and their safety equipment. "Safety is now near the top of the list for car buyers, right up there with quality," he said.
According to the booklet, purchasing decisions in which safety is a consideration should take into account the essential fact that bigger is safer. "Some people claim small cars are more maneuverable than large cars and, therefore, less likely to be involved in crashes," the authors say. "But this simply isn't true."
The best evidence for that, they add, comes from insurance claims, which are far higher for small cars than for larger ones.
"The problem with small cars isn't confined to crashes with larger vehicles," the booklet says. "In both single and multiple crashes, death rates in small cars are higher than in large cars. In single-vehicle rollovers, in fact, the death rate in small cars is more than five times the rate in large cars."
The authors call air bags the single most important safety feature in today's cars, but they devote space to seat belts, too, and they properly note that automatic seat belts are undesirable and a poor substitute for the bags.
"Shopping for a Safer Car" is available free from the institute. Write to Car List, Box 1420, Arlington, Va. 22210.
For those who are really serious about buying a safe car, the institute offers yet another pamphlet, this one with the catchy title "Injury and Collision Loss Experience by Make and Model."
This one lists vehicle-by-vehicle performance based on crashes, and it notes that the most popular cars on the road vary greatly in their likelihood of insurance claims for injuries and damage.
The five 1989-91 cars with substantially better than average performance in that regard are the Buick Park Avenue, Plymouth Voyager, Dodge Caravan, Ford Crown Victoria and Buick Century. Those with the worst record are the Hyundai Scoupe, Geo Storm, Dodge Daytona, Mitsubishi Eclipse and Chevrolet Camaro.
The car with the best injury claims experience is the Lexus LS400, but it also has worse than average damage results. Other cars that are low on the injury-claims scale are the Buick Park Avenue, Volvo station wagon, Ford Aerostar van and the BMW 7-series cars.
The BMW's, however, have the most expensive damage claims among all 170 cars in the report.
The cars with the worst injury claims, according to institute, are the Hyundai Scoupe, Hyundai Excel sedans and the two-door Geo Metro.
"There are general patterns by size and body style in insurance loss experience," O'Neill said. "For example, large cars generally have better results than small cars, and four-door models tend to do better than two-door models. But even within the same group, large differences characterize the results."
Among small four-door sedans, for instance, the one with the best injury claims result is the Volkswagen Golf. The worst car in the group, the Hyundai Excel, has a result that is nearly twice as high as the Golf's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUNZHEIMER INTERNATIONAL LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (60%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



584 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
A Budding Scandal, in Brief: A Primer on the 'B.N.L. Affair'

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
It is called "Iraqgate" and "the B.N.L. affair," and it could have the makings of a major scandal. But what is it?
It began with charges by Congressional Democrats that the Bush Administration was wrong to try to curry favor with President Saddam Hussein before he invaded Kuwait. If the United States had been tougher earlier, some said, the United States and its allies might never have had to go to war. 
 Then it evolved into a myriad of charges and suspicions that the policy was not only flawed but criminal. There were allegations, still not proven, that fraudulent loans from an Atlanta bank to Iraq, backed by an obscure Federal credit guarantee program, ended up paying for some of Iraq's weapons. A Commerce Department list of goods approved for sale to Iraq was altered before Congressional review, disguising the military utility of American high-technology items for Iraq's arms buildup. Democratic lawmakers charged that senior Administration officials misled them about the policy afterward.
More recently, there were accusations that the Administration was less than thorough in its investigation of a huge fraud scheme at the Atlanta bank.
The result: charges that the Bush Administration was engaged in one or more coverups, and the appointment by Attorney General William Barr on Friday of a special investigator to examine the charges.
The pieces do not fit together yet. But an outline is beginning to emerge of what investigators know and what they are trying to find out. Here is a summary:
What was the old United States policy toward Iraq?
In October 1989, President Bush signed a formal directive to use economic and political incentives to try to moderate the actions of President Hussein, described in one 1988 State Department document as a dictator "who believes that power comes from the barrel of a gun." Mr. Bush has said the policy was an attempt to bring Mr. Hussein into "the family of nations."
In the nine months after the Bush Administration settled on its policy -- as Iraq grew steadily more belligerent -- the United States sold Baghdad high-technology equipment that could be used in its military programs, and provided intelligence on Iran's political and military situation. It fought Congress's attempts to impose economic sanctions and to brand Iraq a supporter of terrorism. And it played down the importance of Iraq's human rights record.
Most controversial was the White House decision in November 1989 to provide $500 million in loan guarantees and push for $500 million more under an obscure program run by the Agriculture Department's Commodity Credit Corporation to promote sales of American farm products abroad. The United States did not lend money to Iraq under the program. Rather, it told banks it would make good on their loans if Iraq didn't repay.
How did the Banca Nazionale del Lavoro become involved in dealings with Iraq?
The Rome-based bank, now widely referred to as B.N.L., is one of Italy's largest commercial banks. In the early 1980's, its Atlanta branch, seeking new business opportunities, began lending money to Iraq under the Agriculture Department program. The relationship between the Iraqis and the branch manager, Christopher P. Drogoul, grew, and an elaborate illegal loan scheme began. Prosecutors say Mr. Drogoul concocted the scheme, in which he would use his bank's high credit rating to borrow from other banks, then turn around and lend to Iraq at a slightly higher interest rate. These transactions were recorded in a separate set of books. His negotiations were conducted through phony telexes and faxes. Inside the bank branch, the transactions were known as "Perugina," after the Italian candy maker.
Some of the loans and credits directly funded Iraq's purchase of weapons and weapons technology, according to the indictment. Federal prosecutors in Atlanta and Administration officials scattered throughout the Federal bureaucracy raised suspicions, but never proved, that loan money backed by the United States Government was diverted into weapons purchases. Other critics say that this misses the point because money is fungible and the loans would at least have freed up other Iraqi funds for arms purchases.
Whether the bank's Rome headquarters knew of the scheme is one of the main questions in the current inquiries, because that would bring the scandal to high levels of the Government of a major American ally.
What made these transactions criminal?
On Aug. 4, 1989, Federal agents, acting on a tip from two bank employees, raided the bank's Atlanta branch. More than 18 months later, the Justice Department indicted Mr. Drogoul and other bank employees, a Turkish national, four Iraqi officials and two Iraqi banks, alleging a five-year scheme to extend more than $5 billion in loans and credits to Iraq and other countries and companies. The charge was based on the thesis that the money was lent without the knowledge and approval of the Rome bank, which was therefore defrauded.
In addition, Mr. Drogoul was charged with lying to bank officials and Federal and state bank authorities, a scheme to illegally sell Cuban sugar, and tax evasion.
In return, the indictment charged, Mr. Drogoul was paid $2.5 million in bribes from exporters whose goods were paid for by the loans.
Lending money to Iraq was not in itself a crime. But the indictment asserted that Mr. Drogoul, who pleaded guilty to masterminding the scheme, had defrauded his superiors and lied about it. Throughout the investigation, however, the Atlanta prosecutors and the Justice Department clashed repeatedly on whether Rome was involved.
Is there proof of a coverup?
The most sweeping charge, made by some Democrats in Congress -- that the Administration allowed the bank to make the loans and then covered up that decision -- has not been proven. But in some instances the Administration has been less than candid in explainingits policy decisions and its handling of the case.
On the first day of Mr. Drogoul's sentencing hearing last month, for example, Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, a Texas Democrat, disclosed the existence of C.I.A. documents indicating that Rome had some knowledge of the scheme. A C.I.A. letter was sent to prosecutors three days later omitting the fact that the agency had received classified reports about Rome's involvement. Since then, the C.I.A. and the Justice Department have been locked in a bitter feud over the handling of the case. C.I.A. lawyers accused the Justice Department of urging them to provide prosecutors and the judge in the bank case with incomplete information via the letter. And the the C.I.A. has admitted failing to turn over all its secret documents to the Justice Department.
In addition, lawyers believe they were misled in two other major instances. One involves alterations made on a Commerce Department list of high-technology items approved for sale to Iraq, before the list was sent to Congress. The second involves a charge by Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who heads the Senate Agriculture Committee, that Agriculture Secretary Clayton K. Yeutter misled him when he argued that the decision to extend the loan guarantees had nothing to do with foreign policy considerations.
In all of this, what are the stakes for the Bush Administration?
On the policy level, the release of thousands of pages of classified and recently declassified documents has been deeply embarrassing. It has exposed the workings of secret policy making: the interagency battles, the candid cables, the impulse to fulfill the President's wishes.
On another level, however, the most insistent conspiracy theorists, including Mr. Drogoul's defense attorney, suggest that the United States might have known about the irregular lending from the tiny Atlanta bank and promoted it, perhaps in collusion with Italy, to help Mr. Hussein. Therefore, this line of thought goes, the Administration had no other choice but to cover its tracks afterward. One way of doing that would be to absolve the Rome bank of any wrongdoing, placing the entire blame on Mr. Drogoul.
Has anyone accused Mr. Bush of direct involvement in a coverup?
Both Congressman Gonzalez and Mr. Drogoul's defense lawyer, Bobby Lee Cook, have suggested that Mr. Bush was involved in a coverup. Although there are some examples of highly unusual behavior by the Administration -- White House and State Department phone calls to the Atlanta prosecutors, for example -- there is no proof that Mr. Bush engaged in a coverup.
On the other hand, Mr. Bush has made several public remarks that have been contradicted by internal documents. For example, he denied that the United States enhanced Iraq's nuclear, chemical, biological and ballistic missile capability, but one document showed that one week before Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d was urgently warning that Iraq was secretly using American technology in its vast arms buildup.
Does the bank fraud case affect the American taxpayer?
When Iraq invaded Kuwait, it defaulted on all of its loans to the Atlanta bank. Some $1.9 billion of those were guaranteed by the agricultural credit program and the Government has already paid back about $1.5 billion in loans that have come due. The Administration says taxpayers will eventually be reimbursed through Iraqi assets now frozen in foreign banks or by forcing Mr. Hussein to give up some profits from oil sales.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christopher P. Drogoul (Associated Press); Senator David L. Boren (Associated Press); Judge Frederick B. Lacey (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); Representative Henry Gonzalez (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO INVERSIONES ARGENTINAS SA (50%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO SPA (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); SALES PROMOTIONS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); SALES & SELLING (68%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (62%); COMMODITIES TRADING (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



585 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
A Defunct Car, Like Its Homeland, Was the Sum of Its Parts

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: KRAGUJEVAC, Yugoslavia

 BODY:
Remember the Yugo, that cheap car from Yugoslavia? It was made in this sprawling Serbian industrial town, which proudly welcomes visitors to "the home of the Yugo." But the sad fact is that the Yugo no longer has a home.
Its plight may cause only mild surprise in the United States, where the car was offered for a sticker price of $3,999, but developed a reputation for shoddy construction and was withdrawn from the market this year after a splashy introduction in 1986 and sales of about 150,000 cars. But here, the Yugo really stood for something, like technological prowess, industrial accomplishment and social progress. The Yugo was viewed here as the Yugoslav Model T, putting ordinary families on the road and accounting for more than two-thirds of the domestic car market. 
 Now, however, the Yugo factory has been left moribund by a combination of war, the breakup of the country and United Nations economic sanctions.
"It depresses me to even think of all this nonsense," said Kamenko Sretenovic, the deputy general manager of Zastava, the company that makes Yugos.
With its paralyzed production line, on which incomplete auto bodies dangle sadly like gondolas on a ski-lift during the off-season, the plant presents a compelling image of the havoc wreaked by the splintering of the old Yugoslav federation.
The Yugo, if it could be made, would now be a hybrid vehicle from several different countries.
Before the Balkan war, most of the Yugo's electrical parts came to this town 60 miles south of Belgrade from a factory in Nova Gorica, which is now in independent Slovenia. Most of the car's interior fittings were made in Split, now in independent Croatia.
The company in Split was called Jugoplastika, but has since changed its name to Audgelovi-Slim to make it quite clear that it no longer has anything to do with Yugoslavia.
The brakes, too, were a Croatian product, made in Varazdin. Some of the electrical parts for the engine came from Banja Luka, which is now in a Serb-held section of war-ravaged Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for the seat-belts, locks and mirrors, they came from Ohrid in Macedonia, which has also declared independence but unlike the others has not yet been recognized by many nations.
The rest of the car's parts were made in what is left of Yugoslavia -- Serbia and Montenegro.
"A car is a complex product requiring many different kinds of technology," said Mr. Sretenovic. "And the Yugo was the paramount representation of the economic and technological power of Yugoslavia."
He explained that the breakup of the country, which began last year, inevitably crippled the Yugo, because parts could not be obtained from newborn countries with which Serbia was at war. But scrambling to make substitute components for those no longer available and to import others from Poland, Italy and elsewhere, the plant managed to limp along in the first months of this year with production running at less than half its normal level of 220,000 autos a year.
Then, on May 30, United Nations sanctions were imposed, severing Yugoslavia from world trade.
This was the final blow for Zastava, in which the Italian auto company Fiat has a minority stake, and for the Yugo. Of 16,000 workers, 13,000 were immediately laid off. These idle workers have been receiving the equivalent of about $45 dollars a month from Zastava.
Those still working have been cleaning machinery. They have also managed in the last four months to complete 3,000 cars -- equivalent to two and a half days' production in normal cirumstances.
The vast plant has been transformed into what one worker, Jelenko Poledica, called "a terrible desert."
Another worker, Miroljub Provokovic, who is 42 years old and is earning about $100 a month, worried about how he will support his children, ages 7 and 6. He declared that "the sanctions are totally unjust because they are based on very superficial judgments from the West.
"Serbia is not the aggressor," he added. "Serbs in Bosnia and in Croatia are defending their fireplaces."
But the views and anger of the workers reflect widespread feelings in Serbia, where sanctions appear so far to have produced more anger against the outside world than against the hard-line government of the Serbian President, Slobodan Milosevic. The West had hoped that Mr. Milosevic would bear the brunt of popular discontent.
The workers' fears for their jobs seem justified. Mr. Sretenovic said the plant, which had already lost about $300 million so far this year, would close fully by the end of the year if Serbia's current isolation persisted. Before that, Zastava would run out of funds to pay workers who have been laid off.
Even if sanctions are lifted soon, the Yugo plant -- like nearly all of Serbian industry -- will face enormous problems. The company's relations with foreign banks and suppliers have been broken. An export market that accounted for about 25 percent of production is rapidly being lost. A total of 100,000 jobs in the former Yugoslavia linked to the auto business are threatened. And it will take months -- probably at least six -- to acquire the parts needed to resume full production.
"We are on the brink of complete collapse," Mr. Sretenovic said. "This place is rapidly turning into a museum."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yugo automobiles immobilized on a production line in Kragujevac, Yugoslavia. (Roger Cohen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SLOVENIA (91%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SLOVENIA (91%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE WAR & CONFLICT (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HYBRID VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); SKIING FACILITIES (66%); SKIING (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (63%); POLITICS (60%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



586 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Strike Zone;
Debating 'Character' to the Bitter End

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
It has been said that a man never discloses his own character so clearly as when he describes another's.
Most Americans are so frantic about the economy that they are turning a deaf ear to Republican attacks on Bill Clinton's character. But the President and the Governor are still locked in a tendentious tango on the issue of Presidential character -- one that is highly revealing about their respective strengths and weaknesses as leaders. 
 Mr. Clinton knows that he is vulnerable on the matter of integrity. He has admitted to a history of problems in his marriage and to breaking a written commitment in order to avoid the Vietnam war-era draft. When stung by the past, he has evaded, eluded and edited.
But, buoyed by a public more in the mood for statistics than titillation, he has shifted the debate on Presidential character by slicing the concept in half. His message is this: Never mind about what has happened in my private life. That's not relevant. Judge my character by the way I handled my job in Arkansas.
With the cupboard bare on domestic issues, Mr. Bush is forced to take the opposite tack. His message is this: Never mind about the promises I broke in my first term. Don't be angry that I got so distracted by my love of foreign affairs that I often seemed like an absentee landlord. Judge my character and my opponent's by my personal code of conduct.
Mr. Clinton tries to camouflage criticism about his evasiveness by blanketing the public with plans and programs. Mr. Bush tries to camouflage his governing failures by throwing hand grenades about trust.
There is something poignant about watching Mr. Bush as he strains to make character the campaign's central issue.
In the past, George Bush seemed to view character as something baked into you by your parents and teachers. It was not something that you boasted about and served up on a fancy dish for company.
In the 1988 race, he found it hard to address the character issue, even though it was clear from conversations with him that what he felt had prepared him to be President had been instilled in Greenwich, Andover and Yale: the love of country, the desire to serve, the sense of loyalty and team-play.
He could bash Michael Dukakis on trumped-up patriotism issues like the Pledge of Allegiance with relish. But when his campaign advisers insisted he talk about his own war record, he felt guilty -- even more so when his mother told him it was unseemly. He had to force himself to talk to reporters about the 1953 death of his 3-year-old daughter, Robin, of leukemia, a heartbreaking event that his advisers felt could be portrayed as character-shaping.
He often waved off character and personality questions with a good-natured line about not wanting to "get on the couch" or not liking "psychoanalysis" stories or "Gail Sheehy stuff," referring to the Vanity Fair writer who combined her campaign profiles into a book called "Character."
But now he has no choice. At the debate in Richmond on Thursday night, Mr. Bush looked uncomfortable and slightly depressed as he tried to press his case before the audience and his rivals yanked him back into a policy discussion.
He began by defending himself against Mr. Clinton's barb that his father, a Senator, would not have approved of his innuendos about Mr. Clinton's trip to Moscow as a young man: "He raised the question of my father and said, 'Well, your father, Prescott Bush, was against McCarthy. You should be ashamed of yourself. McCarthyism.' I remember something my dad told me. I was 18 years old, going to Penn Station to go into the Navy, and he said, 'Write your mother' -- which I faithfully did -- he said, 'Serve your country' -- my father was an honor, duty and country man -- and he said, 'Tell the truth.' And I've tried to do that in public life, all through it. And that says something about character."
Mr. Clinton, by contrast, argued that character is substance: "I'm not interested in his character. I want to change the character of the Presidency. And I'm interested in what we can trust him to do and what you can trust me to do and what you can trust Mr. Perot to do for the next four years."
Further evidence of the President's desperation came on Friday, when he began a speech on a new plan on car insurance and ended up abandoning it to launch an emotional attack on Mr. Clinton's honesty.
"Character does matter," Mr. Bush insisted. "A pattern of deception is not right for the Oval Office." And he added: "You cannot separate the character of the President from the character of the Presidency. They go together. You cannot be one kind of man and another kind of President. It's that simple."
The President was so rattled by a group of young pro-Clinton hecklers that he scorned them as "draft-dodgers," a displacement insult meant for the Democratic candidate.
The polls reflect a sense that Mr. Bush's style of leadership, that of a cautious caretaker, is out of date and out of sync. Mr. Bush still seems disbelieving that the country could prefer a man of Mr. Clinton's character and resume. He may be having trouble understanding what has happened to the country he fought for. Mr. Bush came of age in an era of absolutes. Mr. Clinton came of age in an era of moral ambiguity, part of a generation that had more complicated experiences with sex, drugs, war and abortion.
In the past, the Republicans had great success raising the specter of a nasty and volatile Evil Empire to argue that the nation needed a strong, stable figure in the White House. The end of the cold war makes it more difficult to scare Americans into believing in the importance of a muscular "stand-up" character. They are yearning for a nurturing character -- and Mr. Clinton has played to this mood.
Dan Quayle sounded more vague than ominous when he said during the Vice Presidential debate in Atlanta: "At some time during these next four years there is going to be a crisis -- there will be an international crisis. I can't tell you where it's going to be, I can't even tell you the circumstances, but it will happen. We need a President who has been tested, who has the integrity and qualifications to handle the crisis."
Mr. Bush and Mr. Quayle are right that character matters. But Republicans are not getting any traction on the character issue because they are defining it in an outdated way and because the attacks are hollow, only serving to remind voters that Mr. Bush is having trouble running on his record.
Within President Bush's argument about character is buried his fatal flaw: He has always seemed to think he should be President because he had the right breeding, the right resume and the right character to serve as a careful steward of the country, not because he had ideas he wanted to implement.
And what the public is saying is that, in a year of economic crisis, concern and performance may be the most important tests of character.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); ETHICS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); DOWD, MAUREEN BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



587 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
Many Companies Try to Simplify Pricing

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
To attract harried but value-conscious consumers, more American companies are adopting a marketing strategy that drops the quick sale in favor of low prices year round. To the buyer, it seems to signal an end to haggling and shopping about for the best price; to the seller it may mean steady customers.
So far, and despite the skepticism of some critics, the approach is building a following among companies ranging from computer makers to car dealerships to hotels. In the process, they are creating what many marketing experts and economists say is a noteworthy shift in how goods and services are bought and sold. 
 Simplified pricing aims to eliminate the system of markdowns buyers have confronted for years. With it, retailers seek to re-establish credibility in the wake of a former practice of sales versus regular prices.
 
Converts Growing
 Some experts, however, voice doubts about the staying power of the strategy. They say steady pricing will inevitably seem old hat, and retailers may only promise low pricing without delivering it.
Competitors who slash prices may also cause businesses with everyday low prices to rethink their approach. "It's part of the American psychology to want to get a really good deal," said James Posner, a retailing consultant in Manhattan.
Whatever the logic, the list of converts is growing. Dozens of car dealers have adopted the no-haggle sticker prices popularized by the fledgling Saturn division of General Motors. The Ford Motor Company has expanded a promotion advertising a single price for several different Ford Escort and Mercury Tracer models.
Many computer manufacturers such as NCR and Zenith Data Systems are dropping list prices in favor of prices closer to what consumers are likely to pay at computer stores. In April the Sheraton hotel chain lowered its posted rates -- which few people actually paid -- and halted widespread discounting. The gambit has resulted in a 14 percent year-over-year increase in room reservations and a slight gain in the average rate that customers actually paid.
American Airlines recently failed in its attempt to make the going simpler and cheaper. Its chairman Robert L. Crandall announced in April the airline would eliminate the confusing discounts so familiar to airfares. But a few weeks ago, Mr. Crandall signaled he was scaling back, citing a lack of cooperation on the part of the other airlines.
The popularity of this pricing pitch is driven in part by the slothful economy. Businesses under pressure to jumpstart revenues have found inspiration in the track record of the country's leading retailer, Wal-Mart. Except for a few sale items every month, the chain promises everyday low prices on major brands. "We've been taught some important lessons by the likes of Wal-Mart, which has gained the trust of the American consumer," said Frank E. Blod, a partner at the New England Consulting Group in Westport, Conn.
 
Some Pay More
 While some consumers revel in the negotiating game, many are willing to pay a premium for the peace of mind of knowing that others are not getting a better deal. Magazines such as Consumer Reports have noted that car shoppers may pay less dealer profit if, instead of buying a Saturn, they negotiate at competing dealerships that sell other brands. But that mattered little to Carol Christian, a training consultant in Westchester County, N.Y., who purchased a Saturn last year partly because of its no-haggle policy. With previous car-shopping excursions, the negotiating process "made me feel bad, defective," she said.
Finally, consumers seem to have less patience for time-honored traditions such as watching for supermarket specials and organizing sheaves of coupons. So-called warehouse clubs and supermarket chains like Winn-Dixie and Albertson's have expanded their low-pricing strategy.
The "high-low" strategy of the supermarket evolved in the early 1970's in the wake of rising inflation. Shortly after price controls were set by the Nixon Administration, commodity prices started dropping. But instead of lowering their newly raised prices, food manufacturers started offering deals to retailers on certain products. Those discounts were passed on as sales to consumers, who had more time for comparison shopping. "High-low pricing is really based on an older, although deep-rooted, paradigm of the American consumer," said Gary M. Giblen, a Paine Webber retailing analyst.
Although many retailers operate successfully with high-low pricing, one daunting force pushing everyday pricing is the consumer products giant Procter & Gamble Company. Since the start of the year, the company has lowered wholesale prices on about half its products and eliminated many discounts it had offered grocers. Procter & Gamble said it changed because grocers were abusing the deals and stockpiling products on special, creating costly, uneven production cycles.
With Procter & Gamble pushing at one end, and time-starved consumers pulling at the other, many people believe that other supermarkets and retailers are likely to adopt more predictable pricing in the future. "It will gradually become more prevalent in the 90's," Mr. Giblen said, but added, "Who knows what will happen later in the decade?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (82%); F (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (82%); SATURN CORP (66%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS SA (54%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS ITALIA SPA (54%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS GMBH (54%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS EUROPE (54%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS ESPANA SA (54%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS IRELAND LTD (54%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PRICES; DISCOUNT SELLING; CORPORATIONS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR MARKETING STRATEGY (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); TRENDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); AIRLINES (85%); AIR FARES (85%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); HOTEL CHAINS (76%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



588 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2070 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: ISSUES -- Health Care;
Bush and Clinton Aren't Saying It, But Health-Care Taxes Are Likely

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton both say they will rein in health costs and provide health insurance for 35 million uninsured Americans without raising taxes for anyone.
But experience suggests that such promises are unrealistic, that health-care costs eventually explode even if they are artificially controlled, and that some new taxes are likely if the Government guarantees health insurance coverage for all. 
 In some ways the two candidates have radically different ideas about how to achieve their goals. Mr. Clinton says he has "the guts to control costs" by regulating health care and health insurance. Mr. Bush prefers free-market solutions and says he does not want to create a new Federal bureaucracy to regulate medical prices.
But both candidates are vague about details. Neither says how he will finance his plan. And both seem to underestimate the difficulty of passing legislation to revamp the system.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton, like Ross Perot, the independent candidate for President, agree that there is an urgent need for action. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that under the current system, national spending on health care will rise from $808 billion this year to $1.7 trillion in the year 2000. As part of that, spending on hospitals, doctors and nursing homes will more than double in the next eight years, the budget agency says.
The rest of the economy is expected to grow more slowly. So health care, which now represents 13.6 percent of the nation's total output, will account for 18 percent in the year 2000, the budget office said in a report made public last Wednesday.
 
Some Areas of Agreement
 While there are profound philosophical differences between the Bush and Clinton proposals, in some areas they agree. Both would build on the current health insurance system, which provides coverage to most Americans through employers, rather than seek to replace it wholesale, as others have suggested.
Both want to encourage the use of health maintenance organizations and other forms of managed care. Both want to cut paperwork and increase the use of electronic billing. Both want to curb medical malpractice lawsuits, and Mr. Bush has chosen to make that a campaign issue.
But both candidates are vague about important details, for reasons suggested by Uwe E. Reinhardt, a professor of political economy at Princeton. "Politicians who articulate fully and forthrightly their ideas about reform of the health-care system run the risk of political self-immolation," he said.
Legions of lobbyists, representing doctors, hospitals, drug companies and the elderly, stand ready to challenge any proposal that could hurt them. All proposals, as Professor Reinhardt said, imply "some redistribution of privilege among Americans."
The proposals are drawing more attention than in the past because health care has, for the first time, emerged as a major issue in a Presidential election, and because Congressional leaders are eager to tackle the problem.
Millions of people in middle-income families have either lost health insurance or fear they will lose it in the future; many others find themselves paying large sums for insurance premiums and medical expenses not covered by insurance. With health costs rising twice as fast as other consumer prices, health benefits are a central issue in most labor-management negotiations. Economists say workers eventually bear most of the cost of such benefits as health care consumes a bigger share of their total compensation package.
 
Private Insurance And Managed Care
 Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton say they will make greater use of health maintenance organizations, which provide a wide range of medical services in return for a fixed monthly payment. Both endorse "managed competition" as a strategy to overhaul the health-care market. Under this concept, consumers would join large groups and be represented by a sophisticated buyer, known as a sponsor. The sponsors would encourage insurers, hospitals and doctors to compete for their business. In many cases that sponsor would be a health maintenance organization.
But there is a big difference. Mr. Clinton says such competition should occur within the framework of a comprehensive budget for all health-care spending, public and private. Mr. Bush favors stringent limits on Federal spending for Medicare, Medicaid and other Government benefit programs. But he insists that the Government must not impose limits on private spending for health care.
The President contends that such limits will lead to the rationing of care, will slow medical innovation and reduce access to advanced technology that Americans now take for granted.
Mr. Clinton and many other Democrats contend that managed care, by itself, is not enough to curb the explosive growth of health costs and that the Government should establish some type of limit.
Henry J. Aaron, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution, a research center in Washington, said: "Managed care can be very helpful in making sure that resources are well spent and efficiently used. But managed care by itself cannot cap the growth of health-care spending."
Mr. Bush says he will retain more of the current system, particularly the balance between private health insurance and Government health programs. He would provide tax credits of up to $3,750 a year to help poor families offset the cost of buying private health insurance.
Mr. Clinton has modified his proposal to deflect Republican charges that he favors socialized medicine. But the core of his proposal is the same as it was early this year: He would impose annual limits on health-care spending and would require employers to provide health insurance for employees, either directly or through a purchasing group.
The Governor says a new mandate on employers is needed to guarantee coverage for the uninsured. Of the 35.7 million people without health insurance, 20 million are employed, mostly in small businesses, and 10.5 million others are dependents of workers.
Louis W. Sullivan, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, says the Clinton plan will require "massive new Government intervention in the medical marketplace, eventually leading to a complete Government takeover of health-care financing and delivery."
While Mr. Bush "emphasizes market mechanisms to protect consumer choice," Dr. Sullivan says, "Governor Clinton's plan would enhance the role of a heavy-handed Government health-care bureaucracy."
In fact, the Government is likely to play a bigger role in the health-care market no matter who wins the Presidential election. Democrats and Republicans agree that the Government should set standards for private health insurance to prevent insurers from discriminating against people who are chronically ill or have a history of medical problems.
 
'Play or Pay' Vs. Tax Credits
 During the New Hampshire primary campaign early this year, Mr. Clinton was seen as a supporter of "play or pay" proposals, under which employers must "play," by providing health insurance, or pay a tax to enroll their workers in a public program.
But after Republicans pummeled him as an advocate of new taxes and socialized medicine, Mr. Clinton unveiled a revised version of his plan in a speech to employees of Merck & Company in Rahway, N.J., on Sept. 24.
In that speech Mr. Clinton said of his proposal: "This is a private system. It is not pay or play. It does not require new taxes." Indeed, the Governor's latest proposal would generate substantial new business for private health insurance companies.
Mr. Clinton would retain Medicare, the Federal health insurance program for the elderly and disabled. But low-income people on Medicaid would get private health insurance, with all or part of their premiums paid by the Government.
For nonworkers under 65 years of age and their families, Mr. Clinton would guarantee private health insurance coverage through purchasing groups organized with the help of Federal and state authorities. "We will fold Medicaid into this program for private coverage," he says, but he does not give details.
This failure to specify how he would arrange private insurance for Medicaid recipients is one of the larger gaps in Mr. Clinton's plan.
By contrast, Mr. Bush would keep Medicaid in its current form. Poor people not covered by Medicaid -- fewer than half of the nation's 35.7 million poor people have Medicaid -- would get tax credits to help buy private insurance. Middle-income people would get tax deductions that would help them buy private insurance.
Under Mr. Bush's plan, the Administration says, a family of four with an income of $60,000 a year but no employer-sponsored health insurance could take a tax deduction of $3,750, providing about $1,050 to help buy insurance. That figure is less than a third of the cost for a typical family policy.
The President says the proposed tax credits and deductions "would benefit more than 90 million Americans." But some experts say that at least 25 million people will still be left without insurance under the Bush plan.
 
How High the Cost, And Who Will Pay?
 The Bush Administration says the President's plan will cost $100 billion over five years, mainly because the tax credits diminish Federal revenue. Mr. Bush has not said how he will cover the cost. He has ruled out an option favored by many economists: a limit on tax-free employer contributions to employees' health insurance.
Mr. Clinton does not say how much his plan will cost. For a transition period of several years, he would offer tax credits to small businesses to help them provide health insurance for employees. But he does not say how he will make up for this loss of revenue.
Mr. Clinton is also vague about his proposal for a comprehensive health-care budget, which calls for state-by-state limits on spending for doctors, hospitals and nursing homes. The limits, he says, would be set by "a national health-care board made up of consumers, providers, business, labor and government."
But the Governor sidesteps an important legal question: whether the board would be an agency in the executive branch of Government, with power to enforce its decisions, or simply an advisory panel that makes recommendations to Congress.
If the board is truly a private entity it cannot compel consumers, businesses and private insurance plans to limit their spending. If the board is a Federal agency it can control Government outlays, but would invite lawsuits if it tried to limit spending by private groups. Previous attempts by Federal agencies to set prices have generated litigation.
How the overall budget would be translated into local rates for doctors, hospitals, X-rays, laboratory tests and other services is unclear.
Mr. Clinton says that "states will establish fee schedules applicable to all payers" -- businesses, labor unions, insurance companies -- "in order to meet the global budget targets." He does not say whether the uniform rates would be negotiated with doctors and hospitals or adopted unilaterally, by the national board or by state officials, acting separately or together.
Mr. Perot almost certainly knows more about some aspects of health insurance than either Mr. Bush or Mr. Clinton. After Mr. Perot founded Electronic Data Systems in 1962, as part of the company's business it processed the payment of billions of claims filed with private health insurance companies and with Medicare and Medicaid.
But Mr. Perot's public statements on health-care policy are much vaguer than those of his two rivals. Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families U.S.A., a research and advocacy group that focuses on health care, said Mr. Perot had not offered a comprehensive health plan, "but merely a promise to develop a plan."
Mr. Perot, a billionaire, has said several times that the Government should not pay Medicare or Social Security benefits to people who are extremely wealthy. "One of the leading economists in this country, whose name you'd recognize just like that, has told me that if people like me would give up their Medicare and Social Security, we'd save $100 billion a year," Mr. Perot said in April.
Federal officials like that idea, but say it is inconceivable that it would save $100 billion. There are simply not enough wealthy people to allow the Government to save so much, they say.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "CANDIDATES ON THE ISSUES"
 
Two Proposals for Health Care
 
Medical prices are rising about twice as fast as other consumer prices. The United States spends far more on health care than any other country. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that total health spending will rise from $808 billion this year to $1.7 trillion in the year 2000.
 
Medicare and Medicaid eat up a growing share of the Federal budget. But 35 million Americans have no health insurance.
 
Consumers, business executives and government officials agree that the nation's health-care system must be revamped.
 
THE PROPOSALS
 
President Bush would grant tax credits to poor people and tax deductions to middle-income people to help them buy private health insurance. He would allow self-employed people to deduct 100 percent of the cost of their health insurance premiums (up from the current 25 percent). He would encourage small businesses to pool their purchasing power to buy health insurance at a discount. Mr. Bush says one of his goals for the health-care system is to "keep the government as far out of it as possible."
 
Under Gov. Bill Clinton's plan, a new entity, composed of consumers and providers of health care, would establish national limits on health spending, with a separate budget for each state. Employers would have to buy health insurance for their employees. The Government would guarantee insurance coverage for people who are not working; they would pay premiums that rise with their income. The Government would provide tax credits to small employers to help offset the cost of health insurance in the early years of a transition period. Small businesses could band together, form large groups and buy insurance at a discount.
 
THE SCORECARD
 
The Bush Administration has put together a coherent proposal, but Mr. Bush suffers from a public perception that he ignored this issue for nearly three years. Mr. Bush does not say how he would control health costs. Many experts say his plan would not significantly slow the rise in medical prices and would leave many people uninsured.
 
Mr. Clinton has not confronted the true cost of his program; he asserts that his proposal "does not require new taxes." He says, "We will dedicate Federal savings from cost controls to expanding coverage to all." But hardly anyone believes that such savings would finance expanded coverage for all who need it. Mr. Clinton is vague about the future of Medicaid, the Federal-state program for 30 million low-income people. But he benefits from a public perception that Democrats are more concerned and knowledgeable about health care. (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RATES; FEES (PROFESSIONAL) HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (73%); FAMILY (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); BUDGET FORECASTS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (58%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (95%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



589 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: MOSCOW IS SELLING WEAPONS TO CHINA, U.S. OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
In a move that is undercutting efforts to stem the spread of arms, Russia is selling missile-guidance technology, rocket engines and other advanced weapons systems to China, its onetime adversary, American officials say.
The exports to Beijing worry Bush Administration officials, who fear that a main reason the Chinese are acquiring the technology is to develop new weapons to sell to the third world. 
 "Re-export is a big problem," a Pentagon official said. "You don't know what the Chinese will do with the stuff once they get the high-tech capabilities."
Russia's arms sales have become a growing worry for Washington even as its military threat has shrunk. Moscow's reduction in military spending, combined with a desperate need for hard currency, has led arms factories and military-related institutes to look abroad for orders to survive. At the same time, conversion of military industries to civilian production has proved difficult.
 
Enriching Uranium
 In addition to weapons, a senior Bush Administration official said, Moscow is selling technology to the Chinese that can be used to enrich uranium. Washington is concerned that Beijing will use the technology to improve the design of its nuclear power plants, making them attractive to third-world buyers and further undermining efforts to stop the spread of nuclear arms.
Despite a cooperative relationship with non-Communist Russia, the United States has so far been unable to stop the Russian sales. Russian officials seem to have decided that the proceeds from arms and technology sales are worth the risk of irritating American policy makers.
The Administration, for its part, seems to have concluded that supporting reform in Russia is more important than drawing a firm line against weapons sales and threatening a reduction in financial assistance.
 
U.S. Formally Complains
 Moscow is proceeding with the sale of diesel submarines to Iran, and a Russian company, Glavkosmos, is selling a rocket booster to India in violation of an agreement restricting technology for ballistic missiles. A senior American official said the Administration had complained to Russia and China about the sale, apparently with no effect.
Undermining its leverage, the protests by Washington have come as Western nations, including the United States, have shown little restraint themselves in selling arms. The Administration, although it has exhorted governments of other industrial nations to control the spread of destabilizing weapons, appears to have placed emphasis on competing with its allies for arms deals as it faces a faltering economy and a difficult election campaign.
Two such deals -- the sales of combat jets to Saudi Arabia and Taiwan totaling $14.8 billion, announced in September -- exceed the value of American arms sales to all nations of the third world last year. Administration officials say that the Russians would be selling weapons to Iran and China regardless of American sales. But Russian officials have cited such deals to justify their exports.
The pattern of Moscow's arms sales has changed considerably since the cold war, when it provided billions of dollars in arms to nations like Cuba, Iraq and Libya, often at concessionary terms, in an effort to extend or maintain its military influence.
What the Russians are after is cash, not influence. That, plus the defeat of Iraq in the Persian Gulf war, which effectively removed Baghdad as a potential client, has limited the number of prospective customers. Two of the major customers are Iran and China.
 
Risky Business
 "In absolute figures Russian exports have gone down," an Administration official said, "but the reality is that the customers that still want to buy from them are questionable."
And Richard F. Grimmett, an expert on conventional arms sales at the Congressional Research Service, observed: "The Russian focus is on those countries that are willing to pay cash. There is a tremendous focus on Iran. China has picked up, too. The Chinese cannot get high-technology weapon systems from other suppliers. What you have there is a marriage of convenience."
Russia has sold diesel submarines and SU-24 and MIG-29 aircraft to Iran, and is providing spare parts for some of the Iraqi aircraft that were flown to Iran during the gulf war -- planes that the Iranians have said they will not return. And along with Czechoslovakia, Russia has sold T-72 tanks to Syria.
 
Better Guidance Systems
 American officials say Moscow has sold missile-guidance technology, rocket engines and rocket technology to China. China's air-to-air missiles are not well equipped to seek out enemy planes, and Russian technology is expected to enable Beijing to improve them. China's surface-to-surface missiles are also considered to have inferior guidance systems and could benefit considerably from Russian exports, American officials said.
Moscow has sold S-300 surface-to-air missiles to China, the officials say. The S-300 is a Patriot-like system designed to shoot down planes and missiles.
In addition, Russia has sold 24 SU-27 fighters to China. American officials believe that Beijing is buying the planes in hope of acquiring production technology so that future aircraft can be assembled at home. Adding to the American concern, there are indications of discussions between Russians and Chinese officials about the joint production in China of tactical missiles and other weapons systems, an Administration official said.
Russia is also selling tanks and tank technology to Beijing.
A further worry, a senior Administration official said, is the sale of advanced Russian dual-use technology, which can be employed to enrich uranium for nuclear power plants. The United States is worried that this technology transfer will help China modernize its nuclear power plants and make them more marketable in the third world.
Both Russia and China have recently announced the sale of nuclear power plants to Iran, a transaction that disturbs Washington. The Administration believes that even ostensibly peaceful nuclear programs will enhance Teheran's expertise and help it develop nuclear weapons.
 
Yeltsin Lays It Out
 The Russians have not been secretive about arms sales. In February, President Boris N. Yeltsin said weapons exports would be a cushion for the Russian arms industry as the country tried to make the transition to a civilian economy.
More recently, a Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman justified the sale of three diesel submarines to Iran in blunter terms, saying it was a way of raising cash during a difficult period.
"Russia cannot in principle, taking into account the economic situation in this country, give up the receipts of freely convertible currency through the sales of armaments abroad," the spokesman said.
Whatever the rationale, Moscow has been stepping up sales efforts. In August, it held a major air show and used the occasion to promote arms, displaying surface-to-air missiles and self-propelled artillery. Signs in Russian and English said customers could buy military aircraft out of existing inventories or purchase specially configured planes off production lines. Chinese and North Koreans were among the foreign officials examining the weapons systems.
Norman Friedman, an American military expert, remarked, "They have got one product that is worth buying and they are selling it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (66%); POWER PLANTS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



590 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Pulse -- New Hampshire;
Clinton Leads in New Hampshire, a G.O.P. Bastion

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KEENE, N. H., Oct. 17

 BODY:
Four years ago, George Bush scratched out a pivotal victory over Senator Bob Dole of Kansas in the New Hampshire primary and went on to triumph in November, carrying the state with 63 percent of the vote against a regional rival.
"Thank you, New Hampshire!" he exulted on election night. 
 This year, with the local economy haggard, the conservative columnist Patrick J. Buchanan threw President Bush on the defensive while the slushy snows of February covered the ground, and he is still there eight months later as the trees stage their riotous autumn color show.
"The President didn't get the message," said former Representative Charles G. Douglas 3d, who backed Mr. Buchanan. "He never came to grips with the economy, and now it's too late. New Hampshire gave him his wake-up call, but George Bush hit the snooze button."
 
'Settling Into Clinton'
 Mr. Bush beat Mr. Buchanan in the primary, of course, but he pulled only 53 percent of the vote. And now he trails Gov. Bill Clinton in the polls in this most Republican of New England states, as in every other state in the region, and most leading politicians of both parties here say he seems headed for defeat.
"People have given up on Bush," said Richard Bennett of the American Research Group, a Manchester poll-taking firm. "There was a day of reckoning, sometime in mid-September, when they stopped waiting for him to give them a reason to vote for him. They decided he wasn't going to do anything in this campaign, and now, as the debates unwind, they're settling into Clinton, getting comfortable with the new man."
Mr. Bennett's most recent survey, conducted Oct. 2-8, showed Mr. Clinton ahead, 42 percent to 37, with 11 percent for Ross Perot and 10 percent undecided. Eight hundred people whom Mr. Bennett considered likely to vote were interviewed for the poll, which had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
A lead of that size could still be overcome, of course, and Gov. Judd Gregg, who is running for the seat of retiring Senator Warren B. Rudman, insisted in a brief interview that it would be.
But more recent private polls have found a similar trend, and Mr. Bennett's detailed figures show the President in deep trouble not only with independents, many of whom favor Mr. Perot, but also with Republicans. Fewer than 60 percent of Republicans said that they were prepared to back Mr. Bush; he is especially weak among those who describe themselves as moderately conservative rather than very conservative.
 
'Economic Demolition Derby'
 To a great degree, the problem is the economy. In 1988 it was New Hampshire's pride and joy, but in 1992 it is the state's despair. With high-tech jobs vanishing and real estate at a standstill, with five of New Hampshire's biggest banks closed and consolidated into two, with almost half the retail space empty in downtown Concord, the state capital, and with 45,000 liens this year on houses because their owners failed to pay property taxes, Chris Spirou, the Democratic state chairman, speaks of witnessing an "economic demolition derby."
Mr. Gregg, who appears to hold a moderate lead in his own race, said state revenue had exceeded his greatly reduced forecasts in nine of the last 10 months, indicating that New Hampshire was slowly emerging from its economic slump. But the Presidential race is still "a lot closer than it should be," he said, because "people here don't think the Federal Government is doing the job."
Senator Rudman, a Republican who is by far the state's most popular politician, a near-icon whose name is invoked in the television commercials of both Mr. Gregg and his Democratic rival, John Rauh, paints a much gloomier picture of Mr. Bush's prospects in citing the same major problem.
"Most recessions in the past affected mostly blue-collar people," Mr. Rudman said. "I don't mean to be callous, but they cope with layoffs because they're used to them, and after things pick up they go back to their jobs. This time there are people all over the state like a couple of neighbors of mine, computer people, thought the boom would last forever -- both lost their jobs, everything leveraged so they've lost their cars and may end up homeless soon.
"There's been no President -- not F.D.R., not Ronald Reagan -- who could survive the kind of political rage that that produces."
 
No Move to the Center
 Tom Rath, a former State Attorney General whom many here consider a keen political strategist, sees another reason for the Republican Party's problems here this year: a failure to recognize the difference between the primary campaign and the general-election campaign.
"Running against Buchanan in the primary, Bush had to move to the right," Mr. Rath said. "His people felt that was the only way to contain the trouble, here and in the South. Fine. But in the general election you have to appeal to a lot of people who aren't ideologically driven, the moderates, the centrists. That's what conventions are for, moving back to the center, but at Houston we did the opposite."
It is not so much that any individual constituency was offended. Abortion has not figured heavily in the campaigns here in Justice David H. Souter's home state, and polls show no large gap between male and female voters. But the moderate Republicans have felt shut out, and one of their most visible figures, State Senator Susan McLane, has endorsed both Mr. Clinton and Arnie Arneson, the Democratic candidate for governor.
David Moore, a political science professor at the University of New Hampshire, who also takes polls, asserted that Mr. Bush had lost so much credibility that he found it hard to catch voters' ears.
"People in New Hampshire think he has stronger personal characteristics," Professor Moore said. "They certainly think he's better qualified to conduct foreign policy. But it doesn't matter. No matter what he has tried, he hasn't been able to turn people's attention from the present either to the past and his triumph in the gulf war, or to the future and his promises of better days ahead."
 
Defying a Political Maxim
 Mr. Bush has spent $23,000 to show some of his commercials on a Manchester television station, but he has not visited the state this fall; it has only four electoral votes. His campaign's low energy level, especially compared with that of Mr. Clinton, who attended the Democratic state convention on Sept. 26, could hurt other Republican candidates on the ballot.
Ms. Arnesen is trying to disprove New Hampshire's oldest political maxim: that anyone who advocates a broad-based tax loses. The high rate of foreclosures here results from high property taxes, which results in turn from the fact that this state gives less aid to schools than any other state, which results, finally, from the lack of any broad-based state tax.
She has advocated a state income tax, with three-quarters of the proceeds going to local communities for property-tax relief, and there are some signs that she has made headway in her race against Attorney General Stephen Merrill, a protege of the former Governor and White House chief of staff, John H. Sununu.
Mr. Gregg, a champion of small government and low taxes in the New Hampshire mold, appears to be in better shape. His opponent, he says, "marches in the army of Ted Kennedy." He has painted Mr. Rauh, a nephew of the late Joseph L. Rauh Jr., a leading Washington lawyer, as "a cross between Karl Marx and John Gotti," in the words of an editorial in The Keene Sentinel.
"For the first time in 25 years," said Mr. Bruno, the former Democratic chairman, "we have a real two-party fight in this state, and that's thanks mainly to George Bush's weakness as a candidate."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "A Domino Effect"; "Population shows breakdown of New Hampshire's population by ethnic group, 1980 and 1990; "Registered Voters," shows breakdown of party affiliation among registered voters, 1988 and 1992; "How New Hampshire Has Voted in Presidential Elections," shows results for last four presidential elections; "Per Capita Income," shows per capita income compared with U.S. for 1988 and 1991; "Unemployment,"shows unemployment rate compared with U.S., 1988 and Aug. 1992 (Sources: America Votes; Census Bureau; Commerce Dept., Bureau of Economic Analysis; Bureau of Labor Statistics; New Hampshire Secretary of State, Elections Division)
Map of New Hampshire, indicating Concord.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (98%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CHARLES G LAWSON TRUCKING (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAMPSHIRE UNITED STATES (98%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (98%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); TRENDS (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (71%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); RUDMAN, WARREN B (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JUDD GREGG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



591 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 54; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Lord Franks, Diplomat Who Led Marshall Plan Effort, Dies at 87

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
Oliver Shewell Franks, a British diplomat and academic who played a crucial role in putting the Marshall Plan for European recovery into effect after World War II, died on Thursday at his home in Oxford, England. He was 87 years old.
The cause of death was not disclosed. 
 In his varied career, Lord Franks was a leader in government, diplomacy, education and business. He served as a top procurement official in Britain's World War II effort, as Ambassador to the United States in the formative years of the cold war and as chairman of Lloyds Bank P.L.C., one of Britain's largest banks.
He was also a professor of philosophy, provost of Queen's College and head of Worcester College, both at Oxford. And he directed a 1983 commission that held an inquiry into the events leading up to Britain's war with Argentina over the Falkland Islands.
He first came to national prominence while in his 30's, when he left academia to work as a wartime administrator. Impressing officials with his analytical and managerial talents, he steadily advanced in rank until he was promoted to the critical post of Permanent Secretary of the combined Ministries of Supply and Aircraft Production.
 
Mastery of Foreign Policy
 He was known for his intellectual detachment and purposefulness. When a German bomb exploded near a building on the Thames that housed his office and sleeping quarters, the 6 feet4 inch Mr. Franks dashed into the street wearing his pajamas -- and carrying his briefcase.
He gained an international reputation for his mastery of foreign-policy issues and economics during Western Europe's postwar recovery. In 1947 he headed Britain's delegation to the Organization for European Economic Cooperation, a 16-nation conference in Paris that drafted recommendations for parceling out American aid under the Marshall Plan.
Elected chairman of the organization's Executive and the Economic Coordinating Committees, he was credited with resolving the conflicting needs and interests of the 16 European countries.
In 1948 Prime Minister Clement Attlee appointed him Ambassador to the United States. At the age of 43, he was the second-youngest ever to hold that post, and he played a significant role in cementing the relationship between the two nations as the cold war began.
 
Falkland War Post
 In a farewell address in 1952, he hailed British-American unity on Korea and the Berlin blockade. He said the Berlin airlift "was the first time perhaps that we both fully recognized the new peril that faced us and straightaway took joint and effective steps to cope with it."
Back in England, he was chairman of Lloyds Bank from 1954 to 1962. He drew attention in 1959 for shifting the focus of his analysis of world affairs from the East-West conflict to the emerging issues between the industrialized North and the underdeveloped South.
Returning to academia, Lord Franks headed Worcester College from 1962 to 1976. Before the war, he had been provost at Queen's College, a professor at the University of Glasgow and a visiting professor at the University of Chicago.
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher named him in 1982 to head an inquiry into the Falklands war, his last high-level appointment. His report exonerated her administration of blame for failing to anticipate the Argentine invasion of the islands.
 
Pondering a Question
 He was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1942, knighted in 1945 and given a life peerage in 1962.
For a time he was considered a possible candidate for Prime Minister. But for all his erudition, Lord Franks was uncomfortable with political glad-handing and social small talk. Asked at a dinner party to name his favorite film star, he thought for some time while puffing on his pipe and finally said he would have to ponder more deeply before answering.
He was born on Feb. 16, 1905, and grew up in Bristol. He graduated from Queen's College, where he studied classics, ancient history and philosophy.
His wife of 56 years, the former Barbara Tanner, died in 1987. They had two daughters, Caroline and Alison.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Oliver Shewell Franks (Camera Press, 1983)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (83%); LLOY (LSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ENGLAND (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (83%); MARSHALL PLAN (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ENGLAND (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); WORLD WAR II (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BOARD CHANGES (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); PHILOSOPHY (73%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); 

PERSON: FRANKS, OLIVER SHEWELL (LORD); LAMBERT, BRUCE OLIVER SHEWELL FRANKS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



592 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 51; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1763 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the Debate Between New York's Senate Candidates

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the senatorial debate last night broadcast from WRGB-TV in Schenectady, as transcribed by The New York Times. 
 
Abortion Rights
 MODERATOR While polls say the economy ranks as No. 1 on voters' minds, perhaps the most volatile subject you face is abortion. Senator D'Amato is on the Right to Life line but recently voted against the Bush abortion gag order. Mr. Abrams is a vocal supporter of a woman's right to choose. First, clearly state your stand on abortion and then tell us why you think you're right.
. . . 
 D'AMATO I'm pro-life. Everyone knows that. It's a matter of conscience. I understand people who have a difference of opinion; who are pro choice. My position is that unless the life of the mother, rape or incest, under those conditions, yes, but no, no -- and it's, again, the matter that I understand where people have a difference of opinion. But even pro-choice people, I believe, overwhelmingly understand that a youngster, 12 or 13 or 14, should have parental consent. I think I differ greatly with the Attorney General on that. He does not believe that there should be parental consent.
 
. . .
 It seems to me that a 12 or 13 or 14 who's frightened, etc., should have the advice, should have the counsel of her parents, and they should not be shut out of the process and, indeed, I think most people, again, even those who are pro choice, would agree with me on that.
ABRAMS Senator D'Amato, just a couple of weeks ago, was one of only 14 members of the United States Senate to seek to continue the ban on using fetal tissue for important medical investigations and experimentations in order to try to solve the answer to the diseases of Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease and diabetes. This is a clear difference between the two of us: I want to go to the Senate to vote for the freedom of choice act, in order to get rid of the overriding -- rid of the kinds of decisions that have been coming down from the United States Supreme Court that Al D'Amato sanctions with his confirmation votes for those justices.
 
Sticking to the Issues
 MODERATOR This campaign has seen charges of sleaze leveled by both sides. Just this week Mr. Abrams accused Senator D'Amato of being right wing to the point of fascism. Senator D'Amato has accused Mr. Abrams of being hopelessly liberal. Now I want you to both be specific on what your opponent has done that makes him unworthy of being the next U.S. Senator from New York.
ABRAMS Well, I indicated, again, there was an unfortunate expression used, and I apologize for that, but then I had hoped that Senator D'Amato would pull off his negative commercials, his distorted commercials, which would then allow me not to be able to respond or to force me to respond so that we can come here tonight and be, on all occasions, talking about the issues that separate us: on choice, on the economy, on health care, on the environment, on what people want to have changed in this country and in this society. I have run, I have been an elected official over the course of a lifetime with a strong record of integrity and I resent the kind of character assassination that has taken place in the commercials of Senator D'Amato. The fact of the matter is that Senator D'Amato has been criticized by the Senate Ethics Committee for running his office in an improper and inappropriate manner and that his brother has been able to misuse that office for personal gain. I think that issue looms large in terms of people evaluating whether or not Senator D'Amato deserves another term in the United States Senate.
MODERATOR Senator, your response.
D'AMATO Well, there goes Bob Abrams again. And I think it's unfortunate. Because I think the people of New York are tired. They're tired of this kind of wallowing in the mud; wallowing in the gutter. I think he owes the people of New York -- you know, the people of New York know that Bob doesn't like me. But, you know, they want to hear us talk about the issues and the facts and get out of the gutter.
Thursday night, they had a Presidential debate, and it concentrated on the issues and the people said they wanted that. They don't want to hear a continuation of this same kind of tired charge because he doesn't want to talk about the issues. He doesn't want to talk about the fact that his health care plan is going to raise taxes and government spending 38 percent. He doesn't want to talk about the need for quality education and how he would get quality education. He wants to wrap himself desperately around Mr. Clinton even though on major issues they differ. He calls Clinton's approach to health care a Band-Aid approach.
 
. . .
 I didn't invent that he endorsed and supported the Russo Bill. [That bill would establish a national health-insurance system.] That's what he did. He campaigned on it during the campaign. I didn't invent the fact of what his cuts would mean to the economy, that's what he did.
I didn't say untruthfully he referred to me as a fascist and then three days later sat there and cheered Bella Abzug; he laughed while she and others not only called me a fascist but also Nazi. Now, you know, stereotype me as the same conduct similar to the Nazis. And then he says that this campaign has hit a low; it certainly has, and he should change it.

 
Link to Clinton
 MODERATOR O.K. Mr. Abrams.
ABRAMS Senator D'Amato once again, just now, for the second time on this show, has misstated my position on the funding of health care. He knows full well that my funding is very different from Congressman Russo because I said it here earlier tonight. I've said it many times. It's been printed in the newspapers and he knows that. And, yes, he persists in misrepresenting. It's interesting.
. . . Bill Clinton today issued a statement, because in the last 24 hours Al D'Amato has tried to get closer to Bill Clinton, saying that I'm separate from him or he is closer to him on positions. Here's what Bill Clinton says: "I reject Senator D'Amato's attempt to link himself to me or my campaign. I stand firmly with Bob Abrams, who is New York's best chance for real change and leadership in the U.S. Senate. Bob Abrams understands we must create jobs, improve our schools, train our labor force and provide affordable housing and health care. He also understands the need to heal the wounds of the past 12 years and to bring people together. New Yorkers need his leadership."
So he shouldn't try to misrepresent again as to where he is vis-a-vis Bill Clinton and where Bill Clinton is vis-a-vis Bob Abrams.
MODERATOR Al D'Amato.
D'AMATO All I'm saying, and someone said it much better than me, is let's look at the record. Al Smith said that. Take a look at the record. On defense, Bill Clinton calls for defense cuts over the next five years of $110 billion. Bob Abrams, $280 billion. If you work at General Electric and you're on a defense project, forget about it. If you work at any of the military bases, whether they be at Staten Island or whether they be at Griffiss or whether they be at Fort Drum, forget about it. If you work at Grumman in Long Island, you're out. Four hundred thousand people would lose their jobs in New York under the Abrams's plan.
 
. . .


 
Education
 MODERATOR Education and health care in America are both getting poor grades. Briefly, tell us what you would do to improve each.
D'AMATO Well, let's take a look at education. We're not spending less money today on education, we're spending more money. But the question is, is the money getting into the classrooms? Is the money getting in to do the job for the kids. When you have a situation where two out of three dollars get stuck into the bureaucracy and doesn't get in to the kids; when you don't have merit pay for good teachers, competency testing for teachers; when you don't have freedom of choice -- and I'm delighted to begin to see some movement in that area, where the city system is saying they will involve and give parents an opportunity to send their kids to different systems. There is no competition, there is no initiative, and that's why we've fallen so badly behind.
 
. . .
 ABRAMS Well, dollars are important in education. And the fact of the matter is during the D'Amato years in the United States Senate during the last two administrations of President Reagan and George Bush, this state has lost $300 million. As of 1989 for example, as contrasted with 1980. That's a lot of money that hemorrhages from local school districts. Teachers being fired, curriculums being cut. It's not only money. Of course you just can't throw money at a problem and expect the solution to that problem. You need some fundamental reform. Magnet schools, cluster classes, you need some Head Start. Al D'Amato voted three times during his years in the Senate against guaranteeing a Head Start seat for kids in this state and this country.
 
. . .
Gay Rights
 ABRAMS I've been a strong supporter of civil rights and civil-liberties legislation throughout my life and my career, including equal rights for those who are lesbians and gays, going back many, many years. And I would go to Washington to be a prime sponsor of legislation that would make sure that there would be no discrimination against people based upon their sexual orientation as it relates to their ability to get a job or to live in housing. Too many gay people are being bashed on, beaten upon, and that's why I've supported legislation that would protect anybody -- and the public interest in terms of any bias violence -- based upon religion or race or sexual orientation. So I've got a very strong commitment to civil rights and civil liberties throughout that life and career, and would bring that as a fighter for that kind of legislation in the Senate.
D'AMATO There's nothing more important than government protecting the rights of every citizen, and that right should be protected regardless of a person's sexual predilections, regardless of what they are, what their color is, what their ethnic, race, religion, -- it makes no difference. I agree that we have to do more to see to it that this is the case.
I've encouraged them in a number of cases, and I won't even mention a case. I think the Attorney General's encouraged them in the same case to become more actively involved.
We have an absolute obligation to see to it that no citizen has got to fear for his or her safety because of who they are and what they are, regardless of race, color, religion or sex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) SENATE ETHICS COMMITTEE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) SENATE ETHICS COMMITTEE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING ABORTION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RANKINGS (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (73%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (68%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (62%); DIABETES (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



593 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1807 words

HEADLINE: Review Finds Inquiry Into Iraqi Loans Was Flawed

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO with DEAN BAQUET, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
Sometime in late 1989, a team of Federal prosecutors in Atlanta made a decision, one that would guide one of the biggest bank fraud investigations in history and influence President Bush's troubled re-election campaign. The Italian Government, they concluded, did not know that a bank it owned had secretly lent billions of dollars to Iraq, providing crucial funds for President Saddam Hussein's military machine.
Three years later, a reconstruction of the Government's investigation of corruption at the Atlanta branch of the Italian-owned Banca Nazionale del Lavoro shows that the conclusion at the heart of the case -- that Rome was uninvolved -- was based on incomplete information and a flawed investigation. 
 The reconstruction, based on interviews with current and former Government officials and on hundreds of pages of documents, portrays an investigation marred by bitter feuding among Atlanta prosecutors, their superiors in the Justice Department and the Central Intelligence Agency.
One Justice Department memo, from July 1990, shows that prosecutors were concerned early on that the C.I.A. itself might have played a role in the bank's dealings with Iraq and other foreign governments. C.I.A. officials, for their part, despite screaming matches with frustrated prosecutors, never shared potentially explosive leads that might have reshaped the whole case.
 
Who Was the 'Victim'?
 An examination of the decision made in 1989 is crucial. If the Rome headquarters was aware, then it could not have been the victim of the fraud and the prosecution would have a much weaker case. And if the Rome bank -- and therefore the Italian Government -- was somehow involved, the scandal could have damaged Italy's banking system and toppled the Government of Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti.
Prosecutors in Atlanta were insistent that the bank had to be a victim for the case to hold up. Gail McKenzie, the lead prosecutor, told her superiors in Washington on February 1990 that without that premise, a multibillion-dollar case would disintegrate into a minor prosecution of technicalities.
An Atlanta grand jury eventually charged that the manager of the Atlanta branch, Christopher P. Drogoul, masterminded the scheme, authorizing $5 billion in loans to Iraq and other countries, and concocted an elaborate subterfuge to conceal it from his superiors. Mr. Drogoul at first pleaded guilty to the charges, then changed his mind and withdrew his plea during the sentencing hearing. The case will now go to trial.
Last week Attorney General William P. Barr named a retired Federal judge from New Jersey to investigate the Bush Administration's handling of the bank-fraud case.
 
Change of Heart
 Some Congressional Democrats say the recent revelations are only a tiny part of a two-pronged Government-wide cover-up: to protect and conceal its dealings with Mr. Hussein, and to accommodate the Italian Government. Even more ominously, these critics, without any real proof, have begun to suggest that the Administration knew about the loans all along.
The unfolding story of the Atlanta prosecutor has become a major issue in the closing weeks of the Presidential campaign, with the Administration vigorously denying accusations that it engaged in a cover-up.
The internal documents -- including correspondence among senior prosecutors, draft indictments and State Department cables -- do not resolve such questions. But they provide the most detailed picture of the decision-making and analysis that drove the inquiry, and offer a portrait of how behind-the-scenes battling influenced the case.
The following are among the findings from the review of the documents:
*The Justice Department believed from the outset that Rome must have been involved, then inexplicably changed its mind just weeks before the 1991 indictment of Mr. Drogoul. In one Nov. 29, 1990, memo, Lawrence A. Urgenson, chief of the department's fraud section, complained to a colleague of a "virtual absence of any hard probing" of Rome's guilt. Atlanta prosecutors contend that the reason for the change was simple: they were able to make a convincing case that Mr. Drogoul was the mastermind. But during 1989 and 1990, the Italian Government extensively lobbied United States officials, including the American Ambassador in Rome and senior Administration officials in Washington, explaining that the case could have severe foreign policy implications.
*Though the Justice Department has insisted that the indictment was based solely on a review of the facts, economic and foreign-policy considerations played a major role. When one department official considered charging the bank as a whole, the lead Atlanta prosecutor argued that it would create a "crisis to the stability of world monetary markets."
*Federal prosecutors repeatedly struggled to elicit information from the C.I.A. about the case, but to little avail. Intelligence reports that were provided in 1989 and 1990 dealt mainly with Iraq's military purchasing network abroad, not the bank's activities in either Rome or Atlanta. David L. Boren, the Oklahoma Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, now says that during this time the C.I.A. had documents indicating that Rome had at least some knowledge of the scheme. The internal memos suggest that such information might have made prosecutors more skeptical of the Italian Government's position.
 
'Suspicious as Anyone Else'
 The documents describing the internal decision-making in the case were provided by Government officials outside the C.I.A. and the Justice Department. The Justice Department declined to make Mr. Urgenson available to discuss the case, citing the appointment of the special prosecutor. The C.I.A. said on Friday that it would have no further comment.
Gerrilyn Brill, the acting United States Attorney in Atlanta, said in a recent interview that when investigators swooped down on the Atlanta bank in August 1989 and seized boxes of records, the prosecutors went in with an open mind about Rome's involvement. "We were as suspicious as anyone else," Ms. Brill said. "We didn't go into this with a predetermined theory. How could so much money go undetected? But we never came up with evidence higher-ups were involved."
By Ms. Brill's account, about five months after the raid Atlanta prosecutors presented the Justice Department with a first draft of an indictment, one that portrayed the bank's headquarters as unwitting dupes of a sophisticated fraud. The department sent it right back, contending that the Atlanta team had not fully investigated whether the scheme also involved high-level bank and Iraqi Government officials.
In one internal memo dated Nov. 29, 1990, Mr. Urgenson argued that the prosecutors had not been skeptical enough of Rome. He wrote, "I am not yet convinced that the principal prosecutive theory articulated by the U.S. Attorney's office -- that B.N.L. was an unwitting victim, and that there was no involvement by any B.N.L. personnel outside the Atlanta agency -- is sufficiently well founded."
By Mr. Urgenson's account in the memo, one major problem was that prosecutors were dependent on Rome for all of their information. They had never managed to dig into the bank and develop their own more skeptical sources of information. He wrote, "Part of the difficulty we are experiencing in this regard is the virtual absence of any hard probing of B.N.L. New York or Rome personnel -- an unfortunate concomitant of relying so heavily upon B.N.L. for assistance."
 
Crucial 3-Month Period
 But the Government created this problem for itself. For reasons that remain unexplained, the investigative team canceled a planned visit to the bank's Rome headquarters, which is on the Via Veneto across the street from the American Embassy. The executives whom investigators wanted to interview were flown to Atlanta by the bank, as were bank records.
Sometime between the end of November and February 1991, the Justice Department changed its mind and went along with the decision to charge Mr. Drogoul as the main person in the scheme. The documents do not offer a hint at how such a major change in position was made. Lawyers involved in the case acknowledge that no powerful new evidence emerged. Ms. Brill said the Department changed its mind in January 1990, after reviewing the evidence again.
The documents show that at least one prosecutor was concerned that the C.I.A. might have had some relationship with the bank. On July 3, 1990, Rimantas A. Rukstele, then head of the criminal division of the United States Attorney's Office in Atlanta, wrote a letter to the Deputy Assistant Attorney General Mark M. Richard, citing some "potential stumbling blocks to the investigation." Among those he cited was the question of "what knowledge and role, if any, the Central Intelligence Agency had or played in B.N.L. dealings with foreign governments in general and Iraq more specifically."
Mr. Rukstele added, "As you well know, experience has demonstrated that C.I.A. knowledge and participation can seriously impact a decision to prosecute." He did not state the reason for his concern.
Over the last few weeks, the C.I.A. has uncovered several classified reports, primarily from its station in Rome after the August 1989 raid on the Atlanta branch, indicating that the Rome bank, or at least officials within it, knew about the scheme and may have been involved in it. Most of the documents were not turned over to the Justice Department until after Mr. Drogoul's sentencing hearing began in mid-September.
Although the documents are highly classified and much about their content is not known, Senator Boren has read them and says they would have been extremely useful to the prosecution. A team from Mr. Boren's committee began taking sworn depositions from C.I.A. officials at the agency's headquarters on Friday as part of the committee's investigation of the mishandling of intelligence information in the bank fraud case, United States officials said today.
One document, dated October 1989, cites an interview with an official from Danieli, an Italian steelmaker that was providing a factory to Iraq, according to United States officials who have read it. The official said a representative from the Rome bank went to the company in Udine to discuss financing for the project, telling officials there to contact the Atlanta branch of the bank, which they did. The C.I.A. report concluded that the incident was at odds with the theory that the Rome bank did not know of the Atlanta bank scheme.
Another C.I.A. report that same month cited a source considered generally reliable who said that Western bankers believed that the Rome headquarters of the bank was aware from the beginning of the activities of its Atlanta branch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BNL (MIL) (57%); BL (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (91%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (91%); ROME, GA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO INVERSIONES ARGENTINAS SA (57%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO SPA (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (91%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); ROME, ITALY (91%); ROME, GA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ELECTION ISSUES; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); SCANDALS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SENTENCING (73%); JUDGES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; BAQUET, DEAN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



594 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: European Unity: Reaffirming Respect for Diversity

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, England, Oct. 17

 BODY:
The European Community summit meeting here Friday was more an exercise in public relations than hardball diplomacy, an attempt to sell skeptical parliaments and doubting publics on a more limited vision of European unity, one that will take into account separate national identities.
But by conceding that the building of Europe had often been left to a remote bureaucracy in Brussels that few voters in Britain, France, Italy, Germany or other countries understand, the leaders may well have marked a turning point -- away from the idea of a "United States of Europe" that was in the minds of the community's founders 35 years ago. 
 Even Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany acknowledged Friday that the phrase itself was easily misunderstood. "Now we must be more careful, because it's not New York and Texas and California getting together," he said. "It's separate European traditions with distinct cultural identities."
In their final declaration Friday, the community's leaders pledged themselves to continue to move toward closer political and monetary cooperation, as outlined in the treaty agreed to last year in the Dutch city of Maastricht.
But they also reaffirmed their determination to respect "the interests and diversity of member states," and promised to produce specific ideas for making the community more open, more respectful of national traditions and more democratic, when the leaders meet again in Edinburgh in December.
 
A Thatcher Echo
 Only a few years ago, Britain was alone among its European partners in voicing skepticism about the trend toward European federalism, which Margaret Thatcher, then the Prime Minister, regarded as anathema and a fatal compromise of Britain's national sovereignty.
But the last several months have brought home some hard lessons to advocates of European unity, who have seen their complacent vision of a federal Europe shaken by the economic and political turbulence surrounding the debate over the pending treaty on European union.
In June, Danish voters narrowly rejected the treaty in a national referendum. Two months later, French voters narrowly approved the accord, but only after a bruising campaign that not only revealed deep popular doubts over the treaty, but set off a wave of damaging speculation in currency markets across Europe.
The resulting turmoil, which drove the British pound and Italian lira out of the European monetary system, is still buffeting European parliaments and economies, and forcing Community leaders to rethink exactly what it is they want from European unity.
 
Seeking to Reassure Markets
 Indeed, the summit Friday had been called by Prime Minister John Major of Britain to reassure European markets and people that their leaders were still committed to the goal of greater political and economic unity, despite concern about whether separate national identities would be submerged in the process.
Much of the debate about where Europe goes next revolves around the application of what is called "subsidiarity," an arcane term of theological origin that is enshrined within the Maastricht treaty. Critics of federalism want to define the term to mean that actions should be considered in Brussels only when they cannot be taken by member states.
During discussions in the corridors in Birmingham, and at briefings with various national officials, the notion was often compared to the intent of the 10th Amendment to the United States Constitution, ratified as part of the Bill of Rights in 1791 and reserving to the states and the people those powers "not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States."
But while the idea is reassuring to those European states whose officials say they do not want their national identities swallowed up in a United States of Europe, the debate over the structure of a European union is far from over.
An aide to Jacques Delors, the president of the European Commission, said on Friday that authority can be reserved to the member nations only after they first join a federal system, and some nations, including Britain and Denmark, don't want to go that far in the first place.
"We are not in a federal system and subsidiarity can only be applied in a federal system," said an aide, quoting Mr. Delors.
 
A Political Problem
 During the meetings here, those kinds of questions -- as well as divisions within community ranks over liberalizing world trade -- were deferred. Instead, the European leaders concentrated on the more immediate political problem of restoring public confidence in the treaty among ordinary European citizens, and helping ease the path for ratification of it by Danish voters and the British Parliament.
Under terms of the treaty, it will not come into effect unless it is ratified by all 12 member states of the Community. So far, France, Ireland, Luxembourg and Greece have approved it.
The Danes say they are willing to put the treaty up for a second vote if they can be assured of not having to join a single European currency, one of the long-term goals of the treaty.
Mr. Major will put the treaty up for a vote in the House of Commons this fall, where he is facing a rebellion among members of his own Conservative Party.
On the one hand, Mr. Major emphasized the importance of the European Community to the British economy, noting that 60 percent of Britain's trade is within the community. He also praised the declaration passed in Birmingham as evidence that the community is moving to become more open and responsive to its citizens.
At the same time, Mr. Major did not hesitate on Friday to act without consulting or even informing his European partners, by cutting the British interest rate a full point, to 8 percent, in the face of mounting anger over his handling of the economy, including a decision earlier in the week to lay off 30,000 coal miners and close more than half of Britain's coal mines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (91%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; ITALY; GERMANY EUROPE (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (91%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; SUMMIT CONFERENCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); EURO (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%); BRITISH POUND (67%); TRENDS (67%); CURRENCIES (65%); APPROVALS (62%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (57%); HELMUT KOHL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



595 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-European Trade Gains Seen as Likely

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Ontario, Oct. 17

 BODY:
As trade representatives of the world's wealthiest economies met here, a European Community official said today that a breakthrough between the United States and Europe was possible in deadlocked world trade talks by November.
The community's External Affairs Commissioner, Frans Andriessen, said he saw signs that Washington and Brussels could soon overcome their impasse on agricultural subsidies. This issue is one of the main stumbling blocks in the six-year-old Uruguay round of talks on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
 The community has offered to compensate American oilseed producers for their losses from its subsidies, but the United States insists that Europe has not offered enough.
Trade officials of the United States, the European Community, Canada and Japan are meeting here this weekend to discuss the differences between Washington and the community on access to their markets and the lowering of tariffs and import limitations.
At a meeting on Friday in Birmingham, England, community leaders said they had made progress on several key issues in the GATT talks. The four-way talks end on Sunday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ENGLAND (58%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (67%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY; GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (91%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY; GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (91%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ENGLAND (58%); ONTARIO, CANADA (67%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (70%); AGRICULTURE (56%); OILSEED FARMING (54%); 

PERSON: ANDRIESSEN, FRANS

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



596 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Dodd Holds Lead in Polls In Connecticut

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 17

 BODY:
In the race for United States Senate, Connecticut voters are encountering a cozy, backyard version of a Bill Clinton-Ross Perot face-off: a quintessential public man, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, against an archetypal businessman, Brook Johnson.
Mr. Dodd, the Democrat, is leading by a large margin in polls as he seeks a third term in the Senate, where one of his predecessors was his father, Senator Thomas J. Dodd. But Mr. Johnson -- who followed his father into textile mills, working his way up to executive and finally owner -- is mounting an expensive attack, financed almost entirely by himself, that focuses on the Federal deficit and blames it on Washington insiders like Mr. Dodd. 
 As the campaign begins to expand from television screens, where both men are advertising heavily, onto the streets, Mr. Dodd, the career Connecticut politician, has several advantages over Mr. Johnson, a newcomer to politics who until May was registered to vote in Florida.
 
An Unabashed Politician
 Mr. Dodd, first of all, is an unabashed politician who, in public appearances, manages to convey both how seriously he takes his job and how much he enjoys the work, from his late-night lobbying for a favorite child-care bill to wading into crowds on the campaign trail.
He accepts the open-book nature of public life and uses self-deprecating humor to keep his work in perspective.
"When they run these polls and say 22 percent of the American public has confidence in Congress, what surprises me is not how low that is, it's how high it is," Mr. Dodd said Friday, discussing the corrosive effects of negative political campaigns as he rode to an Enfield mall, where he was speaking at Senior Day.
"Who are these people?" he asked with a laugh. "Have they been living on some planet and just arrived back on earth? Have they been living in a cave?"
 
A Tough Transition
 Mr. Johnson, in contrast, has found the transition from private business to public scrutiny a trial at times. At a news conference in Hartford, for example, he responded to one reporter's question by snapping, "Where did you go to college?"
Last month in Greenwich, where he lives, Mr. Johnson stopped and confronted a teen-age driver who, seeing a "Goodbye Senator Dodd" sticker on the candidate's BMW, honked his horn and made an obscene gesture.
But Mr. Dodd, in addition to making his personal case that politicians have a legitimate role in society, has used his experience in another way: he raised $3 million for the race, and had $1.4 million left to spend going into the last month.
Mr. Johnson, by comparison, had raised $190,000, while lending his campaign nearly $1.6 million of his own. He entered the last month with little cash, facing a decision on how much more to contribute himself.
Mr. Johnson's campaign, like Mr. Perot's, has been mainly an electronic one, as he has tried to make both his name and his views known in a short time. His television ads, which begin with the line, "Hi, I'm Brook Johnson," and feature him talking, have helped produce 85 percent name recognition across the state, according to his polls. But the ads, which have mainly attacked Mr. Dodd, have conveyed little more.
Addressing a group in Farmington this week, Mr. Johnson, who is 46 years old, sketched his life: "I'm from eastern Connecticut. I grew up in the little town of Willimantic. I worked my way through college. When I finished college with an engineering degree, I enlisted in the Army in 1968. I was a private at Fort Dix, N.J. I went to the London School of Economics on the G.I. Bill and then started with a resume at a Fortune 500 company, Collins & Aikman."
 
A Salesman's Skills
 Given his own forum, Mr. Johnson shines as a salesman. His typical stump speech is presented like a boardroom proposal at which listeners who accept one idea are then shown how it leads logically to others.
The Federal deficit, always his focus, is what moved him to enter politics. It was caused, he tells listeners, by both the culture of Washington, where he believes special interests have too much power, and by the fact that members of Congress are always running for re-election, and so always need those groups' contributions.
Imposing term limits on Congress and spending limits on campaigns, he says, would be a first step, though he concedes a spending cap would rule out his own $1.8 million campaign. He also favors cutting the capital-gains tax to stimulate the economy, and eliminating the deficit by putting caps on the rate of growth in Federal spending.
"He sounds like Ross Perot," said Morris Mirizio, a Bristol resident who heard Mr. Johnson speak at St. Joseph's Church in Bristol this week.
But as an unknown with no public record to measure his words against, Mr. Johnson is discovering how fragile his electronically built image may be.
While he has accused Mr. Dodd of standing by while Connecticut lost 190,000 jobs to the recession, he was put on the defensive this week when Mr. Dodd challenged his own record of creating jobs, pointing out in an ad that the Republican's vaunted manufacturing base was all in Canada.
One questioner at St. Joseph's thought the Dodd ad was, in fact, Mr. Johnson's. "You moved a plant to Canada?" he asked.
"No," Mr. Johnson tried to answer.
"Your father moved the plant?" the man pressed.
"No, my father worked at a plant in Willimantic," he responded.
Mr. Johnson, who rose from salesman to group president at Collins & Aikman before buying his own company, finally said he never moved any factories. What he had done, he said, was sell a United States operation and buy an existing Canadian company.
The Dodd ad, he told an audience in Farmington, is "not true." But, he added, "it's not untrue."
"What they do," he said, "is distort the truth."
 
No Apologies
 Mr. Dodd, 48, makes no apologies for his counterattack, as he makes few apologies for his 18 years in Congress: three terms in the House representing eastern Connecticut and two terms in the Senate.
Mr. Dodd also notes that most of his commercials have stressed his own accomplishments, especially in saving a Seawolf submarine contract for the endangered Electric Boat shipyard, enacting a child-care subsidy program, and helping to broaden eligibility for Federal aid for middle-income college students.
Only months ago, hopeful Republicans were hungrily circling Mr. Dodd, saying Connecticut voters were starting to decide that he had not been much help as the state sank into recession. They also hoped that anger over the state's new income tax would wash over the incumbent.
But then Mr. Dodd played a significant role in saving the Seawolf contract. Audiences now listen closely as he warns that the Seawolf will not save Electric Boat, only give it and government time to find some other use for the sub yard and its sophisticated technology.
As he details the efforts he has made to help Connecticut industries become less dependent on military contracts, and handicaps the impending assault on military spending in the next Federal budget, a clear message emerges: this is a Senator who already knows his way around.
Mr. Dodd is also keenly aware of the deep gloom of many Connecticut residents, who have seen their state's quality of life chipped away by recession, layoffs and a sharp drop in housing values.
That feeling, however, may be more likely to hurt the White House than Democratic incumbents like Mr. Dodd. At his appearance in Enfield, one group of shoppers was divided over the Senator, but nearly unanimous in rejecting President Bush. The economy was their chief concern.
"It's scary," said Donna Blanchette of Suffield. "People are living thinking they are going to lose their jobs. There's no security anymore."
So as Mr. Dodd travels the state, emerging crisply at each stop from a Ford Explorer, he displays his experience while delivering a mix of economic realism, pep talk and social idealism. Connecticut has a proud history, he says. These are challenging times. We have to be smart. We have to work together, rich and poor, young and old, city and suburb.
Three debates have been scheduled between Mr. Dodd and Mr. Johnson, the first at 7 P.M. Tuesday, to be broadcast on Connecticut television stations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat campaigning for his third term, at Enfield Square Mall yesterday; Brook Johnson, challenger to Senator Dodd, campaigned at a rally in Hartford yesterday against the state's income tax. (Photographs by Steve Miller for The New York Times) (pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); LOBBYING (73%); FABRIC MILLS (70%); ADOLESCENTS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); CHILD CARE (51%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE; DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); JOHNSON, BROOK CHRISTOPHER DODD (94%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



597 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: False Charges By Woman Culminate In Her Arrest

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

 BODY:
A homeless woman who had accused 13 men of rape, robbery and larceny over the last six years was arrested yesterday and charged with making up the crimes, the transit police said.
One of the accused men received a 90-day jail term, the transit police said. 
 The woman, Deborah Ford, 36 years old, was charged with 21 counts of falsely filing criminal complaints in incidents, including three in the subway, that date back to Sept. 25, 1986, said a transit police spokesman, Albert W. O'Leary. It was the second case of false allegations of subway crimes in two weeks, he said.
The transit police determined that Ms. Ford was lying Friday afternoon after she told an officer, who was standing outside the subway station at Christopher Street in lower Manhattan, that a man had raped her, Mr. O'Leary said. The man was promptly taken into custody.
"But during questioning, it became apparent that something was not right and she admitted that the crime report was in fact bogus," Mr. O'Leary said. "She even admitted that she had made many of these types of claims in the past."
The suspect was released. Ms. Ford was in custody Saturday night pending her arraignment on the charge. Mr. O'Leary said a man arrested Oct. 4 on a complaint from Ms. Ford remained in jail, although the transit police were moving to get him released.
 
Move Towards Release
 "One good thing about our criminal justice system is that as soon as information is received that a person does not belong in jail, we get them out," Mr. O'Leary said. Another man was in jail until yesterday on a robbery charge, when he was released.
In the worst case, one man with a lengthy criminal history received a 90-day jail term after pleading guilty to a bogus robbery charge, Mr. O'Leary said.
"This guy's a career criminal and has become very savvy about what helps him," Mr. O'Leary said. "That may be the reason he agreed to plead guilty. It's unclear."
It was not known yesterday whether the man was still in jail.
In a similar case, the transit police two weeks ago arrested a man for filing false complaints against 26 men who, the police said, accused young men of robbing him when they did not return his sexual advances.
The transit police said 10 young men were wrongly jailed based on the complaints of James Cooley, 25, an unemployed freight handler. Mr. O'Leary said a system of checking past complaints started after the Cooley case and led officers to look into whether Ms. Ford had a history of making complaints.
"Bringing false arrest accusations against someone is a crime," Mr. O'Leary said. "It's got to be; otherwise we'd have people running all over the place pointing out people and having them arrested."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; FALSE ARRESTS, CONVICTIONS AND IMPRISONMENTS ARRESTS (93%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (91%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); ROBBERY (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; FORD, DEBORAH ANN ALBERT W O'LEARY (94%); DEBORAH FORD (91%); JAMES COOLEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



598 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Before Employment;
Frustrated, New York Teen-Agers Look for Their First Jobs

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
On Columbus Day, Dolayna DeArmond wistfully thought of the fun things she might do with a day off from school: going to the movies, shopping, hanging out with her girlfriends in Crown Heights. Instead, the 15-year-old did what she has done for the last two years without much success: looked for a job to help her single mother put food on the table and money in the bank for college.
Ms. DeArmond, a sophomore at Harry Van Arsdale High School, is one of thousands of New York City teen-agers whose hopes of joining the working world are running up against Depression-era employment rates. 
 Although the Los Angeles riots inspired additional Federal aid to cities that translated into 22,000 more summer jobs in New York City -- 52,000 compared to 30,000 last year -- the current employment landscape is as barren as autumnal trees.
Teen-age employment in the city has fallen almost in half over the last two years, according to the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, and youths between 16 and 19 years old here work at one-third the rate of their peers nationwide: about 12 percent have full-time or part-time jobs, compared with 39 percent nationally.
 
Frustration Mounts
 Employment of teen-agers in the city has been decreasing. The rate last year was 16.9 percent; it was 20.5 percent in 1990.
People who work with youth say the overwhelming majority would like at least some work. Many of the frustrated young job seekers are still in school but need part-time work to help support their families. And the issue is even more pressing for those who have graduated or dropped out of high school and try to support themselves.
The dismal employment picture means more violence among young people with time on their hands, dozens of young people and youth workers said in recent interviews; it means fewer teen-agers who develop work mores like dressing appropriately and being punctual; it means children who turn to crime to make money and develop a general feeling of isolation from the mainstream world.
"These young people being idle out here is manifested in the youth violence," said Richard Green, head of the Crown Heights Youth Collective, which offers a range of services to youth in that Brooklyn neighborhood. "You know the story ---- if he's out there on the corner and can't get a j-o-b, someone says 'come spot me for $50 a day' and they do," he said, referring to young people who work as lookouts for drug dealers.
"I had a young man come in today -- new car, more gold in his mouth than any six of us on our fingers," Mr. Green said. "He said he wants to get out of it," meaning the drug trade. " 'I want one of them j-bobscq, slang for job,' he said. The path they're on right now is not the path they want to be on."
The lack of job prospects fuels a palpable anger and bitterness among teen-agers in struggling, minority neighborhoods like East Harlem, Bedford-Stuyvesant and the South Bronx. In interviews, many said they felt disconnected from the traditional societal paths to success: school and work. They also said they felt they were blamed for their failures even though they received little guidance. And many believe they are victims of racism.
Last year, only 10.6 percent of black and 14.6 percent of Hispanic New Yorkers between the ages of 16 and 19 had jobs. Almost 19.7 percent of white youths did.
 
'An Education for Nothing'
 "We go to school and get an education for nothing, for nothing," said Wilhemenia Johnson, 16, a 10tenth grader who lives in East Harlem. "They don't want us to be educated, they don't want us to compete with them for jobs," she said, referring to white people.
James Bellamy Jr., 19, a history major at City College who said he has been looking for work at messenger services and fast-food franchises, said, "You have to talk proper and be proper to find a job, but I want to be who I am."
Mr. Bellamy, 19, said he must change his mode of dress and the way he carries himself when he approaches potential white employers, who, he said, view most young black men as threatening.
"It's almost as if they want me to be white," Mr. Bellamy said. "Maybe a person can't carry themselves in a proper way, but it doesn't mean they don't have the skills."
Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional commissioner for the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, said low employment rates in the teen-age years were correlated with low employment rates later in life. He said New York had historically offered its teen-agers fewer chances at jobs than other big cities like Chicago and Washington, even during relative prosperity.
"They need jobs more than anybody else," Mr. Ehrenhalt said. "There are many youngsters in the city who don't see school as relating to their lives, which affects the school retention rate. Many are in families where they don't see anybody working or it's not a job that has anything to do with school experience."
 
Competition for Beginners
 The structural reasons for low teenage employment in New York have been well-documented. The economic downturn engulfing the nation hit the Northeast earlier and harder, drying up retail and entry-level computer and telecommunications jobs, in addition to the loss of 65 percent of manufacturing jobs since 1966.
New York has more immigrants -- legal and illegal -- willing to work in low-paying jobs. More jobs have moved to suburban communities and away from the inner-city youth who need them. And teen-agers here must also compete with a large arts community that relies on part-time employment to get them through the dry spells between employment.
"A lot of people are looking for work," said Ms. DeArmond, whose only job experience has been working with her mother, a building superintendent, and a two-week stint at a day-care center in Minnesota. She has concentrated her search in Crown Heights, relying on word-of-mouth, classified advertising and signs in windows.
"The places I go, they said they'd get back to me or sometimes they'd say the job was filled. It's hard, pretty much. People need to give you a chance."
Despite lingering stereotypes that poor, minority youngsters do not wish to work or that their money goes to gold jewelry and designer clothes, people who work with them said the reality was grimmer. Many of the youngsters are indeed naive about how to look for work -- some come from families where no one has ever had a job -- but they desire employment and in some cases turn down offers to join the drug economy, youth workers say.
Some are high school dropouts who are the sole support for families that may include their own children, and they have few prospects beyond entry-level jobs.
 
'Real Survival Money'
 "You take the high drop-out rate and combine it with unemployment and the situation is disastrous," said Josephine Nieves, Commissioner of the New York City Department of Employment. "We are not in any way taking responsibility for our youth. They are being lost."
The Commissioner said her office was working on a youth-employment plan that would include partnerships between labor unions, city schools, the private sector and various industries. She said she could not give a cost for the program, because it involved making better use of resources rather than an infusion of new money.
People like Geoffrey Canada, the executive director of the Rheedlen Foundation, which serves 500 children in Manhattan each day in education, recreation and social- services programs, said the cost of doing nothing would be much higher.
"Part of the solution is we have to give young people jobs at 14 or 15," he said. "It's not that expensive, especially when you see the other costs society end up paying in juvenile courts and probation officers. This is real survival money for these kids ---- it's frightening. You begin to see a certain hunger in these children's eyes over the years. "
Mr. Canada said that a significant number of poor young people lagged in employable skills, a problem worsened by their lack of social skills. They may dress inappropriately for a business environment and fail to make eye contact during an interview, he said. Because so many have fragile self-esteem, he said, they may perceive curt directives from a boss as a challenge to their dignity or evidence of racism.
Indeed, a survey last year of 300 businesses in the city by Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm, found that 37 percent of the employers said that the performance of entry-level employee in New York, of all ages, was worse than elsewhere.
 
'Any Job Is a Good Job'
 Bobyecq List, the executive director of the New York City Partnership, a business group that sponsors the city's largest program to match teenagers with summer jobs, said that in other cities, the business community and the schools work together more closely.
There are exceptions, of course. Companies like New York Telephone, Con Edison and Brookyn Union Gas have successfully hired large numbers of teenagers in entry-level jobs. About 30 percent of the Partnership's summer jobs continue as part-time jobs the rest of the year. The Philip Morris Company has underwritten 100 young people in jobs in nonprofit organizations.
"Three or four years ago you had young people with unrealistic expectations, but not anymore," Mrs. List said. "In this economy, any job is a good job. What happens is that a number of young people never get in the mainstream of referral to get connected. A number of young people have never been out of their borough. A number have never been out of their little neighborhood."
Still, away from the office towers and the community centers where their lives are being discussed, young people said that they felt that city and national leaders have abandoned them or they would have long ago instituted the kind of job programs that Ms. Nieves envisions.
"Me and my friends drive around to Wall Street and we go into places where there are signs up saying 'Help Wanted' and we go in and they say 'It's already been filled," said Kevin Frye, who is 15 and lives in Harlem. "They ask, 'Why do you want to work?' I tell them there isn't anything else to do in the streets except get in trouble."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We go to school and get an education for nothing," said Wilhemenia Johnson. She listened to a job counselor Friday at a school in Harlem. Last year, only 10.6 percent of black New Yorkers between the ages of 16 and 19 had jobs; As she has done for the last two years with no success, Dolayna DeArmond filled out job forms Friday at the Crown Heights Youth Collective in Brooklyn.(Photographs by Ed Quinn for The New York Times) (pg. 45); Robert Carter, a counselor at the Crown Heights Youth Collective, watched Judieann Spencer, left, and Tricia Young as they filled out information forms Friday. The teen-agers are interested in part-time jobs. (pg. 52)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; TEENAGERS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); RIOTS (69%); STATISTICS (69%); VIOLENT CRIME (67%); INTERVIEWS (61%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (56%); 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R JAMES BELLAMY JR (64%); SAMUEL M EHRENHALT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



599 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 51; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Clashes as D'Amato And Abrams Debate Issues

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
In the second debate of their Senate campaign, State Attorney General Robert Abrams and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato collided forcefully last night, stressing their sharp differences on nearly a dozen issues from abortion to the economy, health care, education and the tone and tactics of their own campaigns.
Locked in a tight race, both candidates made strong appeals to the political middle ground, each painting the other as an extremist out of step with the concerns of New Yorkers, and each striving repeatedly to wrap himself in the mantle of Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, who holds a big lead over President Bush in the state, according to all the polls. 
 In the hourlong debate, broadcast from the studios of WRGB-TV in Schenectady and carried live around the state on C-Span, Mr. D'Amato, the two-term Republican incumbent, mentioned the President only in the final moments, and only to remind listeners that he had criticized Mr. Bush's economic policies and advisers "before it became popular."
In an especially pointed dig, Mr. D'Amato noted that Mr. Abrams -- during his own Democratic primary campaign -- had criticized as inadequate the plans for cutting military spending and creating a national health insurance system that Mr. Clinton supports. "Bob Abrams is way outside the mainstream of the Democratic Party," he said.
 
Clinton Statement Cited
 For his part, Mr. Abrams said over and over, "I'm proud to be on the same ticket with Bill Clinton and Al Gore." And he sought to link Mr. D'Amato to the 12 years of Republican economic policies in Washington that he said had cost New York jobs and billions of dollars in vital aid. He read from a statement that Mr. Clinton issued yesterday, condemning Mr. D'Amato's attempts "to link himself to me or my campaign."
Responding to the first question, about jobs and taxes, Mr. D'Amato wasted no time in bringing up Mr. Abrams's description of him last weekend as a "fascist" -- a comment for which Mr. Abrams later apologized. Several times during the debate, he responded to criticism from Mr. Abrams by saying "Well, there goes Bob Abrams again."
But most of the time was spent in a sober discussion of the issues, in which Mr. Abrams, typically earnest, and Mr. D'Amato, unusually low-key and almost mournful at times, made it clear just how much they differ on topics from the death penalty (Mr. Abrams opposes it in all cases) to tuition tax credits for private schools (Mr. D'Amato said it would prompt competition and improve education, while Mr. Abrams said it would "destroy one of the bulwarks" of the nation, its public schools).
Though the candidates differed markedly, they often looked startlingly alike as the camera shifted between the two, balding and bespectacled, in dark suits and red ties, standing behind lecterns as they answered questions posed by Alan Chartock, a public radio commentator.
 
Softer Tone on Gay Rights
 On some of the sharper-edged issues, Mr. D'Amato took a distinctly conciliatory tone. For example, in answering a question about gay rights and how to stem violence and discrimination against homosexuals, Mr. Abrams stressed his own longtime support for extending civil rights laws to gay people. Mr. D'Amato said the Federal Government needed to "do more" to protect people whatever their "predilections," but without specifying how.
Throughout the debate, Mr. Abrams repeatedly sought, as he has since the morning after his primary victory on Sept. 15, to portray the election in terms of sharp policy differences between himself and Mr. D'Amato. "This campaign is very stark in terms of the choices," he said, "on choice, on the economy, on health care, on the environment."
At another point, he suggested that Senator D'Amato was stuck in the past with a cold-war view of military spending while his own vision would provide for a major conversion of military industries to other purposes.
But Senator D'Amato appeared less inclined to paint such clear differences on some other issues: in fact, he continued a theme he established last week. On several issues, he contended his views were closer to Mr. Clinton's than were Mr. Abrams's.
 
Death-Penalty Debate
 He noted that he and Mr. Clinton favor the death penalty for certain drug dealers, while Mr. Abrams opposes it under any circumstances.
On abortion, the two men offered clear differences. "I'm pro-life," Senator D'Amato said. "Everybody knows that. It's a matter of conscience."
But he sought to soften the differences between himself and abortion-rights advocates. For instance, he said he now believed in allowing abortion in cases of rape or incest -- contrary to stands he took in the past -- and said he had opposed the gag rule that prevents clinics that offered counseling on abortion from receiving Federal funds.
And he said that he believed that most people would would agree with his position in favor of parental consent laws that require minors to get their parents' permission before an abortion.
 
Favorings Choice, No Buts
 Mr. Abrams, though, was unequivocal, saying that abortion was a choice that should be made "by a woman and a woman alone."
"Senator D'Amato is the candidate of the extremist Right to Life Party" Mr. Abrams said. "This is a clear difference between the two of us."
Asked about the mud-slinging that has marked the campaign in recent weeks -- some national political consultants have described the race as the nastiest Senate contest in the nation -- each candidate seemed to denounce negative campaigning while simultaneously getting in a few licks at his rival.
Mr. Abrams repeated his apology for calling Mr. D'Amato a fascist, and called it "an unfortunate expression," but also added that he had hoped that his apology would cause his opponent to pull his "distorted commercials," and focus on issues like abortion and the economy. "I resent the kind of character assassination that has taken place," he said.
 
A List of Allegations
 And then Mr. Abrams rattled off a list of allegations against the Senator: the Senate Ethics Committee report saying he had run his office in an inappropriate manner that allowed his brother, Armand, to use it to lobby for a military contractor, and a new investigation into charges that Mr. D'Amato had coached a witness in a grand jury proceeding. "These are serious issues that I think have to be evaluated by the people of this state."
Mr. D'Amato responded that his opponent was "wallowing in the mud, wallowing in the gutter."
And in his closing statement, Senator D'Amato once more asserted that his opponent was running a vicious campaign against him and had done "the same thing to Geraldine," referring to Geraldine A. Ferraro, a candidate in the Democratic Senate primary. He also clearly sought, again, to disassociate himself from the Republican Administration in Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General Robert Abrams reading a letter from Gov. Bill Clinton to Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato during last night's debate. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); TAX LAW (61%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN) BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992



600 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
Democrats' Hopes Rise, Republicans' Grow Heavy

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
Three-fourths of the way through the debates that were supposed to begin President Bush's final rally, Democrats can barely contain their euphoria. And Republicans, ever more anxious, remain clinging to the hope of a major break in the final two weeks, and the hope that their President can seize it.
Gov. Bill Clinton has begun warning against complacency, the ritualistic closing appeal of a front-runner. But his travel schedule indicates the extent of his campaign's aspirations these days. Among the states the Democratic nominee is expected to visit after the next debate on Monday night are historically Republican strongholds like Nevada and Wyoming, which his aides present as part of a game plan to keep the Republicans pinned down and on the defensive to the very end.
 
Favorable Signs
 "These are states that we think we have a legitimate shot of winning," said David Wilhelm, manager for the Clinton campaign. "At this point in the campaign you're not trying to fake somebody out." 
 The electoral map, in fact, looks remarkably favorable to the Democrats in this final stage of the campaign, with Mr. Clinton dominating California and the Northeast, holding clear leads across most of the industrial Midwest and being in a competitive position across much of the South, a variety of polls have indicated.
"Look at the map, and you see that Republicans are scratching and clawing to stay even in those states where they should be up by 10 or 20 points," said Stuart Rothenberg, a Washington analyst who publishes a political newsletter. "This is a national trend. It's showing up in New Hampshire and California and Ohio."
 
Polls Add to Fears
 Bush campaign officials contend that the Democrats are overreaching, that two weeks is still sufficient time to close this race and that their attacks on Mr. Clinton's trustworthiness are beginning to pay off. Charles Black, a senior adviser to the Bush campaign, asserts that the campaign's own polling shows Mr. Clinton's negative ratings are rising and that the race is tightening.
Mary Matalin, deputy manager of the Bush campaign, asserted that Mr. Bush was also gaining ground in individual states and added: "The Clintonistas are a little full of themselves right now. It ain't over till it's over."
Still, a national Newsweek poll released today, conducted after the second Presidential debate on Thursday night, showed Mr. Clinton retaining the lead with the support of 46 percent, Mr. Bush with 31 percent, and independent candidate Ross Perot at 14 percent. The margin of error for the poll was four percentage points. All that makes Republicans' hopes and fears for Monday night's final debate all the more acute.
An Administration official, who would speak only if not named, said on Friday that the campaign continued to believe that the trust issue was Mr. Clinton's fatal flaw. "The only thing we can do and will do for the next 18 days is continue to say here's what you need to know about this guy, here's what you need to know about his policies, and do you really want him to lead you for the next four years," the official said.
But many Republicans closed out this week in a grim mood. They had hoped for a turning point in the first two Presidential debates, but so far the polls do not reflect one. "Right now I'd say the race is basically a flat line on the screen," said Linda DiVall, a Republican poll taker, who hastened to add that there was still time to turn it around.
 
Gloom and Jitters
 Adding to the gloominess of some Republicans is the view, widely held by pundits and political professionals, that the President was not meeting the needs of the moment in the debates, occasionally seemed off his game and was not behaving with the aggressiveness his supporters yearned for. His aides assert that the format of the Thursday night debate, which began with voters urging the candidates to stick to the issues, simply did not lend itself to drawing a stark contrast with Mr. Clinton.
Underscoring the stakes of these final days, Ms. Matalin today assailed the unnamed people complaining to newspaper reporters that the President did not seem committed to be running flat out. "The people who are anonymously appearing in these stories are the lowest form of life," Ms. Matalin said. "He has never, never in my presence shown any signs of backing down or resignation. He remains confident and serene."
But the anxiety is high among Republicans who are focused on races below the Presidential level and includes the fear that Mr. Bush will be written off in the final days of the campaign. "If there is a sense out there on or around Nov. 3 that George Bush can't win, I really worry about what can happen to us on turnout," said Eddie Mahe, a veteran Republican political consultant. "We all lived through '74. Republicans didn't vote in '74. Republicans don't switch, they stay home."
The Democrats are an emotional mirror image of the Republicans this weekend, reveling in the polls in delight that the debates seem to have left Mr. Clinton's status as the front-runner intact, but almost superstitiously fearing to look ahead two weeks. "It certainly looks very good right now," said Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "But anyone who knows Bill Clinton, knows he does not have a complacent bone in his body."
 
Confidence and Caution
 Phil Angelides, the chairman of the California Democratic Party, said, "We're ahead, but having lost so many times, with 18 days to go, what's the sense of imbuing ourselves with temporary euphoria and risk another dismal four years?"
Still, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House majority leader, was one of several Democrats who voiced the belief that Mr. Clinton may have begun to "close the sale" with the voters this week. "I think he really broke through with a lot of people who were leaning in his direction but weren't quite there yet."
Mr. Clinton himself, who is expected in these final days to try to elevate his message and present a Democratic vote as a mandate for a set of economic policies, warned today that talk of a landslide is premature. "There is no need for overconfidence," he said as he left Little Rock today. "This is not a race just to beat my opponent. This is a race to shape the future of the country. It's not about landslides. It's about what's going to happen to the American people."
Adding to the remaining uncertainty is Ross Perot, the independent candidate who enjoyed a bump in public esteem after his performance in the debates this week. Some Republican strategists say that if Mr. Perot's supporters defect in the final days, as many supporters of third party candidates often do, it could be a boost for Mr. Bush.
Republicans also comfort themselves with the notion this has been an unpredictable year and this Presidential campaign has transformed itself very quickly before.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with supporters on Friday at a rally in Edison, N.J. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. 24)
 
Map: "The Electoral Map," shows electoral votes for each state and indicates which states favor Clinton, which are for Bush and those up for grabs. (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WYOMING; NEVADA; CALIFORNIA; NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); MIDWESTERN STATES (US); SOUTHERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TRENDS (74%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992

 
