

601 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: To Match Profit With Popularity, Skype Looks to New Markets

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Skype has become one of the Internet's most popular services -- so much so that it is even used as a verb to describe a phone call over the Internet, as in ''Skype me.''
The seven-year-old company, however, is still a work in progress on the financial front. It was sold to eBay, then taken private and now aims to complete the round trip with an initial public offering.
Under its new chief executive, Tony Bates, Skype is seeking new ways to make money from its 124 million users, most of whom do not pay a cent. In particular, Mr. Bates is looking at possible new markets like corporate phone systems and mobile devices, both highly competitive.
Skype, based in Luxembourg, recorded $406 million in revenue in the first six months of the year, up 25 percent from the period a year earlier, according to the company's recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Net income was down 42 percent, to $13 million. 
The increased revenue is coming from users making more paid calls. But that success is modest given Skype's widespread adoption by consumers. Only 6.5 percent of Skype's users pay to make calls from their computers to landline and mobile phones. The vast majority call only fellow Skype users, which is free.
Those free users have some value, said Charles Golvin, an analyst for Forrester Research. But converting them to paying customers has proved difficult, which, he said, will weigh on any public offering.
''I find it hard to understand why an investor would feel enthusiastic about owning that stock when the prospects for revenue growth are dim,'' he said. ''They may be growing revenue, but it's not like its growing to billions of dollars.''
Mr. Bates, who is originally from England, came to Skype in October from Cisco Systems, where he led its enterprise, commercial and small business division. In his first interview as chief executive, he described himself as a fan of Skype's complex infrastructure, which handled 25 million users simultaneously last month, the most in its history.
The service came to his rescue, he said, while at a lodge in Alaska. Rather than waiting in line to use the lodge's only phone, he took out his cellphone, connected to the lodge's Wi-Fi and used the Skype app to check his messages.
''Universal, and useful and wonderful -- they're the things that Skype can do,'' Mr. Bates said. ''They're not easy to do on a global scale.''
Because Skype filed its initial offering document in August, Mr. Bates is limited in what he can say about future products and the company's financial performance under rules governing company quiet periods. But he said that Skype could offer more premium phone and video services. He also spoke of the possibility of Skype embedding its service with other Web companies to accelerate growth.
In October, Skype introduced a feature that allows users to get their Facebook news feed directly in their computer monitor's Skype window and to call Facebook friends who are Skype users.
Cellphone users complain that Skype has been slow to release new products. For instance, Skype has yet to make video chat available on mobile phones, except on a single Nokia handset. The company says it is working on video products. Skype also waited until October to introduce its Android app, long after Android had become one of the top smartphone operating systems.
The company does have to deal with its legacy. Skype was founded in 2003 by Niklas Zennstrom, a Swede, and Janus Friis, a Dane, as an online alternative to the traditional telephone companies and their expensive rates. Users quickly embraced the service, positioning Skype as a major communications company of the digital age.
EBay acquired Skype for $2.5 billion five years ago. It hoped to use the service so buyers and sellers in eBay's marketplace could talk to each other. However, the combination, which was supposed to increase sales, failed because eBay users preferred to communicate as they had always done -- by e-mail. EBay sold about 70 percent of Skype last year to an investor group led by Silver Lake Partners for $1.9 billion.
Skype has said that it hoped to raise $100 million in the public offering, although the amount is expected to change.
Free service is synonymous with Skype, but only to consumers. Mr. Bates said he believed corporations would pay for an Internet service that cut their phone costs while also giving them an easy way to conduct video conferences, to use instant messaging and to communicate with customers.
''The world previously looked very much like there was a business world and a consumer world,'' Mr. Bates said. ''They're blurring very quickly.''
To entice companies, Skype has partnered with Avaya, a major seller of corporate phone systems, to get its bundle of products to businesses that use Internet-based systems. Skype's video and instant messaging is to be added to the bundle next year. About 38 percent of corporate phone lines are enabled for Internet calls, according to Frost & Sullivan, a market research firm.
But persuading managers in charge of corporate phone systems to use Skype is difficult, said Melanie Turek, an analyst with Frost & Sullivan. Entrusting a newcomer like Skype with something as important as a company's phone service is considered risky. ''Most organizations are going to say, 'Yeah, I'll believe it when I see it,' and 'I'm not really going to look at Skype very hard,' '' Ms. Turek said.
Mr. Bates also wants to put Skype on mobile devices, but mobile carriers are wary of Skype's plans. Skype could undermine wireless businesses by enabling consumers to circumvent the carrier's network and make free or cheap calls using Wi-Fi or their wireless networks. ''They have this love-hate relationship,'' Arlo Gilbert, chief executive of iCall, a Skype competitor based in Greenwich, Conn., said of the wireless companies. ''They think the old way was great.''
Last year, AT&T refused to allow iPhone users to make Skype calls over AT&T's 3G wireless network. AT&T eventually relented after intense criticism by consumer groups. Mr. Bates points to Skype's partnership with Verizon Wireless as an example of how Skype and carriers can get along. Verizon offers more than two dozen phones that are compatible with Skype, about half them sold with Skype's mobile app already on the phone.
Calling fellow Skype users with the mobile app is free. Users who make domestic calls to non-Skype users are charged against their Verizon plan's minutes. International calls are billed at Skype's usual international rates.
Under the agreement, Verizon routes all Skype calls over its network while blocking calls over Wi-Fi, except for calls made from abroad. Verizon said the decision was based on ensuring good sound quality, not to maximize profits.
''We could have continued to compete,'' said Jennifer Byrne, executive director for business development at Verizon. ''We are both in the voice business, but there are also ways we could work together.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Skype's new chief, Tony Bates, is seeking new ways to make money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Skype, based in Luxembourg, has a large office in Palo Alto, Calif. The company is pursuing an initial public offering. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY AVELAR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) CHART: Few Paying Skype Users: Although the number of Skype users continues to increase, only a small proportion of them pay for the service. (Source: Skype) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%)

COMPANY: SKYPE SARL (92%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



602 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: My Magi: Crab, Crocodile and Sea Horse

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD. 
Thomas L. Friedman is off today.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Last Christmas I got a jolt.
I learned that my brother Kevin collects creches. They were all over his house, crammed onto every mantle, table, counter, lawn and closet -- 17 in all, including the modest plastic stable our mom put over the fireplace when we were little.
I was perturbed. I knew Kevin, a salesman, was a fanatical guardian of the word Christmas, as opposed to the pagan, generic ''holiday,'' but I had no idea that he had such a monomaniacal hobby. 
Maybe I was scarred by reading ''The Glass Menagerie'' as a teenager. But books and records aside, collections always struck me as vaguely creepy. I had shuddered for years as my sister accumulated clowns and Don Quixote objets. And the porcelain baby collection of an older cousin actually made me feel queasy.
I wondered why Kevin was so obsessive about creches. Was it a way to stay close to our late mother? An homage to our old church, Nativity?
As a child, he treated St. Joseph, the shepherds and three kings as action figures, staging smack downs.
''The shepherd had an advantage because he was holding the lamb, and he could use it as a weapon,'' Kevin recalled fondly.
I also remembered that he got very upset one year when St. Joseph was stolen from the outdoor Nativity scene at Nativity, and he fretted over why Christ's stepfather disappeared from the New Testament so abruptly.
Could that make him hoard a houseful of St. Josephs -- and send his three sons to a college named St. Joseph's?
I was curious enough about the manger mania that when he told me he'd been invited to the Friends of the Creche annual convention in New Haven one weekend in November, I asked if I could go, too.
Touring the creche display at the Knights of Columbus hall, we met collectors who had 300, 500, even 600 creches, the kind who might put an addition on the house just to display their stables.
Kevin began to feel inadequate with a mere 15. (He gave two to his oldest son.)
Bonnie Psanenstiel, a heavyset 52-year-old nurse from Owensboro, Ky., told me that she has more than 500 sets packed into her ''Nativity meditation room,'' even though ''I'm not really into religion.''
She got her first, which was hand-carved out of olive wood, on a high-school trip to Morocco and spent four years baby-sitting and cleaning houses to pay it off.
She's most attached to the set given to her by a woman she helped when she was a rape-incest counseling volunteer. ''We used to sit by the Mississippi River and just talk,'' Bonnie said as she started to cry. ''She would slowly gather up some of this Delta clay, and she made me a set.''
She believes Nativities represent ''renewal.''
Father Tim Goldrick, the gregarious pastor of St. Nicholas Church in Fall River, Mass., said his grandfather told him it was a Portuguese-Azorian tradition that the man of the house set up the creche. He begged to put up their Woolworth's set.
For years, the priest kept hundreds of creches in milk crates in his guest room, which precluded actual guests.
''There was no room in the inn,'' he said wryly.
When he transferred from his last parish, he called a mover and explained that he owned no furniture but did have a lot of Christmas decorations. ''It took three men two days to box them up and ship them,'' he said.
Mike Whalen, 61, of Clinton Township, Mich., the president of the creche society and proud owner of 400, said he doesn't know of creche fixations causing any marital battles. ''There's a lady from California whose husband is Jewish, and he's very involved,'' Mike said. ''He came up with an Excel system to organize things.''
Rita Bocher of Wynnewood, Pa., does the society's newsletter. In the '80s, doing market research for the Franklin Mint, she had to research creches. ''I thought nobody collects Nativities,'' she said. ''Turned out, I was totally wrong.'' Now she has 700 subscribers around the world.
She saw her favorite in a German museum. It was a prequel, showing the Magi getting ready to go on their trip, ordering around servants, gathering gold, frankincense and myrrh.
Father Tim explained to Kevin that Joseph might have disappeared so abruptly all those years ago because of the belief that if you bury a St. Joseph statue in the yard, you can sell your house quicker. (A tradition that has revived with the recession, according to The Wall Street Journal.)
I couldn't fight the fanatics, so I joined them. I bought a Cape Cod creche at the convention made by Nathaniel Wordell of South Chatham, Mass. Mary's a mermaid. The baby Jesus is covered with a striped beach towel. The Wise Men are crab, crocodile and sea horse. The ''livestock'' are frog, turtle and starfish. Joseph has a trident.
Sadly, it did not draw my brother and me closer. ''That is sacrilegious,'' Kevin said, staring in horror. ''The Virgin Mary does not have a tail.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (75%); BABY PRODUCTS (73%); RELIGION (72%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

COMPANY: GLASS MENAGERIE (57%); KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (57%); NAICS813410 CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); SIC8641 CIVIC, SOCIAL, & FRATERNAL ASSOCIATIONS (53%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OWENSBORO, KY, USA (66%) KENTUCKY, USA (76%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (50%) UNITED STATES (76%); MOROCCO (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



603 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEMPERATURE RISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3750 words

HEADLINE: A Scientist, His Work and a Climate Reckoning

BYLINE: By JUSTIN GILLIS

 BODY:
MAUNA LOA OBSERVATORY, Hawaii -- Two gray machines sit inside a pair of utilitarian buildings here, sniffing the fresh breezes that blow across thousands of miles of ocean.
They make no noise. But once an hour, they spit out a number, and for decades, it has been rising relentlessly.
The first machine of this type was installed on Mauna Loa in the 1950s at the behest of Charles David Keeling, a scientist from San Diego. His resulting discovery, of the increasing level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, transformed the scientific understanding of humanity's relationship with the earth. A graph of his findings is inscribed on a wall in Washington as one of the great achievements of modern science.
Yet, five years after Dr. Keeling's death, his discovery is a focus not of celebration but of conflict. It has become the touchstone of a worldwide political debate over global warming. 
When Dr. Keeling, as a young researcher, became the first person in the world to develop an accurate technique for measuring carbon dioxide in the air, the amount he discovered was 310 parts per million. That means every million pints of air, for example, contained 310 pints of carbon dioxide.
By 2005, the year he died, the number had risen to 380 parts per million. Sometime in the next few years it is expected to pass 400. Without stronger action to limit emissions, the number could pass 560 before the end of the century, double what it was before the Industrial Revolution.
The greatest question in climate science is: What will that do to the temperature of the earth?
Scientists have long known that carbon dioxide traps heat at the surface of the planet. They cite growing evidence that the inexorable rise of the gas is altering the climate in ways that threaten human welfare.
Fossil fuel emissions, they say, are like a runaway train, hurtling the world's citizens toward a stone wall -- a carbon dioxide level that, over time, will cause profound changes.
The risks include melting ice sheets, rising seas, more droughts and heat waves, more flash floods, worse storms, extinction of many plants and animals, depletion of sea life and -- perhaps most important -- difficulty in producing an adequate supply of food. Many of these changes are taking place at a modest level already, the scientists say, but are expected to intensify.
Reacting to such warnings, President George Bush committed the United States in 1992 to limiting its emissions of greenhouse gases, especially carbon dioxide. Scores of other nations made the same pledge, in a treaty that was long on promises and short on specifics.
But in 1998, when it came time to commit to details in a document known as the Kyoto Protocol, Congress balked. Many countries did ratify the protocol, but it had only a limited effect, and the past decade has seen little additional progress in controlling emissions.
Many countries are reluctant to commit themselves to tough emission limits, fearing that doing so will hurt economic growth. International climate talks in Cancun, Mexico, this month ended with only modest progress. The Obama administration, which came into office pledging to limit emissions in the United States, scaled back its ambitions after climate and energy legislation died in the Senate this year.
Challengers have mounted a vigorous assault on the science of climate change. Polls indicate that the public has grown more doubtful about that science. Some of the Republicans who will take control of the House of Representatives in January have promised to subject climate researchers to a season of new scrutiny.
One of them is Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California. In a recent Congressional hearing on global warming, he said, ''The CO2 levels in the atmosphere are rather undramatic.''
But most scientists trained in the physics of the atmosphere have a different reaction to the increase.
''I find it shocking,'' said Pieter P. Tans, who runs the government monitoring program of which the Mauna Loa Observatory is a part. ''We really are in a predicament here, and it's getting worse every year.''
As the political debate drags on, the mute gray boxes atop Mauna Loa keep spitting out their numbers, providing a reality check: not only is the carbon dioxide level rising relentlessly, but the pace of that rise is accelerating over time.
''Nature doesn't care how hard we tried,'' Jeffrey D. Sachs, the Columbia University economist, said at a recent seminar. ''Nature cares how high the parts per million mount. This is running away.''
A Passion for Precision
Perhaps the biggest reason the world learned of the risk of global warming was the unusual personality of a single American scientist.
Charles David Keeling's son Ralph remembers that when he was a child, his family bought a new home in Del Mar, Calif., north of San Diego. His father assigned him the task of edging the lawn. Dr. Keeling insisted that Ralph copy the habits of the previous owner, an Englishman who had taken pride in his garden, cutting a precise two-inch strip between the sidewalk and the grass.
''It took a lot of work to maintain this attractive gap,'' Ralph Keeling recalled, but he said his father believed ''that was just the right way to do it, and if you didn't do that, you were cutting corners. It was a moral breach.''
Dr. Keeling was a punctilious man. It was by no means his defining trait -- relatives and colleagues described a man who played a brilliant piano, loved hiking mountains and might settle a friendly argument at dinner by pulling an etymological dictionary off the shelf.
But the essence of his scientific legacy was his passion for doing things in a meticulous way. It explains why, even as challengers try to pick apart every other aspect of climate science, his half-century record of carbon dioxide measurements stands unchallenged.
By the 1950s, when Dr. Keeling was completing his scientific training, scientists had been observing the increasing use of fossil fuels and wondering whether carbon dioxide in the air was rising as a result. But nobody had been able to take accurate measurements of the gas.
As a young researcher, Dr. Keeling built instruments and developed techniques that allowed him to achieve great precision in making such measurements. Then he spent the rest of his life applying his approach.
In his earliest measurements of the air, taken in California and other parts of the West in the mid-1950s, he found that the background level for carbon dioxide was about 310 parts per million.
That discovery drew attention in Washington, and Dr. Keeling soon found himself enjoying government backing for his research. He joined the staff of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, in the La Jolla section of San Diego, under the guidance of an esteemed scientist named Roger Revelle, and began laying plans to measure carbon dioxide around the world.
Some of the most important data came from an analyzer he placed in a government geophysical observatory that had been set up a few years earlier in a remote location: near the top of Mauna Loa, one of the volcanoes that loom over the Big Island of Hawaii.
He quickly made profound discoveries. One was that carbon dioxide oscillated slightly according to the seasons. Dr. Keeling realized the reason: most of the world's land is in the Northern Hemisphere, and plants there were taking up carbon dioxide as they sprouted leaves and grew over the summer, then shedding it as the leaves died and decayed in the winter.
He had discovered that the earth itself was breathing.
A more ominous finding was that each year, the peak level was a little higher than the year before. Carbon dioxide was indeed rising, and quickly. That finding electrified the small community of scientists who understood its implications. Later chemical tests, by Dr. Keeling and others, proved that the increase was due to the combustion of fossil fuels.
The graph showing rising carbon dioxide levels came to be known as the Keeling Curve. Many Americans have never heard of it, but to climatologists, it is the most recognizable emblem of their science, engraved in bronze on a building at Mauna Loa and carved into a wall at the National Academy of Sciences in Washington.
By the late 1960s, a decade after Dr. Keeling began his measurements, the trend of rising carbon dioxide was undeniable, and scientists began to warn of the potential for a big increase in the temperature of the earth.
Dr. Keeling's mentor, Dr. Revelle, moved to Harvard, where he lectured about the problem. Among the students in the 1960s who first saw the Keeling Curve displayed in Dr. Revelle's classroom was a senator's son from Tennessee named Albert Arnold Gore Jr., who marveled at what it could mean for the future of the planet.
Throughout much of his career, Dr. Keeling was cautious about interpreting his own measurements. He left that to other people while he concentrated on creating a record that would withstand scrutiny.
John Chin, a retired technician in Hawaii who worked closely with Dr. Keeling, recently described the painstaking steps he took, at Dr. Keeling's behest, to ensure accuracy. Many hours were required every week just to be certain that the instruments atop Mauna Loa had not drifted out of kilter.
The golden rule was ''no hanky-panky,'' Mr. Chin recalled in an interview in Hilo, Hawaii. Dr. Keeling and his aides scrutinized the records closely, and if workers in Hawaii fell down on the job, Mr. Chin said, they were likely to get a call or letter: ''What did you do? What happened that day?''
In later years, as the scientific evidence about climate change grew, Dr. Keeling's interpretations became bolder, and he began to issue warnings. In an essay in 1998, he replied to claims that global warming was a myth, declaring that the real myth was that ''natural resources and the ability of the earth's habitable regions to absorb the impacts of human activities are limitless.''
Still, by the time he died, global warming had not become a major political issue. That changed in 2006, when Mr. Gore's movie and book, both titled ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' brought the issue to wider public attention. The Keeling Curve was featured in both.
In 2007, a body appointed by the United Nations declared that the scientific evidence that the earth was warming had become unequivocal, and it added that humans were almost certainly the main cause. Mr. Gore and the panel jointly won the Nobel Peace Prize.
But as action began to seem more likely, the political debate intensified, with fossil-fuel industries mobilizing to fight emission-curbing measures. Climate-change contrarians increased their attack on the science, taking advantage of the Internet to distribute their views outside the usual scientific channels.
In an interview in La Jolla, Dr. Keeling's widow, Louise, said that if her husband had lived to see the hardening of the political battle lines over climate change, he would have been dismayed.
''He was a registered Republican,'' she said. ''He just didn't think of it as a political issue at all.''
The Numbers
Not long ago, standing on a black volcanic plain two miles above the Pacific Ocean, the director of the Mauna Loa Observatory, John E. Barnes, pointed toward a high metal tower.
Samples are taken by hoses that snake to the top of the tower to ensure that only clean air is analyzed, he explained. He described other measures intended to guarantee an accurate record. Then Dr. Barnes, who works for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, displayed the hourly calculation from one of the analyzers.
It showed the amount of carbon dioxide that morning as 388 parts per million.
After Dr. Keeling had established the importance of carbon dioxide measurements, the government began making its own, in the early 1970s. Today, a NOAA monitoring program and the Scripps Institution of Oceanography program operate in parallel at Mauna Loa and other sites, with each record of measurements serving as a quality check on the other.
The Scripps program is now run by Ralph Keeling, who grew up to become a renowned atmospheric scientist in his own right and then joined the Scripps faculty. He took control of the measurement program after his father's sudden death from a heart attack.
In an interview on the Scripps campus in La Jolla, Ralph Keeling calculated that the carbon dioxide level at Mauna Loa was likely to surpass 400 by May 2014, a sort of odometer moment in mankind's alteration of the atmosphere.
''We're going to race through 400 like we didn't see it go by,'' Dr. Keeling said.
What do these numbers mean?
The basic physics of the atmosphere, worked out more than a century ago, show that carbon dioxide plays a powerful role in maintaining the earth's climate. Even though the amount in the air is tiny, the gas is so potent at trapping the sun's heat that it effectively works as a one-way blanket, letting visible light in but stopping much of the resulting heat from escaping back to space.
Without any of the gas, the earth would most likely be a frozen wasteland -- according to a recent study, its average temperature would be colder by roughly 60 degrees Fahrenheit. But scientists say humanity is now polluting the atmosphere with too much of a good thing.
In recent years, researchers have been able to put the Keeling measurements into a broader context. Bubbles of ancient air trapped by glaciers and ice sheets have been tested, and they show that over the past 800,000 years, the amount of carbon dioxide in the air oscillated between roughly 200 and 300 parts per million. Just before the Industrial Revolution, the level was about 280 parts per million and had been there for several thousand years.
That amount of the gas, in other words, produced the equable climate in which human civilization flourished.
Other studies, covering many millions of years, show a close association between carbon dioxide and the temperature of the earth. The gas seemingly played a major role in amplifying the effects of the ice ages, which were caused by wobbles in the earth's orbit.
The geologic record suggests that as the earth began cooling, the amount of carbon dioxide fell, probably because much of it got locked up in the ocean, and that fall amplified the initial cooling. Conversely, when the orbital wobble caused the earth to begin warming, a great deal of carbon dioxide escaped from the ocean, amplifying the warming.
Richard B. Alley, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University, refers to carbon dioxide as the master control knob of the earth's climate. He said that because the wobbles in the earth's orbit were not, by themselves, big enough to cause the large changes of the ice ages, the situation made sense only when the amplification from carbon dioxide was factored in.
''What the ice ages tell us is that our physical understanding of CO2 explains what happened and nothing else does,'' Dr. Alley said. ''The ice ages are a very strong test of whether we've got it right.''
When people began burning substantial amounts of coal and oil in the 19th century, the carbon dioxide level began to rise. It is now about 40 percent higher than before the Industrial Revolution, and humans have put half the extra gas into the air since just the late 1970s. Emissions are rising so rapidly that some experts fear that the amount of the gas could double or triple before emissions are brought under control.
The earth's history offers no exact parallel to the human combustion of fossil fuels, so scientists have struggled to calculate the effect.
Their best estimate is that if the amount of carbon dioxide doubles, the temperature of the earth will rise about five or six degrees Fahrenheit. While that may sound small given the daily and seasonal variations in the weather, the number represents an annual global average, and therefore an immense addition of heat to the planet.
The warming would be higher over land, and it would be greatly amplified at the poles, where a considerable amount of ice might melt, raising sea levels. The deep ocean would also absorb a tremendous amount of heat.
Moreover, scientists say that an increase of five or six degrees is a mildly optimistic outlook. They cannot rule out an increase as high as 18 degrees Fahrenheit, which would transform the planet.
Climate-change contrarians do not accept these numbers.
The Internet has given rise to a vocal cadre of challengers who question every aspect of the science -- even the physics, worked out in the 19th century, that shows that carbon dioxide traps heat. That is a point so elementary and well-established that demonstrations of it are routinely carried out by high school students.
However, the contrarians who have most influenced Congress are a handful of men trained in atmospheric physics. They generally accept the rising carbon dioxide numbers, they recognize that the increase is caused by human activity, and they acknowledge that the earth is warming in response.
But they doubt that it will warm nearly as much as mainstream scientists say, arguing that the increase is likely to be less than two degrees Fahrenheit, a change they characterize as manageable.
Among the most prominent of these contrarians is Richard Lindzen of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who contends that as the earth initially warms, cloud patterns will shift in a way that should help to limit the heat buildup. Most climate scientists contend that little evidence supports this view, but Dr. Lindzen is regularly consulted on Capitol Hill.
''I am quite willing to state,'' Dr. Lindzen said in a speech this year, ''that unprecedented climate catastrophes are not on the horizon, though in several thousand years we may return to an ice age.''
The Fuel of Civilization
While the world's governments have largely accepted the science of climate change, their efforts to bring emissions under control are lagging.
The simple reason is that modern civilization is built on burning fossil fuels. Cars, trucks, power plants, steel mills, farms, planes, cement factories, home furnaces -- virtually all of them spew carbon dioxide or lesser heat-trapping gases into the atmosphere.
Developed countries, especially the United States, are largely responsible for the buildup that has taken place since the Industrial Revolution. They have begun to make some headway on the problem, reducing the energy they use to produce a given amount of economic output, with some countries even managing to lower their total emissions.
But these modest efforts are being swamped by rising energy use in developing countries like China, India and Brazil. In those lands, economic growth is not simply desirable -- it is a moral imperative, to lift more than a third of the human race out of poverty. A recent scientific paper referred to China's surge as ''the biggest transformation of human well-being the earth has ever seen.''
China's citizens, on average, still use less than a third of the energy per person as Americans. But with 1.3 billion people, four times as many as the United States, China is so large and is growing so quickly that it has surpassed the United States to become the world's largest overall user of energy.
Barring some big breakthrough in clean-energy technology, this rapid growth in developing countries threatens to make the emissions problem unsolvable.
Emissions dropped sharply in Western nations in 2009, during the recession that followed the financial crisis, but that decrease was largely offset by continued growth in the East. And for 2010, global emissions are projected to return to the rapid growth of the past decade, rising more than 3 percent a year.
Many countries have, in principle, embraced the idea of trying to limit global warming to two degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, feeling that any greater warming would pose unacceptable risks. As best scientists can calculate, that means about one trillion tons of carbon can be burned and the gases released into the atmosphere before emissions need to fall to nearly zero.
''It took 250 years to burn the first half-trillion tons,'' Myles R. Allen, a leading British climate scientist, said in a briefing. ''On current trends, we'll burn the next half-trillion in less than 40.''
Unless more serious efforts to convert to a new energy system begin soon, scientists argue, it will be impossible to hit the 3.6-degree target, and the risk will increase that global warming could spiral out of control by century's end.
''We are quickly running out of time,'' said Josep G. Canadell, an Australian scientist who tracks emissions
In many countries, the United States and China among them, a conversion of the energy system has begun, with wind turbines and solar panels sprouting across the landscape. But they generate only a tiny fraction of all power, with much of the world's electricity still coming from the combustion of coal, the dirtiest fossil fuel.
With the exception of European countries, few nations have been willing to raise the cost of fossil fuels or set emissions caps as a way to speed the transformation. In the United States, a particular fear has been that a carbon policy will hurt the country's industries as they compete with companies abroad whose governments have adopted no such policy.
As he watches these difficulties, Ralph Keeling contemplates the unbending math of carbon dioxide emissions first documented by his father more than a half-century ago and wonders about the future effects of that increase.
''When I go see things with my children, I let them know they might not be around when they're older,'' he said. '' 'Go enjoy these beautiful forests before they disappear. Go enjoy the glaciers in these parks because they won't be around.' It's basically taking note of what we have, and appreciating it, and saying goodbye to it.''
On Dec. 11, another round of international climate negotiations, sponsored by the United Nations, concluded in Cancun. As they have for 18 years running, the gathered nations pledged renewed efforts. But they failed to agree on any binding emission targets.
Late at night, as the delegates were wrapping up in Mexico, the machines atop the volcano in the middle of the Pacific Ocean issued their own silent verdict on the world's efforts.
At midnight Mauna Loa time, the carbon dioxide level hit 390 -- and rising.
Temperature Rising: Articles in this series are focusing on the central arguments in the climate debate and examining the evidence for global warming and its consequences.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KEEPING WATCH: The Mauna Loa Observatory, at an altitude of 11,135 feet above sea level in Hawaii, has been continuously monitoring and collecting data related to climate change since the 1950s. (A24)
STRATOSPHERIC: At Mauna Loa, John E. Barnes uses a Lidar (Light Detection and Ranging) laser to track particulate matter in the stratospheric aerosol layer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN KINGSTON/AURORA SELECT, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE KEELINGS: Charles David Keeling, top, with his son Ralph in 1989. Above, Ralph Keeling at the University of California, San Diego, last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCRIPPS INSTITUTION OF OCEANOGRAPHY/U.C. SAN DIEGO
SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIM) (A25) CHARTS: An Ominous Rise: Charles David Keeling began taking precise measurements of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere in the 1950s. The graph of his findings, known as the Keeling Curve, shows that the amount of carbon dioxide is rising continuously over time. (Sources: Scripps Institution of Oceanography
National Climatic Data Center
Global Carbon Project
 Nature Geoscience) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); WEATHER (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



604 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: SENATE SET TO GIVE OBAMA A VICTORY ON ARMS CONTROL

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- An arms control treaty paring back American and Russian nuclear arsenals won a decisive vote in the Senate on Tuesday, clearing it for final approval and handing President Obama an important foreign policy victory.
The Senate voted 67 to 28 to end debate on the treaty, known as New Start, mustering the two-thirds majority needed for ratification despite a concerted effort by Republican leaders to sink the agreement. Eleven Republican senators joined every Democrat present to support the treaty, which now heads to a seemingly certain final vote of approval on Wednesday.
The outcome was another bipartisan victory for Mr. Obama, who emerged politically wounded from last month's midterm elections but then successfully pressed Congress to enact several of his top priorities. At his behest, lawmakers passed an $858 billion package of tax cuts and unemployment benefits, and they ended the longstanding ban on gay men and lesbians' serving openly in the military. 
New Start was the last major challenge of the session for Mr. Obama, and in some ways it was the clearest assertion of his authority in the face of an emboldened Republican Party. The tax-cut deal required the president to swallow a compromise that extended the lower, expiring Bush-era tax rates even for the wealthy, alienating much of his own party. The overturning of the ''don't ask, don't tell'' military policy was driven in the final days as much by senators as by the White House.
By putting his prestige on the line to push through the treaty before the end of the year, Mr. Obama made the fight a high-profile test of his clout in the new political environment. Just a month ago, prospects for the treaty appeared bleak in the face of Republican resistance. But Mr. Obama mounted an unusually relentless campaign to win over enough Republican senators to bypass their party's leaders.
''Today's bipartisan vote clears a significant hurdle in the Senate,'' said Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the Democratic chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, and the president's chief ally on the floor. ''We are on the brink of writing the next chapter in the 40-year history of wrestling with the threat of nuclear weapons.''
Republican critics called it a bad deal, arguing that the treaty's inspections were inadequate and that nonbinding language in its preamble could give Russia leverage to try to keep the United States from deploying missile defense installations in Eastern Europe.
''The administration did not negotiate a good treaty,'' said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Republican and the leader of the opposition. ''They went into negotiations, it seems to me, with the attitude with the Russians just like the guy that goes into the car dealership and says, 'I'm not leaving here until I buy a car.' ''
The treaty requires the United States and Russia to reduce their nuclear stockpiles so that within seven years of ratification neither deploys more than 1,550 strategic warheads and 700 launchers. It would also resume the on-site inspections that lapsed last December with the expiration of the original Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, or Start.
The agreement brings down the legal ceilings set by previous Russian-American treaties that it would now supplant. Under the Treaty of Moscow, signed by President George W. Bush in 2002, each side is allowed no more than 2,200 warheads as of 2012. Under Start, signed by President George H. W. Bush in 1991, each side was required to reduce launchers to 1,600 before it expired last year.
The United States currently has 1,950 deployed strategic warheads and 798 deployed launchers, according to the Federation of American Scientists, while Russia has 2,540 deployed strategic warheads and 574 strategic launchers. Because of counting rules, each side may not have to shelve as many weapons as those numbers imply, according to experts.
The debate over the treaty, however, ranged far beyond the numbers, revealing starkly different visions for national security in the 21st century. Mr. Obama and his supporters argued that ratification was essential to rebuilding a relationship with Russia and maintaining the international coalition against Iran's nuclear program. His critics said it represented a first step toward a dangerous and wrong-headed vision of eventually eliminating the world's nuclear weapons.
It also became entangled in issues like gay men and lesbians in the military, which some Republicans said poisoned the water for the treaty. And some critics questioned Mr. Obama's willingness as commander in chief to resist Russian pressure to drop missile defense to preserve the pact down the road.
''I cannot imagine this president taking it to the limit with the Russians because nothing he has done has convinced me that he is committed to missile defense,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who added that it was ''a monumental mistake'' to approve the treaty in a lame-duck session.
But the White House cast Mr. Obama in the shadow of President Ronald Reagan, who also talked of ridding the world of nuclear weapons. ''Our reductions in these are legacies of many presidents, including former President Ronald Reagan,'' said Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary. ''And it makes the world safer.''
Mr. Obama enlisted the elder Mr. Bush, former Republican secretaries of state, the nation's military commanders and Eastern European leaders to knock down objections. Every time a Republican needed assurance about missile defense, verification or nuclear modernization, supporters produced letters or statements from prominent figures.
In a final such letter to several senators, released Tuesday, Mr. Obama repeated his commitment to a 10-year, $85 billion program to modernize the nation's nuclear weapons complex to ensure that a shrinking nuclear arsenal would still be effective. ''My administration will pursue these programs and capabilities for as long as I am president,'' he wrote.
With Mr. Obama working the phones and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Capitol Hill, the reassurances won over Republicans like Senators Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker of Tennessee, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Johnny Isakson of Georgia, all of whom announced their support just before Tuesday's vote.
''I'm convinced that America is safer and more secure with the New Start treaty than without it,'' said Mr. Alexander, who just last week voted to block consideration of the pact on the floor. He cited Mr. Obama's modernization letter and added that the treaty still left the United States with ''enough nuclear warheads to blow any attacker to kingdom come.''
Other Republicans who voted to advance the treaty on Tuesday were Senators Robert F. Bennett of Utah, Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts, Thad Cochran of Mississippi, Susan Collins of Maine, Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and George V. Voinovich of Ohio.
The vote cleared the way for a final vote, although senators discussed a number of Republican amendments late into the night. Mr. Kerry accepted two Republican-sponsored side statements that called for modernizing nuclear delivery systems and opening new talks with Russia to reduce tactical nuclear weapons. The fate of another provision on missile defense, sponsored by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, remained undecided.
For final passage, the Constitution requires two-thirds of senators present. With Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, absent after prostate surgery, that means supporters need 66 votes. The Russian Parliament must approve the treaty as well, but given the Kremlin's dominance, that is considered a formality.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, led the opposition to an arms control treaty with Russia. (A1)
 Senators John Kerry, left, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, rallied votes for New Start. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) CHART: The Arms Debate: The New Start treaty signed by President Obama and President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia in April would bar the United States and Russia from deploying more than 1,550 strategic nuclear warheads and 700 launchers seven years after ratification. It would resume on-site inspections that stopped last December when the original Start treaty expired. Here are the main arguments as the Senate moves toward a final vote. (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (53%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN KERRY (89%); JON KYL (58%); DICK LUGAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



605 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Las Vegas, Long in Decay, Draws Developers Away From Strip

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- The Strip was long the place where developers bet big. They competed to put up the most extravagant and largest hotel-casinos -- and with rooms nearly always full, banks falling over themselves to lend and thousands of visitors arriving every day, their gamble made sense.
Lost in the building boom was Las Vegas's downtown. Rundown and seedy, it was largely home to government offices, pawn shops and worn casinos. Crime was a problem, and some stores were boarded up. Few visitors ventured there. 
Now, after a recession and the collapse of the national credit market, the Strip is left with half-built projects and a hangover of debt. But it is downtown that has emerged as an unlikely magnet for development.
Forest City Enterprises broke ground last January on a new City Hall downtown that the mayor expects will resuscitate the local economy. Forest City, a branch of which is developing the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn and built The New York Times's new headquarters in Midtown, plans to build up to 1.3 million square feet of office and retail space in the surrounding five blocks -- with a hotel-casino nearby, of course.
Construction on a $485 million performing arts center is also under way, and a brain health center recently opened in Symphony Park, a 61-acre development near downtown that will eventually include Forest City's hotel-casino. For both projects, the city either donated the land or sold bonds for their financing.
''This is our mini-stimulus plan,'' said the mayor, Oscar B. Goodman. ''Why not build now? I think you cheat your constituents because you're conceding that the economy has beat you, and I won't let that happen on my watch.''
Mr. Goodman said he saw the new city hall as the pinnacle of his tenure as he finishes his third and final term. He expects the building, located five blocks south of the existing one, which is at Stewart Avenue and Las Vegas Boulevard North, will bring in more than 13,000 new jobs, millions in tax revenue and billions in private investment.
To complete the deal, the city sold $188 million in bonds, largely through the federal Build America Bonds program, part of the economic recovery act, and agreed to a complicated lease-purchase agreement with Forest City. After completion the city will rent the building from the developer and trade the land underneath for a six-and-a-half-acre parcel in Symphony Park where the developer hopes to erect a 1,000-room hotel-casino.
Las Vegas certainly could use a lift. Last month the Brookings Institutionranked the city and surrounding valley the fifth-worst economy in the world, out of 150 metropolitan areas surveyed. Unemployment is among the nation's highest at 14.1 percent, and the city remains at the heart of the foreclosure crisis. For the 47th month in a row, Nevada led the country in foreclosure filings.
''I think we could easily wait four years until we see a recovery,'' said Stephen Brown, the director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
The market for office space could take as long as seven years to recover. Vacancies in the third quarter were 24.1 percent, and average monthly rents have fallen by as much as 50 percent over the last three years to $1.79 a square foot, according to the national commercial brokerage, CB Richard Ellis.
''We fell off the cliff, and we're using ropes to climb back up,'' said Charles Moore, a senior vice president in the private client group at CB Richard Ellis in Las Vegas.
Forest City expects it will have to attract companies from outside of town to fill its development. ''This isn't going to be a three- or five-year project, this is more like a 10- to 20-year project,'' said Eric J. Louttit, a vice president of Forest City who oversees downtown development in Las Vegas. ''The Vegas market will come back; it's just a matter of when.''
Mayor Goodman is doing what he can to get the economy off life support. Earlier this month, City Council sold the existing City Hall and surrounding seven acres to the Resort Gaming Group, a private Las Vegas developer, for $25 million. When the new City Hall is completed in two years, Resort Gaming will renovate the old site and lease it to the online shoe and apparel retailer Zappos for its new corporate campus.
The agreement is something of a sweetheart deal. The $25 million loan is broken into a $3 million down payment and two notes. The buyer will get a 30-year loan for $17 million with a fixed rate of 5.125 percent and will pay the remaining $5 million with no interest.
Such agreements, according to real estate brokers, are atypical. Commercial real estate loans generally do not carry fixed interest rates for 30 years; they either have interest rate resets or can be called in. Down payments usually are 30 to 40 percent of the total price, not 12 percent.
''In these uncertain times, people are taking drastic measures to get a deal done,'' Mr. Moore of CB Richard Ellis said. ''Otherwise, it wouldn't get done.''
For the last five to six years, Zappos has been looking for a new site that would give the company enough room to grow and add employee perks. The company had 70 employees when it moved to the Las Vegas area six years ago from San Francisco. By the end of this year, it expects to have 1,200. Leaving the suburb of Henderson and moving downtown will allow Zappos to move its workers from three buildings into one and be closer to good restaurants, cafes and bars.
''It's a really good location for us to help build out our culture for our employees,'' said Tony Hsieh, the chief executive of Zappos.
The Zappos move, brokers and analysts say, will give downtown a much-needed psychological boost and will help them sell office space to outside investors and companies skittish about setting up an office there.
''The main thing the Zappos move does is give Vegas bragging rights,'' Mr. Brown said. ''One of the things people who represent the city run up against is that people think only naughty things happen here. The city is also serious.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As part of a development resurgence in downtown Las Vegas, Forest City Enterprises broke ground last January on a new City Hall building, left. The old City Hall, right, will be renovated and leased as a corporate campus for the online retailer Zappos. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BONDS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); JOB CREATION (60%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (51%)

COMPANY: FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (56%)

TICKER: FCEB (NYSE) (56%); FCEA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (56%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



606 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Theater Group In Belarus Is Forced Underground

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
The Belarus Free Theater, one of the revelations of the 2008 Under the Radar alternative-theater festival, is scheduled to return for the 2011 edition of the event, which begins early next month. But a real-life drama has suddenly intruded: both founders of the troupe are now in hiding, and another member is in jail, as the result of a government crackdown on protests against a presidential election that human rights groups have described as rigged.
Nikolai Khalezin and Natalia Kolyada, the husband-and-wife team who run the five-year-old company, were at a demonstration on Sunday night on the main square in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, when government security forces charged. Ms. Kolyada was arrested, roughed up, released on bail and went underground, as did her husband. The company's manager, Artiom Zhelezniak, was less fortunate: he has been tried and convicted of charges of illegal assembly. 
''We don't know what happens next, and any kind of development is possible,'' Ms. Kolyada said in a telephone interview Tuesday from a location she would not disclose. ''Every one of us could be taken from the street, from apartments, from any place that we go. But we still hope to go to New York, because we understand it is important to speak on behalf of Belarus, so that the voices of those arrested can be heard in the world.''
The arrests of the theater company members are part of a larger campaign of repression directed by the government of Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, who claims to have won 79 percent of the vote in Sunday's balloting. Since 1994 Mr. Lukashenko has run this former republic of the Soviet Union, leading what former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice once called ''the last true remaining dictatorship in the heart of Europe.'' On Monday Mr. Lukashenko announced that more than 600 ''bandits and saboteurs,'' including several of his opponents, had been arrested.
The 12-member Belarussian company earned admiring reviews when ''Generation Jeans'' played at Under the Radar in 2008, and they have since performed elsewhere in the United States. ''Their work is innovative, adventurous and moving, on a par with the best ensembles working in this field of independent theater,'' said Mark Russell, the artistic director of Under the Radar, adding, ''They are the bravest theater makers I know.''
Asked about the prospects for their return to New York in time to perform, Mr. Russell said: ''We still have high hopes. We're not in touch with them right now, but efforts are being made around the world to secure their release and enable them to travel.''
Produced by the Public Theater, Under the Radar runs from Jan. 5 to 16, with the Belarus Free Theater scheduled to perform ''Being Harold Pinter,'' a piece that mixes transcribed statements by Belarussian political prisoners with writings by Pinter, the Nobel Prize winner, who also was a friend and supporter of the troupe. Interviewed in The Observer of London after seeing the production there, the playwright Tom Stoppard said, '' 'Being Harold Pinter' knocked me out.'' The Sunday Times of London wrote, ''Drama doesn't come more urgently political.''
The Belarus Free Theater operates from ''a small house on the outskirts of Minsk'' and ''is really tied in to the political opposition'' there, said Mike Harris, a spokesman for Index on Censorship, a London-based human rights group. Ties are particularly close with Charter 97, a pro-democracy initiative similar to the one founded in Czechoslovakia by the playwright Vaclav Havel and others when that country was under totalitarian rule.
Because the Lukashenko government will not allow the theater group to register as a public entity, ''technically we do not exist in Belarus,'' Ms. Kolyada said. As a result, the group can offer only free performances, since charging admission would leave members open to accusations of committing ''economic crimes,'' she said.
Members of the troupe and their relatives ''have lost their jobs or university positions and been beaten up,'' in an effort to close down the company, Ms. Kolyada added. ''When that didn't work, they targeted our audience and began to photograph and film the people who came to our shows and blackmail them.'' To elude the authorities, they inform followers of the time and place of some performances via Twitter.
On Dec. 5 the group was in England performing two plays at the Young Vic. They were harassed and threatened by customs officials as they left Minsk, Ms. Kolyada said. In London the troupe shared a stage with the actors Jude Law, Sienna Miller, Ian McKellen and Samuel West, who have all publicly supported freedom of expression in Belarus.
On Tuesday night Mr. Stoppard, who was born in Czechoslovakia, was the main speaker at a protest demonstration outside the Belarussian Embassy in London. Other British celebrities, Mick Jagger among them, have also signed a petition calling for the release of members of the Belarus Free Theater and an end to political repression in Belarus, Mr. Harris said.
''Our main mission now is to repeat in New York what was done in London,'' Ms. Kolyada said. ''Even if we are not allowed to travel, American artists need to make statements in solidarity, so that the people in charge know that these terrible things are being heard and watched all over the world.''
Mr. Russell of Under the Radar echoed that position. ''We definitely will be doing something,'' he said. ''We have a couple of ideas on the floor if they can make it,'' including adding performances of ''Zone of Silence,'' another of the troupe's works, and having American theater and film celebrities present at shows as a gesture of support. ''We're just trying to figure out how and when to do that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the Belarussian Embassy in London on Tuesday, Ian McKellen, right, joined protesters against renewed political repression. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VLADIMIR NIKOLSKY/REUTERS)
 Nikolai Khalezin of Belarus Free Theater in ''Generation Jeans'' in 2008, when it played New York as part of Under the Radar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATALIA KOLYADA)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (92%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); BAIL (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) BELARUS (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



607 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Indexes Gain After Another Bank Deal

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Financial companies led stock indexes to new highs Tuesday after another big banking deal raised hopes that more acquisitions could be on the way.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed above the level it reached on Sept. 12, 2008, the last trading day before the collapse of Lehman Brothers. The S.& P. index rose 7.52 points Tuesday, or 0.6 percent, to close at 1,254.60. It has jumped 6.3 percent this month and 12.5 percent this year.
The Dow Jones industrial average was at its highest since Aug. 29, 2008. It jumped 55.03 points, or 0.48 percent, to 11,533.16 and is up 4.8 percent so far this month. 
The Nasdaq composite index increased 18.05 points, or 0.68 percent, to 2,667.61, its highest close since Dec. 28, 2007. It is up 17.56 percent this year.
Toronto-Dominion Bank said that it was buying Chrysler Financial, the automaker's former lending arm, from Cerberus Capital Management for $6.3 billion.
It was the latest example of a relatively healthy Canadian bank buying a United States lender battered by the financial crisis. Toronto-Dominion bought Commerce Bancorp in 2008, and four days ago Bank of Montreal said that it would buy the bank Marshall & Ilsley, based in Milwaukee, for $4.1 billion.
Corporate mergers have picked up strongly this year. That, along with signs of an improving economy and a tax cut package passed last week, have helped drive stocks up. Investors like to see an increase in deals because it shows that companies are becoming more confident in the economy. It also leads investors to hunt for companies that might become targets for buyers.
The research firm Dealogic reported Tuesday that the total dollar amount of corporate deals has jumped 18 percent, to $2.7 trillion so far this year, compared with all of 2009. Caterpillar, Chevron and Google have also made significant deals in 2010.
''There is growing optimism about the economy, or at least the U.S. economy, in 2011,'' said Alan M. Gayle, senior investment strategist for RidgeWorth Investments. ''We're 18 months into this recovery, and good things are gradually happening.''
Financial companies were the best performers. JPMorgan Chase rose the most among the 30 companies that make up the Dow. The stock rose $1.05, or 2.63 percent, to $41.
Bank of America rose 36 cents, or 2.85 percent, to $12.98. Goldman Sachs climbed $2.18, or 1.31 percent, to $168.23, and Wells Fargo jumped 72 cents, or 2.39 percent, to $30.82.
Randy Bateman, chief investment officer for Huntington Asset Advisors, said there was a perception that some bigger banks ''will start an acquisition program of their own in addition to what we're seeing with some of the Canadian banks.''
Adobe Systems jumped 6 percent, to $30.93, after the software maker reported earnings that were much stronger than analysts had expected. The company also raised its forecast for earnings and revenue in the current quarter.
Another technology company, Jabil Circuit, rose 10.7 percent, to $19.55, after its income more than tripled on stronger revenue. Jabil, which makes parts for electronics and other technology companies, also issued a higher earnings and revenue forecast.
CarMax slumped $2.73, or 7.6 percent, to $33.17. The used-car dealership chain said its expenses rose 14 percent last quarter as the company paid more for sales commissions and advertising.
Bond prices were relatively flat. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 9/32, to 94 10/32, and the yield slipped to 3.30 percent, from 3.34 percent late Monday.
The euro fell against the dollar after Portugal became the latest European country to be warned of a possible credit rating downgrade.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TAX RELIEF (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); BANK OF MONTREAL (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (69%); TD BANK NA (68%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (59%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (56%); GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (85%); BMO (TSX) (84%); BMO (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); TD (TSX) (69%); TD (NYSE) (69%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (71%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (69%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



608 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: THE NEEDIEST CASE; Far From Family, an Immigrant Fights Cancer and the Cold

BYLINE: By REBECCA WHITE

 BODY:
Every weekday at 8 a.m., Efrenngton Armijos, 50, makes an arduous trek. Bundled up in layers -- but wearing loafers that expose his ankles -- he braces himself for December's piercing weather.
''I have only these,'' Mr. Armijos said through an interpreter, pointing to his loafers. ''These are not proper for the cold, but I have no money to buy shoes.''
It is not just the weather that Mr. Armijos is fighting. In June, he was told he had Stage 1 gastric cancer. He began daily radiation treatments in November, traveling from his home in Elmhurst, Queens, to New York Hospital Queens in Flushing. 
An immigrant from Ecuador, Mr. Armijos has lived in the United States for 21 years. His wife and children live in Ecuador and cannot afford to visit him. Without family, he navigates New York City's public transportation system alone.
''I take the train and the bus,'' Mr. Armijos said of the almost hourlong commute. ''I have to walk very slowly. I am forced to get the strength to go to my appointments.''
The journey to the hospital for radiation treatments is complicated by the infusion pump he wears around his neck at all times. The pump, connected by a tube to a port in his chest, administers his chemotherapy throughout the day.
Mr. Armijos first felt ill in April, when his appetite became insatiable. ''I was getting hungry every two hours. I was overeating,'' he said. ''I went to my primary doctor. I felt that was not normal.''
Shortly after his illness was diagnosed, Mr. Armijos had to quit his job cleaning construction sites to prepare for surgery. In July, he had an operation to remove part of his stomach.
Mr. Armijos was scheduled to start chemotherapy and radiation treatments in August, but an insurance lapse caused a delay of almost three months. While his radiation and chemotherapy treatments are covered through Medicaid, he is on his own for transportation costs.
''I was fighting for over 45 days over transportation,'' Mr. Armijos said. ''One day I got so upset that I cried. They only said, 'We can't do anything.' ''
His doctor advised him against traveling to treatments unaccompanied because of possible side effects, like nausea and dizziness. Mr. Armijos's former boss picked him up from his first chemotherapy treatment, considered the harshest.
Mr. Armijos has applications pending with the American Cancer Society for its transportation program, and he is still trying to negotiate his Medicaid coverage.
He is not certain how long his cancer treatments will have to continue; his doctor said it was too early to offer a prognosis. Each month he receives $190 in food stamps and $298 from the city, with $215 going directly toward his rent. After months of unemployment, he found he was in arrears.
In September, Mr. Armijos sought help from Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. His caseworker secured $350 for back rent and $298.09 for utilities.
''It was a relief for me,'' Mr. Armijos said. ''I was very behind.''
In August, Mr. Armijos, the primary earner in his family, made his first trip back to Ecuador in two years, thanks to a friend who bought him a plane ticket. He had just had surgery, but could not pass up the chance to see his wife and children: his son, Kevin, 12, and his daughter, Anahis, 10.
''A friend called me and said, 'You want to go?' ''
He said, referring to his infusion pump, ''Machine and all, I go.''
Gathering strength is something he takes pride in. ''I'm a hard worker,'' he said. ''When I feel dizzy, I walk around. I don't allow myself to give up.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Efrenngton Armijos, 50, takes public transportation every weekday for his radiation treatments, wearing an infusion pump around his neck. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded $2,815,000 Recorded Monday 139,963 Total $2,954,963 Last year to date $3,243,507 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (90%); RADIOLOGY (89%); MEDICAID (88%); ONCOLOGY (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (75%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); TRAINS (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ECUADOR (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



609 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: DEAL PROFESSOR; Private Equity Looks Abroad, but May Be Blind to the Risks

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff, a former corporate lawyer at Shearman & Sterling, is a professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chief executive of the Blackstone Group, is Paris-bound. Mr. Schwarzman will spend the next four to six months in France working on international opportunities for Blackstone.
The timing is propitious. Mr. Schwarzman has been private equity's most vocal critic of American economic policy. His recent comments and venture abroad jibe with conventional wisdom: the United States is overregulated, and private equity's great investment opportunities lie across the oceans.
But this conventional wisdom may be overstated. Mr. Schwarzman will encounter a number of problems abroad: 
LIMITS ON PROFITS Private equity has had some wondrous investments in the United States. Only a few years ago, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and two other private equity firms made $1.2 billion in about a year by investing in the satellite company PanAmSat.
Outside the United States, though, regulators often lash out when private equity firms profit unduly at the local investors' expense. Lone Star Funds, based in the United States, for example, bought about 71 percent of Korea Exchange Bank in 2003 for $1.2 billion. Lone Star's plan to sell the stake in 2006 for $7.3 billion was scuttled by the South Korean government because of the enormous profit. Lone Star and its local executives subsequently faced criminal charges, and Lone Star is now trying again to sell its remaining stake for $4.1 billion. Lone Star's experience shows the nationalistic tightrope that private equity walks abroad, risking penalty if it is seen as taking undue advantage of local investors.
HIGHER TAXES In the United States, private equity again won the carried-interest battle, and private equity managers' profits will remain taxed at the lower capital gains rate rather than income. But in France, Germany, Sweden and most other European countries, taxes are much higher, approaching 50 percent..
MORE REGULATION Regulation in the United States is often less intrusive compared with that in the countries where private equity firms have set their sights. The European Union is about to adopt the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, which will impose greater capital and disclosure requirements on private equity firms, regulation which is much stricter than the Dodd-Frank Act.
LACK OF RULE OF LAWSometimes it is not too much law, but too little. In many countries, like Russia, the rule of law is significantly weaker. Laws are malleable, and courts can be purchased or influenced to a local's advantage. This is not just non-Western countries. In Australia, for example, the country's tax regulator reinterpreted its tax rules to serve TPG Capital with an unexpected bill of $600 million related to its 2009 sale of the retail chain Myer.
RESTRICTIONS ON OWNERSHIP In the United States, private equity can freely purchase and sell companies. But in other countries, there are restrictions on foreign ownership. In India, foreign ownership of retail businesses is largely prohibited, and investment in a foreign company requires the approval of two different regulators. In China, not only is pre-approval of foreign investment required, but investments are also allowed only in certain industries.
The effect of these restrictions is to force private equity firms to team up with locals. K.K.R., for example, only last week bought a minority passive stake with a Chinese private equity firm in VATS Liquor Store, China's largest liquor purveyor. But these domestic investors can use the lack of rule of law or simple nationalism to take advantage of their foreign partners. In a prominent example, Danone, the French yogurt maker, fell out with its Chinese joint venture partner. The two ended up in litigation in mainland China and abroad, and Danone eventually sold its stake and left the country.
CURRENCY RESTRICTIONS AND RISKSIn today's world, private equity can be tripped up by countries' trying to influence the value of their currencies. Indonesia, South Korea and Thailand have all imposed financial levies on foreign purchases of various securities. China restricts foreign currency investment, which is why there has been an attempt by private equity firms to set up renminbi-denominated funds. And then there are the euro's problems.
One reason private equity was successful in the United States was its ability to reorganize companies by taking majority ownership and eliminating management inefficiencies. But the American private equity model is not transportable abroad because of the different environment.
Foreign governments in emerging markets will also tend to steer the best investments to local heroes. Private equity is often seen as only a bridge to establishing local, homegrown industries.
If private equity is going to succeed abroad, it is going to need to turn to new forms of investing, where its skills or capital are valued, like distressed investing. This is a bit far afield from what some of these firms have done in the United States, and it presents new risks. It will also require more political savvy. In other words, private equity firms abroad may be doing anything but private equity investments.
This may be why private equity investing abroad has grown relatively slowly compared with the regions that the firms desire to invest in. In 2005, private equity invested $47 billion in the Asia-Pacific region, compared with $73 billion so far this year, according to Capital IQ data. During that period, private equity investment in Europe declined 36 percent, to $141 billion. Private equity investment in all of Latin America this year is only about $10 billion.
The lure of investment riches abroad is a perennial feature of America. Opportunities exist, but sometimes the search abroad is a product of wanderlust.
After all, in the late 1980s, the Japanese firm Nikko Securities invested $100 million in Blackstone. Blackstone was going to capitalize on these connections as Japan was poised to surpass the United States economically. Blackstone successfully used Nikko's capital to expand in the United States. As for Japan, we know how that story ended.
This wave of private equity foreign investment still must play out. In the short term, profits may be easy because of the bubbly nature of the Chinese and other developing economies. But Mr. Schwarzman and his colleagues will have their work cut out for them to replicate their United States. successes abroad. They may even come to appreciate the United States' regulatory touch.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (95%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TAX LAW (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); DIVESTITURES (73%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (68%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (67%); RETAILERS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); KKR & CO LP (84%); LONE STAR FUNDS (69%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (55%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%); KKR (NYSE) (84%); 004940 (KSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (69%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (69%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



610 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Elite Colleges Rethink Ties to R.O.T.C. After 'Don't Ask' Repeal

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN and ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Senate vote to repeal the 17-year old ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy against gay men and lesbians serving openly in the armed forces removes a reason that many elite colleges have cited for barring the Reserve Officers Training Corps from recruiting on their campuses.
Already, the presidents of Harvard, Yale and Columbia have issued statements expressing interest in bringing back the R.O.T.C.. But it is not clear whether there will be enough student interest on those campuses to warrant its presence. 
The R.O.T.C., which has units on 327 campuses nationwide, was sent packing from several Ivy League and other prominent campuses in the late 1960s and early 1970s, in the firestorm of student protests against the Vietnam War. More recently, though, it has faced opposition because of discrimination against gay men and lesbians in the military.
Eileen M. Lainez, a Defense Department spokeswoman, said Monday that it would be ''premature to speculate'' on plans for new R.O.T.C. units.
Diane H. Mazur, a law professor at the University of Florida and a former Air Force officer, said she doubted whether the military would reinstate the R.O.T.C. at Ivy League colleges because it is expensive to operate there, particularly for the relatively few number of students the services are likely to recruit.
''I think the military is much more persuaded by output, is much more persuaded by economic efficiency,'' Ms. Mazur said.
Drew Faust, the president of Harvard, said over the weekend that she was looking forward to ''pursuing discussions with military officials and others to achieve Harvard's full and formal recognition of R.O.T.C..''
Last month, in a joint appearance with Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who opposed the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy, Dr. Faust said she hoped the policy would end, so that Harvard could embrace ''both service and inclusion.'' A Harvard spokesman said 19 of its students participated in the R.O.T.C. at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
President Lee Bollinger of Columbia said the repeal of ''don't ask, don't tell'' would allow the university to fulfill its desire to be more open to the military. In a statement, Mr. Bollinger said the repeal ''effectively ends what has been a vexing problem for higher education, including at Columbia, given our desire to be open to our military, but not wanting to violate our own core principle against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.''
The Student Affairs Committee of the Columbia University Senate, a policy-making body of students, faculty members, administrators, alumni and others, said Monday that it had formed a Task Force on Military Engagement to consider whether the university should formally participate in the R.O.T.C.
Before making any decision, the committee said, it would conduct an opinion survey and hold hearings on the issue. The committee's chairman, Tao Tan, said the process would be driven by students, rather than faculty members.
Several Columbia students said this week that while they would not object to the return of the R.O.T.C., they did not expect their classmates to show much interest in military careers.
''Most people come here to have a specific career,'' said Alex Gaspard, 18, who hopes to go to law school. ''Investment bankers or lawyers.''
Chimezie Ozurumba, a 32-year old graduate student studying finance, added, ''Most students here aren't focused on military service.''
Columbia has six students currently enrolled in R.O.T.C. programs at nearby institutions, Robert Hornsby, a university spokesman, said.
At New York University, where there is no ban on the R.O.T.C., students who want to participate go to programs at other campuses, said John Beckman, a spokesman.
Yale's president, Richard C. Levin, said Monday that the university was ''eager to open discussions about expanding opportunities for students interested in military service, and we will be discussing this matter with the faculty of Yale College in the spring semester.'' Yale College is the university's undergraduate division.
Dr. Levin acknowledged, however, that while he had asked Yale executives to explore the military's interest in re-establishing a R.O.T.C. unit, it was not a foregone conclusion that the Department of Defense would agree to return.
Four Yale students attend the R.O.T.C. at either the University of Connecticut or the University of New Haven, said Thomas Conroy, a spokesman for Yale.
Brown currently has only one student participating in an R.O.T.C. program, through Providence College, a spokeswoman said. The R.O.T.C. was phased out in the early 1970s based on academic issues, she said, and any academic issues raised by a return of the R.O.T.C. would require a faculty vote.
At Stanford, where about 15 students participate in the R.O.T.C. at nearby campuses, the Faculty Senate's ad hoc committee on the R.O.T.C. has for months been considering whether to expand its relationship with the R.O.T.C., and is scheduled to make a recommendation this spring.
''I'm personally delighted by the repeal, and I do have the feeling it will lighten the task of our committee,'' said Ewart Thomas, a psychology professor who heads the committee.
But, Dr. Thomas said, there may be continued opposition to the R.O.T.C. on campus, whether from those who believe the military will still discriminate against gay men and lesbians or for academic reasons.
When Stanford's R.O.T.C. was shut down in 1973, he said, the stated reason was not the politics of the Vietnam War, but rather academic standards: the low-quality intellectual content of R.O.T.C. courses, Stanford concluded, did not meet university standards.
''Of course, you have to distinguish between what was said, and the political climate,'' Dr. Thomas said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pickets opposing R.O.T.C., the war in Vietnam and American action in the Dominican Republic at Columbia on June 1, 1965. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT WALKER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (55%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); VIET NAM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



611 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: The Tax-Cap Illusion

 BODY:
At a time when Americans are feeling overburdened, capping property taxes can sound like a great idea. It certainly does to Andrew Cuomo, the governor-elect of New York. But a tax cap sounds a lot more helpful than it is. It is a blunt instrument that ends up punishing many of the taxpayers and communities in need of relief.
History shows, painfully, that caps can do more harm than good. California's Proposition 13 led to the deterioration of universities, schools and other public facilities. Massachusetts imposed a cap in 1980 and soon police officers and firefighters were laid off and senior centers were closed. By 1991, the State Board of Education warned of a crisis with too many classrooms simply ''warehousing'' students. 
The effects of tax caps are more powerful in bad economic times, and in poorer neighborhoods. Many tax caps -- like the one in New Jersey -- can be overturned by a majority of voters in a district. Richer communities tend to agree to the higher taxes, usually to improve their schools. Poorer ones more often go without. The New Jersey cap also has exemptions for health care and pensions -- areas where costs are rising rapidly.
Mr. Cuomo would be the third recent New York governor who wants to limit annual increases in property taxes outside New York City. He is calling for a 2 percent cap, very limited exceptions and a requirement that 60 percent of voters agree to an increase above the cap. Like the other two governors, Mr. Cuomo is on the wrong track. What he should be worrying about are the underlying reasons that property taxes keep rising:
Personnel costs are skyrocketing. Outside New York City, the cost of pensions, health insurance and others benefits for workers has been increasing about 10 percent a year since 1998, according to the State Department of Education. The Legislature over the years has sweetened benefit packages as a way of rewarding teachers or other workers. Mr. Cuomo should push for regional collective bargaining instead of district by district. The goal should be pensions and health care systems for government workers that are more like those in the private sector.
The Legislature enjoys passing laws without giving locals the money to pay for them. Take special education, which at more than $24,000 per student is far more expensive in New York than in most other states. For years, lawmakers have added 257 additional requirements to federal disabilities laws, according to the Citizens Budget Commission. Those additions cost local districts extra, mostly for personnel. Mr. Cuomo needs to do a sweep of the extraneous mandates before imposing a tax cap on local communities.
There are too many separate school districts -- about 700 ranging from New York City, with 1,700 schools, to others that have fewer than 200 students. Consolidation could save money and even enhance curriculum.
The formulas for giving out educational funds in New York still fail to recognize that the least well-off districts need more money. The state still sends plenty of money to the public schools on Long Island, including some that are better than private academies, thanks to the rich communities around them. That leaves barely enough for the Bronx or some of the poorer, rural areas upstate.
Mr. Cuomo should address these issues first. Instead, he is focused on a tax cap. Perhaps he will change his mind when the firehouses, the police cars and -- mostly -- the schools start to deteriorate.
Correction: December 25, 2010, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An editorial on Wednesday about property taxes misstated the size of the New York City school system. It has about 1,700 schools, not 1,100 teachers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); CURRICULA (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (66%); LABOR UNIONS (62%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



612 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: The Insurance Mandate: Is It Legal?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Can Congress Force You to Be Healthy?,'' by Jason Mazzone (Op-Ed, Dec. 17), defending a federal judge's ruling that the health insurance mandate is unconstitutional:
We need to look at the consequences to patients, interstate commerce and the economics of health care if the mandate provision of the Affordable Care Act is overturned. When an individual with limited income chooses to forgo health insurance and comes down with appendicitis, how should the health system respond? 
Mr. Mazzone uses the analogy of someone forgoing auto insurance alternatively taking the bus. What is the alternative to an appendectomy?
The care providers must either (1) explain to the patient that he did not choose wisely, provide him with some pain tablets and push him to the parking lot or (2) treat him appropriately. The former is both illegal and unethical; the latter (current practice) is where the commerce issues arise.
The costs of care for illness must be borne by someone. Currently these costs are paid by the state (taxpayers) and, through cost-shifting, the insurance carriers, many of whom are national companies.
The bus analogy, while clever, is inappropriate and trivializes the dire status of our current system and our public's health.
Tim Carey Chapel Hill, N.C., Dec. 17, 2010
The writer is an internist and health services researcher.
To the Editor:
Congress may not be able to force individuals to be healthy, but it does force emergency physicians to treat them when they aren't. The federal Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act requires emergency physicians to treat everyone who comes to the emergency room, regardless of insurance status or ability to pay.
An emergency physician provides more uncompensated care -- some estimate upward of $130,000 per year on average -- than any other physician. Uncompensated care has led to the closing of hundreds of emergency departments, which affects everyone -- insured or not -- who needs emergency care.
Debate over the new health care law continues, including among members of my own profession. But we can all agree on this: 50 million uninsured Americans are going to need medical care at some point. And we will be required to provide it, whether they pay us or not.
Sandra Schneider President, American College of Emergency Physicians Washington, Dec. 17, 2010
To the Editor:
Jason Mazzone argues that Congress cannot force someone to buy medical insurance because it can regulate only what we do, not inaction. This assumes that medical care is something we can do without. But those who do not buy insurance almost invariably seek medical care and impose the cost on the rest of us. To avoid paying for their care, we would have to callously deny them treatment and watch them die at the hospital gates.
The Constitution does not require us to respect the right not to buy insurance only to force the rest of us either to pay for medical care for others or to deny it when it is needed.
Remember that Medicare is based on the Congressional powers to tax and spend. It is ironic indeed that many conservatives who oppose the mandate believe that the only constitutional way to achieve universal health insurance is through the public option that they deplored.
Joseph William Singer Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 17, 2010
The writer is a professor at Harvard Law School.
To the Editor:
Jason Mazzone asserts that Congress cannot penalize inaction, but then undermines his own argument. In a throwaway phrase, he says that ''outside of special relationships like that between a parent and a child, there is no duty to act.'' A parent has a duty to a child because someone else is affected by the parent's inaction.
The same is true for someone who refuses to obtain health coverage. Others -- in this case even interstate commerce -- may definitely be affected by that inaction.
Max J. Skidmore Overland Park, Kan., Dec. 17, 2010
The writer is a professor of political science at the University of Missouri.
To the Editor:
At Philadelphia in 1787, the Constitutional Convention's resolution that Congress could ''legislate in all cases to which the separate States are incompetent'' was the basis for the powers enumerated in the Constitution. Health care is such a case.
Any state that mandates insurance for pre-existing conditions will attract sick people and drive away healthy ones. That is why only Massachusetts has attempted it.
If Congress can't require people to buy insurance before they get sick, the problem of pre-existing conditions can't be solved at all. A government in which huge national problems can't be solved is precisely what the framers were trying to avoid when they replaced the Articles of Confederation with the Constitution.
Andrew Koppelman Chicago, Dec. 17, 2010
The writer is a professor of law and political science at Northwestern University School of Law.
To the Editor:
I was relieved to read Jason Mazzone's statement that criminal law and tort law punish only action, not inaction. I will be sure to retain him if the Internal Revenue Service comes after me for not paying taxes, if a delivery man sues me after falling on my unshoveled walkway, and, of course, if I decide I don't want to obtain health insurance.
Wayne M. Rubin White Plains, Dec. 17, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN BARRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); INSURANCE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (77%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (75%); WRITERS (73%); ETHICS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



613 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: DEALBOOK ONLINE

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN, AZAM AHMED; MAC WILLIAM BISHOP; CHRIS V. NICHOLSON

 BODY:
FUND-RAISING The Blackstone Group is near completion of a $15 billion buyout fund, a person close to the firm said. While it is smaller than Blackstone's previous $21 billion fund, the new fund is the largest since the financial crisis. 
''Considering we started raising funds after the meltdown, the fund size of close to $15 billion is a remarkable accomplishment,'' Hamilton James, above, the president of Blackstone, said at the Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch Banking and Financial Services conference last month, according to a Dow Jones report. PETER LATTMAN
HOT POCKETS A new service started by Hedgebay, an outfit that makes secondary markets for hedge fund stakes, is trying to put a price tag on side pockets, those opaque segregated accounts. By creating a system, the financial firm hopes to bolster trading in these types of assets.
''There's a lack of information and transparency for this type of illiquid asset,'' says Elias Tueta, a co-founder at Hedgebay. ''More informed investors will be more willing to trade.'' AZAM AHMED
VIDEO The attorney general of New York, Andrew M. Cuomo, below, is accusing Ernst & Young of helping Lehman Brothers ''engage in a massive accounting fraud.'' In a video, Peter Lattman, a DealBook reporter, explains the complex transaction at the heart of the case -- which made the company's books look healthier than they actually were.
MAC WILLIAM BISHOP
ACQUISITION Royal DSM, the Dutch life sciences and chemicals company, agreed to buy Martek Biosciences for $1.087 billion in cash. The company is paying $31.50 per Martek share, a 35 percent premium over the target firm's close on Monday. The tender process is set to open next month and wrap up in February, with the transaction to close in the first half. It is being financed with DSM's existing cash reserves. CHRIS V. NICHOLSON
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); CHEMICALS (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (52%); ACCOUNTING (51%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); KONINKLIJKE DSM NV (ROYAL DSM) (54%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (91%); DSM (AMS) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (54%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (54%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



614 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Fed Extends Currency Swaps With Europe

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Federal Reserve extended a program set up earlier this year to ease strains from the European debt crisis.
The program, which was set to expire in January, will now run through Aug. 1, the Fed announced on Tuesday. 
The Fed is lending dollars to other central banks in exchange for their currencies. The central banks can lend those dollars out to banks in their home countries to ease financial turmoil.
The Fed's ''swap'' program was set up in May as fears rose that Greece's debt crisis could engulf other European countries. European banks need dollars to lend to companies across the Continent. European companies that have operations in the United States pay their employees in dollars and buy raw materials with the United States currency.
The Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan and the Swiss National Bank all have swap arrangements with the Fed.
''The reality is Europe isn't out of the woods yet,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS Global Insight. ''This extends a tool to central banks if they need it.''
Use of the program peaked in May, shortly after the swap arrangements were set up. The Fed had lent the European Central Bank $9.2 billion and was repaid.
By June, the Fed had lent $6.64 billion through the program. Most went to the European Central Bank, and was repaid. Use of the program has since waned. As of early December, the Fed had lent only $60 million to the European Central Bank.
However, the debt crisis has spread from Greece to engulf Ireland, which required a $90 billion bailout in late November from the European Union and International Monetary Fund. The crisis threatens other European countries, including Spain and Portugal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EURO (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (69%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (69%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CANADA (79%); SPAIN (79%); GREECE (73%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



615 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: South and West See Large Gains In Latest Census

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and JEFF ZELENY; Robert Gebeloff contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Census Bureau rearranged the country's political map on Tuesday, giving more Congressional seats to the South and the West at the expense of the Northeast and the Midwest -- changes that will have far-reaching implications for elections over the next decade.
The reallocation of seats was based on a new decennial population count of 308,745,538 Americans. The total was up by just 9.7 percent over the last decade, the slowest rate of growth since the 1930s. Demographers attribute the decline in part to falling birth rates among whites and the slowdown in immigration because of the recession. 
These are the first results from the census conducted this year, and they will be used to reapportion seats in Congress, and, in turn, the Electoral College, based on new state population counts. The figures will influence the landscape for the 2012 presidential race and the makeup of the Electoral College, with Republican-leaning states from the Sun Belt gaining more political influence at the expense of Democratic-leaning Rust Belt states.
According to the new counts, Texas will gain four seats, Florida will gain two, while New York and Ohio each lose two. Fourteen other states gained or lost one seat. The gainers included Arizona, Georgia, Nevada, South Carolina and Utah; the losers included Illinois, Louisiana, Massachusetts and New Jersey.
If President Obama were to win in the next election the same states he carried in 2008, he would receive six fewer electoral votes under the new map. Yet that shift would be significant only if the race were very close.
It is also unclear if the gains will go mostly to Republicans, since more than three-quarters of the population gains in the last decade were members of minorities, populations that tend to vote for Democrats.
The changes followed a long-running trend of population growth in the South and the West, and loss in the Northeast and the Midwest. In 1910, the West made up just 7 percent of the American population, compared with nearly 25 percent today, said Robert M. Groves, the director of the Census Bureau. About 40 percent of the decade's growth was driven by immigration, he added.
The release rang the opening bell for the inevitable battles over redrawing Congressional districts. With a presidential election just two years away, and Republicans enjoying momentum after their sweep of state legislatures in November, the stakes are high.
On the surface, Republicans would seem to have an overwhelming advantage. Most of the states gaining seats trend Republican, and most of those losing them tend to elect Democrats. What is more, Republicans will be well-placed to steer the process, with Republican governors outnumbering Democratic ones 29 to 20, with one independent, come January.
''Republicans are in the best position since modern redistricting began,'' said Tim Storey, an expert on redistricting at the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Of the 336 districts whose borders are drawn by state legislatures, Republicans have full control of 196, Mr. Storey said. Democrats control legislatures for 49; a further 91 are split. The rest would be drawn by divided legislatures or appointed commissions.
But population gains in the South and West were driven overwhelmingly by members of minorities, particularly Hispanics. The new districts will need to be drawn to reflect their numbers, opening potential advantages for Democrats.
''Just because Texas is getting four new seats does not mean Republicans will get four new Republicans to Congress,'' Mr. Storey said. ''You don't have unfettered ability to redraw new boundaries.''
It is a complex landscape of shifting advantages, and lawyers for both parties are already designing legal strategies in the event of stalemates in state legislatures, where redistricting battles play out. The last census, in 2000, set off litigation in about 40 states. The real work of redrawing begins in February, when the Census Bureau releases detailed geographic counts for each state.
''You either have a deadlock or a compromise plan, and I don't see a lot of compromise going on these days,'' said Gerald Hebert, a lawyer who represents Congressional Democrats. ''Parties really prepare for war on this thing.''
The census results provided the starkest warning yet that the survival of both political parties could turn on how their candidates appeal to greater numbers of Hispanics, particularly in Arizona, Florida and Texas. Still, the Hispanic population includes people who cannot vote because they are not American citizens.
In Texas, for example, more than 85 percent of the population growth has been minority, according to Kenneth Johnson, a demographer at the University of New Hampshire. And even though Republicans control every statewide elected office and both chambers of the legislature, state Republican officials concede that the district lines will most likely be drawn so Democrats are in position to win as many as two of the new seats.
Legislatures are required to follow the Voting Rights Act, which outlawed discriminatory voting practices, and Matt Angle, the director of the Lone Star Project, a Democratic policy group, warned that Republicans would face court challenges under the act if they ''got too greedy.''
Even so, Democrats have struggled to make significant inroads in Texas in recent elections, with Mr. Obama losing by 12 percentage points in 2008.
Ohio, which has long been among the most influential presidential battleground states, is losing two House seats, bringing its total to 16, the fewest since 1820. The state has lost seats every decade going back to 1970, reflecting its painful economic decline as its industry contracted.
''It's distressing to all of us, to anyone from Ohio,'' said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio. ''It's a difficult thing because we lose a lot of influence that way.''
Arizona, with the second-highest population rise after Nevada, is the state most likely to become a new presidential battleground. Mr. Obama considered competing there two years ago, but decided against spending money in the home state of his Republican opponent, Senator John McCain.
White House advisers said the new census map still left plenty of paths to reach 270 electoral votes needed to win the election in 2012. The losses in eight Democratic-leaning states were expected, aides said, and were slightly offset by gains in Nevada and Washington.
''I don't think it will have a huge practical impact,'' Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said Tuesday.
Online Correction: December 21, 2010, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: In an earlier version of this article, the word ''million'' appeared in error after the figure for the population of the United States, 308,745,538.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert M. Groves, the Census Bureau director, on Tuesday announced the population figures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) (A22) CHART: Congressional Seats In Each Region: The West has grown steadily since 1920
it surpassed the Midwest for the first time in 2010. (A1)
 MAP: 2010 Census: Gains and Losses in Congress: The nation's political map shifted on Tuesday as the Census Bureau released state population counts, the first figures from the 2010 census to be announced. The South and the West continued to gain seats. (Source: Census Bureau) (MAP BY MATTHEW BLOCH, MATTHEW ERICSON AND KEVIN QUEALY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



616 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BOWERS, PATRICIA FRITZ

 BODY:
BOWERS--Patricia Fritz, died unexpectedly and peacefully at home on December 13, at the age of 82. She was a person of great elegance, a world traveler with an exquisite eye for art. Pat was employed by the Federal Reserve after receiving her BA degree from Cornell University and her Ph.D. from NYU. She retired after many years as professor of economics at Brooklyn College and Chair of the Economics Department there. She has been a loyal contributor to many educational and art organizations and will be grievously missed by them as well as by her many friends. Memorial Services will be announced at a later date; contact the New York City Cornell Club for information. Four Cornell Friends 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (83%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



617 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths LEVINE, ROBERT A.

 BODY:
LEVINE--Robert A.,died on December 6, 2010, in Los Angeles. He was 80 years old. A Brooklyn native, Dr. Levine graduated from Harvard College in 1950 and received his Ph.D. in economics from Yale in 1957. In 1956, Dr. Levine moved to Los Angeles, where he has lived with his wife, Carol, for most of the last 50 years. From 1974 to 1975, Dr. Levine returned to New York to serve as President of the New York City Rand Institute. A longtime employee of the RAND Corporation, Dr. Levine also served in the Office of Economic Opportunity as Chief Planner for the War on Poverty from 1965 to 1968 and as Deputy Director of the Congressional Budget Office from 1975 to 1979. His published works include The Arms Debate, The Poor Ye Need Not Have With You, and Public Planning: Failure and Redirection. Dr. Levine is survived by his wife of 57 years, Carol Levine, his sons, David, Peter and Joseph, and his grandchildren, Milena Davidson-Levine and Daniel Levine. A Memorial Service is scheduled for February 5, 2011, in Santa Monica, CA. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BUDGETS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



618 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: African Farmers Displaced as Investors Move In

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

 BODY:
SOUMOUNI, Mali -- The half-dozen strangers who descended on this remote West African village brought its hand-to-mouth farmers alarming news: their humble fields, tilled from one generation to the next, were now controlled by Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, and the farmers would all have to leave.
''They told us this would be the last rainy season for us to cultivate our fields; after that, they will level all the houses and take the land,'' said Mama Keita, 73, the leader of this village veiled behind dense, thorny scrubland. ''We were told that Qaddafi owns this land.''
Across Africa and the developing world, a new global land rush is gobbling up large expanses of arable land. Despite their ageless traditions, stunned villagers are discovering that African governments typically own their land and have been leasing it, often at bargain prices, to private investors and foreign governments for decades to come. 
Organizations like the United Nations and the World Bank say the practice, if done equitably, could help feed the growing global population by introducing large-scale commercial farming to places without it.
But others condemn the deals as neocolonial land grabs that destroy villages, uproot tens of thousands of farmers and create a volatile mass of landless poor. Making matters worse, they contend, much of the food is bound for wealthier nations.
''The food security of the country concerned must be first and foremost in everybody's mind,'' said Kofi Annan, the former United Nations secretary general, now working on the issue of African agriculture. ''Otherwise it is straightforward exploitation and it won't work. We have seen a scramble for Africa before. I don't think we want to see a second scramble of that kind.''
A World Bank study released in September tallied farmland deals covering at least 110 million acres -- the size of California and West Virginia combined -- announced during the first 11 months of 2009 alone. More than 70 percent of those deals were for land in Africa, with Sudan, Mozambique and Ethiopia among those nations transferring millions of acres to investors.
Before 2008, the global average for such deals was less than 10 million acres per year, the report said. But the food crisis that spring, which set off riots in at least a dozen countries, prompted the spree. The prospect of future scarcity attracted both wealthy governments lacking the arable land needed to feed their own people and hedge funds drawn to a dwindling commodity.
''You see interest in land acquisition continuing at a very high level,'' said Klaus Deininger, the World Bank economist who wrote the report, taking many figures from a Web site run by Grain, an advocacy organization, because governments would not reveal the agreements. ''Clearly, this is not over.''
The report, while generally supportive of the investments, detailed mixed results. Foreign aid for agriculture has dwindled from about 20 percent of all aid in 1980 to about 5 percent now, creating a need for other investment to bolster production.
But many investments appear to be pure speculation that leaves land fallow, the report found. Farmers have been displaced without compensation, land has been leased well below value, those evicted end up encroaching on parkland and the new ventures have created far fewer jobs than promised, it said.
The breathtaking scope of some deals galvanizes opponents. In Madagascar, a deal that would have handed over almost half the country's arable land to a South Korean conglomerate helped crystallize opposition to an already unpopular president and contributed to his overthrow in 2009.
People have been pushed off land in countries like Ethiopia, Uganda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Liberia and Zambia. It is not even uncommon for investors to arrive on land that was supposedly empty. In Mozambique, one investment company discovered an entire village with its own post office on what had been described as vacant land, said Olivier De Schutter, the United Nations food rapporteur.
In Mali, about three million acres along the Niger River and its inland delta are controlled by a state-run trust called the Office du Niger. In nearly 80 years, only 200,000 acres of the land have been irrigated, so the government considers new investors a boon.
''Even if you gave the population there the land, they do not have the means to develop it, nor does the state,'' said Abou Sow, the executive director of Office du Niger.
He listed countries whose governments or private sectors have already made investments or expressed interest: China and South Africa in sugar cane; Libya and Saudi Arabia in rice; and Canada, Belgium, France, South Korea, India, the Netherlands and multinational organizations like the West African Development Bank.
In all, Mr. Sow said about 60 deals covered at least 600,000 acres in Mali, although some organizations said more than 1.5 million acres had been committed. He argued that the bulk of the investors were Malians growing food for the domestic market. But he acknowledged that outside investors like the Libyans, who are leasing 250,000 acres here, are expected to ship their rice, beef and other agricultural products home.
''What advantage would they gain by investing in Mali if they could not even take their own production?'' Mr. Sow said.
As with many of the deals, the money Mali might earn from the leases remains murky. The agreement signed with the Libyans grants them the land for at least 50 years simply in exchange for developing it.
''The Libyans want to produce rice for Libyans, not for Malians,'' said Mamadou Goita, the director of a nonprofit research organization in Mali. He and other opponents contend that the government is privatizing a scarce national resource without improving the domestic food supply, and that politics, not economics, are driving events because Mali wants to improve ties with Libya and others.
The huge tracts granted to private investors are many years from production. But officials noted that Libya already spent more than $50 million building a 24-mile canal and road, constructed by a Chinese company, benefiting local villages.
Every farmer affected, Mr. Sow added, including as many as 20,000 affected by the Libyan project, will receive compensation. ''If they lose a single tree, we will pay them the value of that tree,'' he said.
But anger and distrust run high. In a rally last month, hundreds of farmers demanded that the government halt such deals until they get a voice. Several said that they had been beaten and jailed by soldiers, but that they were ready to die to keep their land.
''The famine will start very soon,'' shouted Ibrahima Coulibaly, the head of the coordinating committee for farmer organizations in Mali. ''If people do not stand up for their rights, they will lose everything!''
''Ante!'' members of the crowd shouted in Bamanankan, the local language. ''We refuse!''
Kassoum Denon, the regional head for the Office du Niger, accused the Malian opponents of being paid by Western groups that are ideologically opposed to large-scale farming.
''We are responsible for developing Mali,'' he said. ''If the civil society does not agree with the way we are doing it, they can go jump in a lake.''
The looming problem, experts noted, is that Mali remains an agrarian society. Kicking farmers off the land with no alternative livelihood risks flooding the capital, Bamako, with unemployed, rootless people who could become a political problem.
''The land is a natural resource that 70 percent of the population uses to survive,'' said Kalfa Sanogo, an economist at the United Nations Development Program in Mali. ''You cannot just push 70 percent of the population off the land, nor can you say they can just become agriculture workers.'' In a different approach, a $224 million American project will help about 800 Malian farmers each acquire title to 12 acres of newly cleared land, protecting them against being kicked off.
Jon C. Anderson, the project director, argued that no country has developed economically with a large percentage of its population on farms. Small farmers with titles will either succeed or have to sell the land to finance another life, he said, though critics have said villagers will still be displaced.
''We want a revolutionized relationship between the farmer and the state, one where the farmer is more in charge,'' Mr. Anderson said.
Soumouni sits about 20 miles from the nearest road, with wandering cattle herders in their distinctive pointed straw hats offering directions like, ''Bear right at the termite mound with the hole in it.''
Sekou Traore, 69, a village elder, was dumbfounded when government officials said last year that Libya now controlled his land and began measuring the fields. He had always considered it his own, passed down from grandfather to father to son.
''All we want before they break our houses and take our fields is for them to show us the new houses where we will live, and the new fields where we will work,'' he said at the rally last month.
''We are all so afraid,'' he said of the village's 2,229 residents. ''We will be the victims of this situation, we are sure of that.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 28, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about a rush by investors to acquire large expanses of arable land in poor developing countries such as Mali misspelled the given name of a United Nations Development Fund economist in Mali, who said such acquisitions threaten to displace a large percentage of the rural population. He is Kalfa Sanogo, not Kalfo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Beldenadji, Mali, a canal has been extended to irrigate land, part of an American aid initiative. (A1)
A fishing community along the Niger River in Mali. The government has welcomed investors who will use the river for irrigation.
 Sekou Traore, 69, is fearful of losing his house and land to a Libyan investment project in his village of Soumouni, Mali. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) MAPS: Deals for farmland have involved many African nations. (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (72%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); FOOD SECURITY (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MALI (94%); AFRICA (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); NIGER (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



619 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Home Builder Posts Quarterly Loss

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Hovnanian Enterprises, a home builder, reported a wider-than-expected quarterly loss as it grappled with soft demand amid higher unemployment and weakness in the housing markets. 
''The current housing market remains quite challenging,'' the chief executive, Ara K. Hovnanian, said. ''The combination of a lackluster job market and high foreclosure activity is clearly having a dampening effect on the housing market.''
Mr. Hovnanian said it lost $132.1 million, or $1.68 a share, compared with a net loss of $250.8 million, or $3.21 a share, a year earlier.
Analysts on average were expecting a loss of 66 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
Revenue in the period, which ended Oct. 31 and was the fourth quarter of Hovnanian's fiscal year, slumped 19.2 percent, to $353 million, missing the analysts' average estimate of $437.4 million.
New contracts, excluding unconsolidated joint ventures, fell 13 percent to 1,078 homes in a sign that demand will probably not pick up in the near term.
Based in Red Bank, N.J., Hovnanian builds single-family detached homes, townhouses and condominiums in 18 states.
Homebuilder confidence remains at record lows, according to the National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index, which put it at 16 in December.
A reading above 50 indicates that more builders view sales conditions as good than poor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (93%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (57%)

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (67%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%)

PERSON: ARA K HOVNANIAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



620 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: ConAgra Profit Declined 16% In 2nd Quarter

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Net income fell 16 percent at ConAgra Foods in its second fiscal quarter because the company struggled with higher commodity costs in a competitive market.
The company, based in Omaha, said on Tuesday that it expected to deliver better results in the second half of the year because it would raise prices and change its approach to better appeal to shoppers' new sensibilities. 
''We clearly understand that consumers are being more discriminating in their spending choices,'' the chief executive, Gary M. Rodkin, said Tuesday.
ConAgra initially benefited from the economic downturn because more people ate at home. But higher costs for ingredients and a tough selling environment have started to weigh on the food maker.
Food makers and retailers became increasingly aggressive in competing for shoppers' dollars and turned to heavy discounts and other promotions to push up sales. That strategy, however, can punish profits, particularly if consumers do not respond as expected.
ConAgra said it had suffered as shoppers changed their habits, making more quick trips to the store instead of stocking up, and showing less brand loyalty. This hurt ConAgra's sales because many of its brands -- like Wesson oils and Peter Pan peanut butter -- are products people can stock up on.
This just-in-time attitude and discounted prices made it difficult for ConAgra to sell enough to make up for its higher costs.
In turn, the company said it was looking to reduce its multipack offers to appeal to this just-in-time mind-set. And it is changing some of its marketing tactics to appeal to shoppers' new attitudes. It also is raising prices on some products to cope with increased costs.
The company earned $200.9 million, or 45 cents a share, for the second quarter -- meeting Wall Street's expectations. That was down from $239.7 million, or 53 cents a share, in the quarter a year ago.
Revenue rose 2 percent to $3.16 billion, topping the $3.13 billion that analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had forecast.
ConAgra said it planned to continue to cut costs and buy back shares in fiscal 2011. The company said it expected adjusted earnings to rise at a low-single-digit percentage rate from its 2010 earnings of $1.74 a share. Analysts predict $1.76 a share for 2011.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FOOD MFG (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); BRANDING (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BRAND EQUITY (67%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (65%); EXECUTIVES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (97%)

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (97%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (97%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (97%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (97%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (97%)

PERSON: GARY M RODKIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (73%) NEBRASKA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



621 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: After Months, Iraqi Lawmakers Approve a Government

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND and JACK HEALY; Duraid Adnan and Yasmine Mousa contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Iraq's Parliament approved a new government on Tuesday, ending nine months of infighting that threatened to throw the nation into a constitutional crisis but leaving many festering problems unresolved.
The delay in forming a government led to growing unemployment, worsening services and rising cynicism among voters who risked their lives to participate in the March election. But the new government rests on jury-rigged alliances that may make it too unwieldy to address Iraq's many problems, especially as American troops prepare to withdraw by the end of 2011.
As he did after the previous election in 2005, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki did not appoint heads for the ministries in charge of security, promising to do so later as he named himself as acting head of those posts.
Mr. Maliki told lawmakers he was ''very content'' -- even if he knew that they were not. 
''I do not need anybody to sugarcoat me,'' Mr. Maliki said. ''I have not satisfied anybody at all. Everybody is angry with me, and everybody is frustrated with me.''
With all major political parties and ethnic groups participating for the first time in an Iraqi government, the 325-member Parliament approved each of the 34 ministers proposed by Mr. Maliki.
But in a sign of the new government's fragility, one small party walked out, and several lawmakers -- mainly women, who received only one cabinet ministry -- protested the government's makeup.
Now, a nation with virtually no democratic track record and a history of sectarian warfare must figure a way to move forward with a government that comprises four major blocs -- two Shiite, one Sunni-backed and multi-sectarian, and one Kurdish -- each with a different agenda.
All parties said they wanted an inclusive government. But the resulting body may be ill suited for solving the country's problems, including poor security, lack of an oil policy, and tensions between Arabs and Kurds over some of the country's most oil-rich territories, said Reidar Visser, author of ''A Responsible End? The United States and the Iraqi Transition, 2005-2010.''
''The downside is that all the compromises have had a price -- lots of ministries that aren't really needed,'' Mr. Visser said. ''It's an open question whether the government will be able to decide on key legislation, which is really needed.''
Against predictions and despite a number of coordinated, deadly attacks that rattled the country, Iraq did not experience an overall rise in violence during the impasse.
In Washington, President Obamacalled the vote in Parliament a ''significant moment in Iraq's history'' and ''a clear rejection of the efforts by extremists to spur sectarian division.''
American officials said that the inclusion of Sunni officials in high-ranking posts reduced the chances that disaffected Sunnis would split off from the political process and resume sectarian warfare, as happened after Sunnis boycotted the election five years ago.
One Sunni politician whose ties to Saddam Hussein's Baath Party had barred him from holding office was appointed as one of three deputy prime ministers. The speaker of Parliament, a powerful position that drives the legislative agenda, is a Sunni. And Mr. Maliki, a religious Shiite, replaced the Shiite finance minister with a Sunni.
''This is a very good day for U.S. policy in Iraq,'' Christopher R. Hill, a former American ambassador in Baghdad, said in a telephone interview. ''Iraqis are not fond of giving Christmas presents, but I think they gave us one today.''
The relatively robust Sunni and Kurdish representation in the new government could help Mr. Maliki navigate one of the most immediate and vexing choices facing his new government: whether any of the 50,000 American troops now in Iraq will stay past a withdrawal deadline of December 2011.
American officials have said that the United States military would stay if asked, but until Tuesday, there had been no Iraqi government with the legal standing to make such a request.
Mr. Maliki has said he is committed to the American withdrawal, but Iraqi officials have privately cited the need for some sort of residual force.
Lawmakers aligned with the anti-American cleric Moktada al-Sadr are vehemently opposed to American forces here.
The Sadrists failed in a bid to secure a slot as deputy prime minister, a development that pleased American officials. But some say their involvement in the government also reduces chances of violence.
The new council of ministers includes 10 members of Iraqiya, the multi-sectarian, Sunni-backed bloc that finished slightly ahead of Mr. Maliki's in the March election, and 8 members of the Sadrist movement.
The agreement among seemingly irreconcilable forces is a testament to the political shrewdness of Mr. Maliki, whose re-election campaign finished second in the election with fewer than one-third of the seats. After this weak showing, he outflanked his rivals and formed alliances with former antagonists.
Critics consider Mr. Maliki an authoritarian who used the political process to consolidate his own power and neutralize his rivals.
''Authoritarian tendencies -- that's part of Iraqi political culture,'' said Ryan C. Crocker, former United States ambassador to Iraq and now dean of the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University. He said that Mr. Maliki had formed a broad enough coalition that he did not rely on any of his allies.
''If the Sadrists decide to walk at some point, Maliki can say, 'fine,' '' Mr. Crocker said. ''If Iraqiya pulls out, it won't force a vote of no confidence. He's got a lot of latitude. Some of the alliances may not hold up. And that may be O.K. with him.''
At Tuesday's session, a member of Iraqiya shouted, ''This is not democracy, this is not fair,'' but the Parliament speaker, Osama al-Nujaifi, who is also from Iraqiya, shouted him down. One Iraqiya lawmaker, Hassan al-Allawi, angry that he was not made minister of culture, criticized the bloc's leader and said that he expected 40 members to break off from the coalition and form an opposition in Parliament.
The new government held several significant smaller developments. In one, a sectarian Sunni became minister of education, succeeding a religious Shiite at the helm of a system that has become more religious since the fall of Mr. Hussein in 2003.
''There's a political agreement now to make books more general, not religious,'' said Mohamad Ali Tamim, the new minister.
Female lawmakers, and many male allies, protested that only one minor office, an unspecified ministry of state, went to a woman, Bushra Salah, even though Iraq's Constitution mandates that one-fourth of all parliamentary seats be held by women.
''It's not society -- society is much, much better than our leaders,'' said Safia al-Souheil, a lawmaker from Mr. Maliki's bloc, who openly criticized the prime minister for not doing more for women.
The female lawmakers refused the position of minister of women's affairs, because they felt they were being marginalized. The position went to a man, Hoshyar al-Zebari, who was also made foreign minister. His appointment as minister of women's affairs drew laughter from some lawmakers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki waited for cabinet members to arrive at Tuesday's Parliament session, at which his government was approved. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALI ABBAS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%); ETHNIC GROUPS (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (58%); ETHNICITY (51%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



622 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: With Eye on Risks, Bank of Japan Keeps Rates Low

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
TOKYO (Reuters) -- The Bank of Japan kept monetary policy unchanged on Tuesday, but noted weakening factory output and business sentiment in what markets saw as an assurance that it was aware of risks to growth that could require more easing. 
The governor of the Bank of Japan, Masaaki Shirakawa, apparently seeking to soothe jittery bond markets, said Tuesday that he would carefully examine how increases in Japanese yields could affect the economy, for example by causing losses on commercial banks' huge debt holdings.
But he stressed that Japanese bond yields were not rising as much as long-term rates in the Unites States and Europe and were merely taking a cue from American Treasuries.
''In Japan, long-term interest rates have not risen as rapidly as in developed countries in the West,'' Mr. Shirakawa told a news conference.
The central bank's decision to keep its rates at a range of zero to 0.1 percent had been widely anticipated.
With rising share prices and the yen's retreat from a 15-year high that was reached last month, analysts saw little reason for the bank to act again after easing policy just two months ago. At its October meeting, the central bank promised to keep interest rates effectively at zero until the end of deflation was in sight. It also set up a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) fund to buy assets ranging from government bonds to corporate debt.
Bank policy makers have also said that increasing the size of the fund would be a clear option if the anticipated slowdown proved deeper than expected.
Mr. Shirakawa stressed that the latest easing steps had been effective in pushing down longer-term money market rates, and stuck to his view that Japan's economy would resume a moderate recovery early next year after a brief lull.
The bank maintained its general view that Japan, the world's third-largest economy after the United States and China, was showing signs of moderate recovery, but toned down its language on output, saying it had declined slightly and was not ''moving sideways.'' The bank also warned that business sentiment had been ''somewhat weak,'' signaling that it saw its latest Tankan survey, an economic survey of Japanese businesses, as offering negative signals for the economy.
Recent increases in Japanese long-term interest rates have created a headache for the central bank, which aims to push down one- to two-year yields with the new asset-buying scheme.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); CORPORATE DEBT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



623 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Health Insurers to Be Required to Justify Rate Increases Over 10 Percent

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a move to protect consumers, the Obama administration said Tuesday that it would require health insurance companies to disclose and justify any rate increases of 10 percent or more next year.
State or federal officials will review such increases to determine if they are unreasonable, the administration said in proposing a regulation to enforce the requirement.
The proposed rule represents a major expansion of federal authority in an area long regulated by states. 
Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, said the reviews would ''help rein in the kind of excessive and unreasonable rate increases that have made insurance unaffordable for many families.''
The new health care law, signed in March by President Obama, calls for the annual review of ''unreasonable increases in premiums for health insurance coverage.''
The law did not define unreasonable -- a gap the administration is now trying to fill.
Under the rule issued Tuesday, insurers seeking increases of 10 percent or more in the individual or small-group market next year must publicly disclose the planned increases and the justifications for them.
In recent years, individual and small-group premiums have been rising more than 10 percent a year, on average, and many increases far exceed national measures of medical cost inflation, federal officials said.
The 10 percent threshold may change in later years. Starting in 2012, the federal government will set a threshold for each state, reflecting trends in its insurance and medical costs.
Consumer advocates welcomed the rules as a way to hold insurers accountable for skyrocketing premiums. In the last year, they noted, state officials in California and Connecticut, among other states, have denied big rate increases sought by some insurers.
It was not immediately clear whether the rule would help insurers hold down costs.
Karen M. Ignagni, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said that in their zeal to review premiums, ''the administration and Congress have largely ignored factors driving up the cost of coverage.''
These factors, Ms. Ignagni said, include the power of doctors and hospitals to negotiate higher reimbursement rates, new benefit mandates and the tendency of younger, healthier people to drop coverage, leaving sicker people in the insurance pool.
Under the proposed regulation, the federal government will assess each state's procedures for reviewing insurance rates. If it finds that a state has an ''effective rate review system,'' the state would conduct the annual reviews of premium increases. But, the administration said, ''if a state lacks the resources or authority to do thorough actuarial reviews, the Department of Health and Human Services would do them.''
Thus, it said, ''all rate increases that meet or exceed the 10 percent threshold would be reviewed.''
The department will post information about the results of all rate reviews on its Web site, and insurers must post the data prominently on their Web sites.
States are beefing up their ability to review rates, with the help of $46 million in federal grants -- the first installment of $250 million that will be distributed over five years.
Under the new federal law, insurers that show ''a pattern or practice of excessive or unjustified premium increases'' can be excluded from the centralized insurance market, or exchange, to be set up in each state by 2014.
Ms. Sebelius, a former Kansas insurance commissioner, said that shining a spotlight on rates would discourage exorbitant increases.
State officials have repeatedly said that premiums must be not only affordable to consumers, but also adequate to guarantee the solvency of insurance companies.
''From a consumer protection standpoint, the most important thing we do is ensure the solvency of companies,'' said Sandy Praeger, the Kansas insurance commissioner and chairwoman of the health committee of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
''Closer scrutiny can help hold down rates,'' Ms. Praeger said, ''but it will not control costs resulting from the overuse or inappropriate use of health care.''
Jay Angoff, the director of the federal Office of Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight, said, ''We are not setting an absolute numerical standard for whether a rate is unreasonable.'' Instead, the proposed rule lays out factors to be considered.
Under the proposal, a rate increase will be considered unreasonable if it is excessive, unjustified or ''unfairly discriminatory.''
A rate increase is defined as excessive if it ''causes the premium charged for the health insurance coverage to be unreasonably high in relation to the benefits provided.''
The rule envisions a two-step review process. An insurer must file a ''preliminary justification'' for an increase of 10 percent or more in the rates for any products sold to individuals or small groups. If state or federal officials find the increase unreasonable, the carrier must then file a final justification.
To justify rate increases, insurers will have to submit data on claims experience, projected medical costs, executive compensation and many other factors.
''The statute does not give us authority to disapprove rates,'' Mr. Angoff said. ''We do not have that authority. The regulation leaves state laws intact. It does not interfere with state law.''
In some states, rates cannot be put into effect unless the state affirmatively approves them. In other states, insurers must file rates with a state agency before using them, but the state does not approve or disapprove them.
Whether an insurer can carry out a particular rate increase ''is entirely a matter of state law,'' the rule says.
Moreover, Ms. Sebelius said, ''there may be rates well above 10 percent that are justified by underlying cost trends.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Karen Ignagni, above, president of the trade group America's Health Insurance Plans, and Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary, differ on the new requirement. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); TRENDS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); WEB SITES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



624 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Adds to Iran Sanctions Shortly After Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Tuesday imposed new sanctions on Iran, serving notice that it will not ease the pressure on Tehran just because it has begun talking again with the West about its nuclear program.
The measures announced by the Treasury Department -- aimed at three companies linked to the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps and at Iran's national shipping line -- are less important than the timing. They come two weeks after Iran held chilly talks in Geneva with the United States and other countries, which accomplished little beyond an agreement to meet again in Istanbul in late January.
The tightening of the economic vise reflects the administration's conviction that its pressure tactics are inflicting genuine pain on Iran. It said five Iranian ships had been seized in Singapore and other ports after the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines defaulted on more than $500 million in debt. 
The announcement of new sanctions, officials said, would also frustrate efforts by Iran's government to use the prospect of further dialogue to persuade less aggressive countries to water down existing measures.
''After the Geneva talks, there was a question: 'What is the policy of the United States and its allies going to be?' '' said Stuart A. Levey, the under secretary of the Treasury for terrorism and financial intelligence. ''It is clear that our policy is going to be to continue to impose pressure on Iran, so long as it defies its international obligations.''
The latest sanctions continue to take aim at the Revolutionary Guards, which the United States contends has taken over large sections of the Iranian economy and oversees Iran's nuclear program.
The Treasury designated a foundation that handles the Revolutionary Guards' investments, as well as two affiliated banks, Ansar Bank and Mehr Bank. It also designated the Moallem Insurance Company, a Tehran company that began insuring Iranian ships after they could no longer buy insurance from London-based maritime insurers.
Iran has tried to evade sanctions by creating front companies and renaming or reflagging its ships. But the lack of insurance, along with a cutoff in letters of credit and other financial services, has raised the debt burden on the national shipping line, making its ships vulnerable to seizure when they enter ports.
''All of a sudden, they have to think when they dock at any port, is this going to be safe for us?'' said Adam J. Szubin, the director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a Treasury office that enforces economic and trade sanctions. ''Today's action, we expect, will compound those troubles.''
In the last two months, Mr. Szubin said, the Iranian shipping line defaulted on more than $500 million in loans. The five ships seized by creditors are part of a fleet of about 140. Three Iranian container ships, registered in Germany, were seized in Singapore, where they were to be auctioned off until their owners won a court stay.
There is mounting evidence that Iran's leaders are alarmed about the sanctions, Mr. Levey said. The country has been unable to attract foreign investors to develop its oil and gas fields, and is having trouble importing refined fuel.
Publicly, Iranian officials have continued to sound defiant, saying in Geneva that they would not discuss uranium enrichment or other nuclear activities at the next meeting in Istanbul. The government has also proceeded with plans to reduce subsidies on gasoline and other basic goods, despite fears of unrest.
But American officials say the subsidies have confronted Iran with an unappealing choice: leave gasoline prices unchanged and risk having demand outstrip supply, or allow prices to soar and risk having people protest in the streets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); INSURANCE (85%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (76%); OCEAN MARINE INSURANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); RELIGION (71%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES (84%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (57%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); IRAN (90%); TURKEY (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



625 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Again Opts for the Unexpected: Restraint

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER and MARK McDONALD

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- A day after North Korea backed off threats of violent retaliation for South Korean artillery drills, analysts and policy makers in Seoul said Tuesday that the North's unexpected restraint might signal, at least for now, that the North Koreans were shifting away from recent military provocations.
North Korea had vowed retaliation if South Korea went ahead with its planned live-fire drills on Yeonpyeong Island, where a North Korean artillery barrage last month killed two South Korean soldiers and two civilians. But when the South defied those threats and held a 94-minute drill on Monday, the North's official news agency reversed itself by saying it was ''not worth reacting'' to the exercises.
Political analysts could only speculate about the sudden change in tone by North Korea, one of the world's most closed and secretive societies. They said that a visit to North Korea by an unofficial American envoy, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, that came at the same time might have helped. Indeed, the North seemed to offer Mr. Richardson an olive branch with its willingness to allow United Nations inspectors back in to monitor its nuclear program. 
''I do commend the South Korean government for their restraint, for their legitimacy in pursuing this military drill,'' Mr. Richardson told reporters in Beijing on Tuesday. ''And I commend the North Korean leadership for not retaliating.''
Most political analysts in Seoul said it was most likely that the North had decided to bide its time while waiting to see whether its attack last month would press South Korea and the United States into talks, and possibly even concessions. They said this was a recurring pattern in the North's unique brand of brinkmanship: making a provocation in hopes of forcing the other side to negotiate.
Despite North Korea's propaganda of proud independence, Korea watchers noted that the country was desperate to obtain food aid from the South, especially with the hard winter months ahead, and possibly even win security guarantees from Washington as the North's ailing leader, Kim Jong-il, tries to engineer the succession of his untested third son, Kim Jong-un.
''North Korea was thinking very strategically,'' said Yang Moo-jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul. ''I think they are trying to create the mood for dialogue.''
South Korea had defiantly pushed forward with the drills, despite warnings that they might cause an escalation and calls by China and Russia to cancel them. By refusing to bite at what appeared to be a military challenge by the South, the North was perhaps hoping to cast itself as the more reasonable of the Koreas, particularly in the eyes of its traditional backers in Beijing and Moscow, some analysts said.
The North's restraint may be tested again this week. The South Korean Army and Air Force plan a military drill on the mainland near the border between the two countries on Thursday, The Associated Press reported. The training, while routine, will involve a larger than normal number of troops and weapons, The A.P. reported.
Some analysts have suggested the North might be trying to repair its image among the South Korean public, which reacted with outrage to the civilian deaths on Yeonpyeong. Some analysts said the North played a sometimes sophisticated game of wooing public opinion in the South, aimed at winning support for economic aid and other engagement policies.
''The world should properly know who is the true champion of peace and who is the real provocateur of a war,'' the North's news agency said Monday.
Still, it is unclear how much success the North's strategy will have, particularly in bringing its opponents back to negotiations. The United States has refused to engage in bilateral talks with the North, insisting that all dialogue take place within the six-nation process that also includes China, Japan, Russia and South Korea. But the United States, Japan and South Korea have also rejected recent calls by the other three nations for an emergency restart of the talks without signs that the North is willing to dismantle its nuclear program, something it appears unwilling to do.
Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said: ''When and if the North Koreans are ever serious about living up to their obligations, then we can think about restarting six-party talks.
''But the belligerent actions that the North Koreans have demonstrated over the past many weeks I don't think provide anybody the confidence that they're even remotely ready to resume in a responsible way those talks.''
If the North feels that South Korea and the United States are still giving it the cold shoulder, then it could strike again. Analysts said the strike was almost certain to be unpredictable and unconventional.
That was true of last month's shelling, which South Korean officials said surprised them because they had not expected an attack on civilian areas. ''Their provocations are beyond our imaginations,'' said Gen. Han Min-koo, chairman of South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Analysts say these provocations reflect the increasing desperation of the Communist North, which needs the resumption of aid shipments from the wealthier, capitalist South to prop up its impoverished state-run economy.
South Korean aid has trickled nearly to a halt under President Lee Myung-bak, who came to power three years ago with the demand that the North reciprocate by ending its nuclear weapons program. North Korea angrily refused and began a series of provocations that included the sinking in March of a South Korean warship that killed 46 sailors (for which the North has denied responsibility), last month's shelling of Yeonpyeong and the recent revelation of an expanded uranium-enrichment program at its Yongbyon complex.
Some analysts said the North also sought a peace treaty with the United States that would recognize the government's right to exist. Neither the United States nor the Koreas signed a peace treaty to formally end the Korean War, which came to a halt with a cease-fire.
''North Korea has specific reasons for negotiations, and Kim Jong-il is seeking the end of hostilities with the United States, recognition of his government and the survival of his regime,'' said Chung Dong-young, an opposition South Korean lawmaker. Some political analysts said it might also be tough for Mr. Lee's government to make concessions to the North after the president faced such withering public criticism for what has been seen here as weak responses to the shelling of Yeonpyeong and the sinking of the South Korean warship, the Cheonan.
''The Cheonan and Yeonpyeong Island changed public opinion,'' said Song Dae-sung, president of the Sejong Institute, a private research group. ''The people want a harder line toward North Korea.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: South Koreans sang hymns on Tuesday after decorating a tower with Christmas lights near the border with North Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JO YONG-HAK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); CHRISTMAS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (78%); BILL RICHARDSON (77%); KIM JONG UN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



626 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: New York Accuses Ernst & Young of Fraud in Lehman Collapse

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
6:23 p.m. Updated The New York attorney general on Tuesday sued Ernst & Young, accusing the accounting firm of helping Lehman Brothers, its client, ''engage in a massive accounting fraud'' by misleading investors about the investment bank's financial health.
The lawsuit, filed more than two years after Lehman collapsed and the global economy buckled, is the first major legal action stemming from Lehman's demise.Ernst & Young, Lehman's longtime outside auditor, certified the bank's financial statements from 2001 until it filed for bankruptcy in September 2008. The suit focuses on Ernst & Young's approval of a much-criticized accounting maneuver that shifted debt off the books before the close of financial quarters. 
The transactions involved ''the surreptitious removal of tens of billions of dollars of securities from Lehman's balance sheet to create a false impression of Lehman's liquidity, thereby defrauding the investing public,'' the complaint said. The lawsuit seeks the return of more than $150 million in fees that Ernst & Young collected for work performed for Lehman from 2001 to 2008, plus investor damages. Among the world's largest accounting firms - and one of the Big Four auditors - Ernst & Young audits the financial statements of many of the world's largest corporations, including Coca-Cola and Google.
In a statement, Ernst & Young denied the lawsuit's claims. ''There is no factual or legal basis for a claim to be brought against an auditor'' when the transactions at issue followed generally accepted accounting standards, the firm said.
''Lehman's audited financial statements clearly portrayed Lehman as a highly leveraged entity operating in a risky and volatile industry,'' it added. With just 10 days left as the attorney general of New York, Andrew M. Cuomo, the governor-elect, will hand off the lawsuit to Eric T. Schneiderman, who is succeeding him.
Mr. Schneiderman and his yet-to-be-announced legal team will have to bone up on an accounting maneuver known inside Lehman as Repo 105.
This tactic temporarily removed as much as $50 billion of assets from Lehman's balance sheet to give the appearance that the firm had reduced its debt levels. It often did this just before the end of a financial quarter, the lawsuit said.
''This practice was a house-of-cards business model designed to hide billions in liabilities in the years before Lehman collapsed,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement. ''Just as troubling, a global accounting firm, tasked with auditing Lehman's financial statements, helped hide this crucial information from the investing public.''
The 32-page complaint, filed in New York Supreme Court, follows the contours of the claims made in a 2,200-page report by a bankruptcy court examiner, Anton R. Valukas, a lawyer. The attorney general's investigation of Ernst & Young began after the release of the report in March.
''As we said in the report and as I testified before Congress, we believe that the underlying facts of the report would support charges against E.&Y., but it was up to the government to decide whether they would bring them,'' Mr. Valukas said on Tuesday.
The New York lawsuit could spur other regulators to act. Both the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission have been investigating the demise of Lehman but have not filed charges against any of the firm's executives.
Repo 105, the transaction at issue, was a variation on a corporate finance tool used by every Wall Street bank. In such a transaction, known as a repurchase and sale, or ''repo,'' agreement, an investment bank like Lehman would typically raise cash by selling assets and buying them back a few days later.
But in the case of the Repo 105 transactions, Lehman moved assets that represented 105 percent or more of the cash it raised, which it claimed that it could treat as a ''sale'' rather than a ''financing'' under accounting rules.
Ernst & Young approved Lehman's Repo 105 transactions, the lawsuit said. ''We believed their conclusions were acceptable under the accounting literature,'' Kevin Reilly, the Ernst & Young partner at one point in charge of the Lehman work, said in a deposition with the attorney general.
The attorney's general lawsuit, however, asserted that the transactions were nothing more than accounting sleight of hand.
''These Repo 105 transactions had no independent business purpose and were designed solely to enable Lehman to manage the company's financial balance sheet 'metrics,''' the lawsuit said.
To execute Repo 105 agreements, Lehman also needed legal opinion that the transaction could be treated as a ''sale'' rather than as a ''financing,'' the lawsuit said.
Because it couldn't get the opinion in the United States, the suit said the firm approached Linklaters, a British law firm, to seek an opinion under English law. Linklaters issued an opinion that Lehman could characterize the Repo 105 transactions as a ''sale'' but that the transactions had to be executed in Britain.
''Armed with the Linklaters letter,'' Lehman transferred securities to banks in Britain to execute the Repo 105 transactions, according to the lawsuit.
Lehman aggressively ramped up its use of Repo 105 transactions in the year before it collapsed, the attorney general contends. Because the investment bank was saddled with billions of dollars of hard-to-sell soured mortgages and real estate assets on its books, Repo 105 gave Lehman a way to improve the appearance of its balance sheet.
A Lehman document from February 2007 said, ''Repo 105 offers a low-cost way to offset the balance sheet and leverage impact of current market conditions,'' according to the lawsuit.
It also detailed how Lehman's use of these transactions more than doubled to $50.4 billion in May 2008, from about $24 billion at the end of 2006. At least one Ernst & Young auditor grew concerned over the firm's use of Repo 105, according to the lawsuit. In 2006, Bharat Jain, an Ernst & Young auditor on the Lehman account, noted to his manager that he would ''like to know what is our thought process behind how much of these Lehman should do from reputational risk, etc., perspective. Are we comparing to other competitors, are we referring to any industry publications, any regulatory guidance, etc.?''
Mr. Jain's manager told him that she would raise the issue of ''reputational risk'' with the senior Ernst & Young partner on the account, but that conversation appears never to have taken place, according to the suit.
Mr. Cuomo's lawsuit was brought under the Martin Act, a 1921 New York state law that gives the attorney general broad powers to pursue financial corruption. The controversial law has been aggressively employed by Mr. Cuomo and his predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, in bringing cases against Wall Street firms and their executives.
Cuomo Lawsuit Against Ernst & Young
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, left, will hand off his lawsuit against Ernst & Young to his successor, Eric T. Schneiderman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); AUDITS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); GOVERNORS (57%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); ERNST & YOUNG LLP (92%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (91%); GOOGLE INC (54%); COCA-COLA CO (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010



627 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Museums Should Dig In

BYLINE: By BERNARD FRISCHER. 
Bernard Frischer, a professor of archaeology and classics, is the director of the Virtual World Heritage Laboratory at the University of Virginia.

 BODY:
Rome
THIS year saw the end of the five-year-long trial here of Marion True, a former antiquities curator of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles. The case against her -- for the purchase of art allegedly looted from Italy -- petered out inconclusively when the Italian statute of limitations expired.
The Getty is hardly the only American institution to be accused of buying art of dubious origin. In recent years, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and the Princeton University Art Museum have all returned contested works of art to the Italian authorities.
Even when museums have the best of intentions, some of the works they buy have passed through the hands of underground suppliers. It's hard for museums to avoid the black market partly because there is so little legitimate excavation going on that can yield new finds. Illicit trade in antiquities, therefore, drives prices up and encourages looters to raid unprotected sites. 
Sadly, when an object is taken from its original site without documentation, context is lost. And in archaeology, context is everything: it tells us an object's age, its likely place of manufacture and its everyday use. This lack of information makes it harder for collectors to determine if an object is fake, while even authentic works, in the absence of the context of their discovery, become mute witnesses to our irresponsible acquisitiveness.
But there is one thing museums could do that would put looters and smugglers out of business while uncovering more of the world's cultural treasures at far lower cost: excavate archaeological sites themselves.
Today this might seem a strange idea, but it's exactly what museums like the Louvre and the British Museum did in the 19th century. They simply sent out expeditions to excavate archaeological sites in the Mediterranean and Near East, bringing back whatever they wished for their collections.
Of course, back then there was no distinction between possession and ownership, and many countries lost significant pieces of their heritage as a result. Eventually, museums could no longer act this way. In Italy, for example, a law passed in 1909 subjected all archaeological finds to government regulation, while later laws made new finds the property of the state.
So today's museums can't, and shouldn't, go back to the 19th-century model. But they could create partnerships with the states where we know these promising archaeological sites exist to sponsor excavations and to help provide proper scientific oversight when artifacts are unearthed.
I first enunciated this argument nearly 25 years ago, in a conversation with the very same Marion True. When I heard the news about her case, I couldn't help remembering that day.
At the time, I was chairman of the classics department at the University of California, Los Angeles, which had been invited by the Italian government to reopen the excavation of the Villa of the Papyri in Herculaneum, buried by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 A.D. The site hadn't been explored since the mid-18th century, when a partial excavation yielded many important works of art and more than 1,800 papyrus texts, and there was undoubtedly more to be found. The only problem was that the estimated budget was $20 million, far beyond what my department could afford.
Right away I thought of the Getty. It had the money and, I hoped, the interest: after all, one of the first museums J. Paul Getty built, called the Getty Villa, is a copy of that same Herculanean villa. So I met with Ms. True, then a junior curator, to suggest that the Getty sponsor the dig. She quickly rejected my idea -- it would violate museum policy, she said, to have anything to do with an excavation. If anything were stolen from the site, the museum would be the natural target of the authorities' suspicions. Some years later, the Italian government moved forward with another partial excavation of the villa.
In all the years since, to my knowledge, no American museums have tried that kind of partnership. But it made sense then, and it still makes sense now. Excavation is the lifeblood of archaeology. Without it, museums can only recycle exhibitions of well-known masterpieces. And despite two centuries of digging, much more remains to be discovered than has yet been found.
If only ownership could be separated from possession, then museums might strike a deal with countries like Greece and Italy. Here's how it would work: The countries of origin would own anything that was excavated there and keep most of the finds on display in local partnering museums. But the museum that sponsored the dig would be allowed to borrow a percentage of the finds and exhibit them in America. Eventually, all the finds from a site would be exchanged on a rotating basis between the country of origin and the museum, which would pay the expenses and insurance.
Even individual collectors could invest and participate in the exchanges, if they were trained to care for the finds on temporary loan to them. Someday, investors or their heirs could sell these shares at auctions and galleries, just like works of art. In this way, all the stakeholders in today's antiquities market could be part of the new deal.
Where should museums and investors begin? Well, there's the tomb of Antiochus of Commagene at Mount Nemrut in southeast Turkey. The location of the giant burial mound is well known, but no one has had the money to find the king's tomb within it. A deal with the Turkish government to finally excavate the chamber could yield invaluable information on the interactions of Persian, Greek and Roman cultures in the second and first centuries B.C. Then there's the Temple of the Divine Augustus in Rome. Here, too, the site's likely location (under a street next to the Forum) is known, and ancient sources suggest that the monument was spectacular in design and decor.
Farther afield one could add Pataliputra in India, reputed to be the most populous city in the world in the third century B.C.; or the tomb of Qin Shi Huang, China's first emperor, who died in 210 B.C. Qin erected thousands of realistic terra-cotta statues of soldiers around his tomb; these Xi'an Warriors have been famous since they were first discovered in 1974. But the excavations have thus far touched only a small, peripheral part of the site. The emperor's enormous mausoleum has been located but not yet explored. We probably wouldn't find everything that ancient sources say is buried inside -- cross-bow booby traps, model palaces and 100 small rivers flowing with mercury. But we would find plenty. Even the famous Pompeii remains a mystery, with a third of the city still underground.
Finds from these sites and the scores more like them around the world have filled many rooms in our museums and have contributed enormously to our understanding of everyday life in antiquity, yet we have much more to learn. It's been 25 years since my conversation with Marion True, but Pompeii and Pataliputra have been waiting far longer. It's not too late for museums to start digging.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); CLASSICS (79%); SMUGGLING (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); PRICE INCREASES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); ROME, ITALY (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



628 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Home-Stretch Buying Lifts Merchants' Spirits

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD; Karen Ann Cullotta and Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The last-minute holiday surge is heralding the return of the American consumer, who is shedding the recession's thrifty ways and rediscovering the pleasure of shopping.
The malls are jammed, parking lots snarled and sales expected to stay strong in the few remaining days before Christmas.
With new figures showing in-store sales up 5.5 percent on the final weekend before Christmas compared with last year, this holiday season is on track to be the healthiest since 2006.
Separately, online shopping has been fueling growth in total sales, while spending in stores on this Thursday alone may rival the levels reached the Friday after Thanksgiving.
And Christmas Eve still beckons the procrastinators. Of those with the majority of their shopping left to do, about 10 percent plan to be in stores on Friday, one survey suggests. 
From the Pacific Northwest to New Jersey, a few consumers rushing in and out of the mall madness this week gave the sense that a healing economy meant it was fine to splurge a little bit.
''The air alone makes me want to shop,'' said Michaya Pollard, 29, who had accompanied her children's elementary school to Westlake Center mall in downtown Seattle to see the Christmas decorations.
After a particularly good year at the barber shop and salons that she owns, Ms. Pollard said she had spent several hours over the weekend buying extra gifts like a Coach bag for her sister. ''I didn't plan on spending more this year,'' she said, but ''I'm excited about their faces on Christmas day.''
Some women's apparel items were sold out, bolstering the notion that women were buying for themselves again. A Patagonia white-fleece jacket in medium was available only at a store in tropical Honolulu, while an Anthropologie sweater coat decorated with poppies was out of stock at the company's online store but available on eBay at a huge markup.
Retailers have begun to change their approach to the holiday season after two years in which they have had to mark down items as Christmas neared. Retailers now manage their inventory better across sectors like women's apparel, for instance, and avoid the last-minute price-slashing of Christmases past.
''Retailers have become much better at playing this game,'' Sherif Mityas, a partner in the retail practice of the consulting firm A. T. Kearney, said in an e-mail.
Still, promotions were heavy, with Lord & Taylor offering 20 percent off almost the entire store, and Kohl's giving its Kohl's cardholders 15 to 30 percent off all purchases.
Many stores were running low on inventory, which was actually a good thing for the retailers, Mr. Mityas said.
''Retailers have learned painful lessons around the balance of inventory, versus margin-crushing fire sales the last days before Christmas,'' he said.
''Getting more consumers to pay higher prices earlier in the holiday season in fear of missing out on certain items at the last minute will serve retailers well in subsequent holiday seasons.''
The recession forced stores to regroup after a dismal holiday year in 2008, and one that showed just slight improvement last year.
According to the International Council of Shopping Centers, which tracks sales at chain stores open at least a year, November and December sales rose 1.1 percent in 2007, then declined 5.6 percent in 2008 and rose 2.3 percent in 2009.
This year, the council has already revised its estimates upward, and now expects chain store sales to rise 3.5 to 4 percent. That would rival prerecession spending levels, and be the biggest increase in holiday spending since 2006.
ShopperTrak, which estimates total retail sales, said on Wednesday that dollars spent this last weekend had risen 5.5 percent, to $18.83 billion, from last year, while traffic increased 3 percent.
As for the online shopping, which has outpaced in-store sales this year, the marketing research company comScore indicated that online sales increased 12 percent in the first 49 days of the holiday season, to $28.36 billion, compared with the same period last year.
Over all, apparel sales were strong, up 9.8 percent from Oct. 31 to Dec. 11 compared with last year, according to MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, which tracks all forms of payment, including cash and check.
Michael McNamara, vice president for research and analysis at SpendingPulse, noted that women's apparel was up about 4.4 percent in the early holiday shopping season. ''They're perking up even since Black Friday a little bit -- it's the most positive season we've seen there since 2007,'' he said. ''Women are starting to buy for themselves again.''
Other stores, including J. Crew and a few teenage-oriented retailers, appeared to have ordered too much and were trying to adjust, said John D. Morris, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets. J. Crew, for instance, has been resorting to offers that give 25 or 30 percent off the entire store.
''Not all retailers are crossing the finish line in fighting shape,'' Mr. Morris said in an e-mail.
Bargain hunters were present on Tuesday night, as security guards at the Woodfield Mall in suburban Chicago were frantically directing traffic in a packed parking lot with pea soup fog. Inside, shoppers were looking at markdowns that ranged from 30 to 70 percent off at stores like Express, H&M and Justice.
''Wow! That's a good deal,'' said Mihwa Thick, 22, a student from Elgin, Ill., who was browsing the 50 percent off rack at H&M, looking for a coat for her sister. ''I was at the mall on Black Friday, and there's definitely a lot more sales today.''
Because of price cuts, electronics was one of the more troubled categories, according to SpendingPulse. Sales there were up just 0.4 of a percent compared with a year ago for the first part of the holiday season.
''A big area there is the fact that TV prices are down so much -- there's basically an inventory problem,'' Mr. McNamara said.
While electronics stores had attracted shoppers, almost all of them were there for the bargain prices.
Stan Chan, 26, said the low television prices at the Best Buy in Secaucus, N.J., lured him in, but he wanted even bigger discounts.
''I'm looking for a big TV and the prices are a little cheaper this year,'' he said. ''But I'm going to wait to see if they go any lower -- I'm probably going to wait until after the new year comes to get one.''
And Ron Ferguson, 44, said he was impressed with the Sony 23-inch model that was selling for $399.
''I find it shocking I could buy a TV for that price,'' he said. ''As a gift, you can't beat that price, as far as I'm concerned.''
With those prices, he said, he was startled that so many televisions were still in stock.
''I'm seeing a trend, if something isn't on sale, people aren't buying,'' he said. ''I think people just expect sales now.''
As the evening rolled on Tuesday in the Woodfield Mall, brothers Ed and Jeff Kolozsy were increasing their Christmas spending.
''This is the first minute of my last-minute shopping,'' said Jeff Kolozsy, 53, a vice president for a manufacturing company. Mr. Kolozsy said the recent improvement in the economy had been great for business, and he had been too busy meeting orders to start buying gifts.
Ed Kolozsy, 64, who arrived at the mall fresh from a trip to a water park with his daughter and grandchildren, said his work at an environmental health and safety company had also been rewarding this season.
''Things are great at work,'' he said. ''I spent a lot more on Christmas presents this year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Early figures show this holiday shopping season is the healthiest since 2006. A weary shopper, right, at Macy's in Herald Square in Manhattan on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Shoppers said they were spending more this season than they anticipated, bolstering sales at places like this Nike store. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); THANKSGIVING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (68%); PRICE CUTTING (60%)

COMPANY: MORI SEIKI (UK) LTD (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



629 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: The Senate Surmounts Politics

 BODY:
Wednesday was not a good day for Senator Mitch McConnell's single-minded project to make Barack Obama a one-term president. Over the minority leader's objections, 13 Republicans joined every Democratic senator to ratify the New Start nuclear arms treaty with Russia, reducing the size of the countries' nuclear stockpiles and making the world a safer place. The 71-to-26 vote was the capstone to what now shapes up to be a remarkably successful legislative agenda for President Obama's first two years.
Earlier in the day, the president signed a bill allowing the repeal of the military's ban on open service by gay, lesbian and bisexual soldiers -- a bill passed with the assistance of 23 Congressional Republicans, again over the objections of Mr. McConnell. 
And the Senate unanimously approved a bill to pay for the medical care of workers who cleaned up ground zero after the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, coming to its senses after Mr. McConnell and other Republicans blocked the bill 13 days earlier, causing a national uproar.
(Unfortunately, the bill was scaled back substantially by the demands of a few holdout senators who thought it was too generous, though it added nothing to the deficit. The bill was later approved by the House.)
These deeply gratifying developments hardly spell the end of partisanship, which is likely to return with a vengeance in the next Congress. But they do suggest that many Republicans are willing to reject Mr. McConnell's particularly noxious version, under which any bill, no matter how beneficial for the country, can be blown up if it could be seen as a victory for President Obama. On Tuesday, to pick one shabby example, he made a thoroughly underhanded attempt to sabotage the repeal of ''don't ask, don't tell'' when he thought no one was looking.
In a more rational world, of course, the ratification of New Start could have been done by unanimous consent. Though the treaty is vital, it makes relatively modest reductions in the nuclear stockpile and continues the inspection regime employed by Democratic and Republican presidents going back to Ronald Reagan. If the same document had been signed by a Republican president, it would have been approved months ago.
In the obstructionist climate of the 111th Congress, the ratification could be done only in the last hours. Mr. McConnell and his allies, notably Jon Kyl of Arizona, put up a series of specious arguments to delay it, mostly centering around a fiction: that the treaty would prevent the United States from erecting a missile defense system. Their efforts backfired, making Mr. Obama's victory ring more loudly that it should have.
Thirteen Republicans wouldn't buy that nonsense, and others saw the wisdom in letting all Americans serve their country honestly and openly. Those defeats and others infuriated the party's dead-enders. ''Harry Reid has eaten our lunch,'' complained Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who voted against both measures, referring to the majority leader.
There were disappointments in the lame-duck session, and Mr. Obama said at a news conference that the biggest was probably the Republicans' killing of the Dream Act, which would have given the children of illegal immigrants a chance at being legal if they serve in the military or attend college. The failure of the Senate to pass a spending bill for the current fiscal year means that the budget fights in the next term will be deeper and longer, and potentially more destructive to the economy.
Mr. McConnell won those fights. But to be repudiated on the treaty and on ''don't ask'' by so many members of his own caucus clearly stung, and turned him into a very sore loser. On Tuesday, Mr. McConnell tried to sneak an amendment into the defense authorization bill that would require the approval of each military service chief before ''don't ask, don't tell'' could be repealed. Given the continuing reservations of the Marine Corps, that could have stalled progress indefinitely. But Joseph Lieberman objected to the amendment, and it was defused.
Next term, there will be many more Republicans in Congress spoiling for a fight, and the White House will have to be far more pugnacious and adept to preserve its priorities and avoid trickery and extortion. But this week's examples of Democrats and Republicans coming together for a common purpose will not soon be forgotten. As the president said on Wednesday, if that continues, ''we are not doomed to endless gridlock.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JON KYL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



630 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Congress Passes 9/11 Health Bill After Cost Is Cut

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting from Washington, and Mireya Navarro from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After years of fierce lobbying and debate, Congress approved a bill on Wednesday to cover the cost of medical care for rescue workers and others who became sick from toxic fumes, dust and smoke after the 2001 attack on the World Trade Center.
The $4.3 billion bill cleared its biggest hurdle early in the afternoon when the Senate unexpectedly approved it just 12 days after Republican senators had blocked a more expensive House version from coming to the floor of the Senate for a vote.
In recent days, Republican senators had been under fire for their opposition to the legislation.
The House quickly passed the Senate bill a few hours later, as was widely expected. The vote was 206 to 60, breaking down largely along party lines. The White House said President Obama would sign the bill into law. 
After the Senate vote, a celebration broke out in a room in the Capitol that was packed with emergency workers and 9/11 families, as well as the two senators from New York, Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand, and the two senators from New Jersey, Frank R. Lautenberg and Robert Menendez. The senators, all Democrats, were greeted with a huge ovation and repeated chants of ''U.S.A.! U.S.A.!''
Mr. Schumer, the state's senior senator, allowed Ms. Gillibrand to address the group first, in apparent deference to the role she took in the Senate on the 9/11 legislation.
''Our Christmas miracle has arrived,'' she said to applause and cheers.
''To the firefighters here, the police officers here, everyone involved in the recovery, all the volunteers, the family members: Thank you!'' she continued. ''It was your work, it was your heroism, it was your dedication that made the difference. It was your effort, coming here week after week to tell senators and Congress members about your stories and what you went through.''
The votes came after prolonged aggressive lobbying by top New York officials and lawmakers, police and firefighter groups and 9/11 families, who argued that the nation had a moral obligation to provide medical assistance to rescue workers who spent days, weeks and even months at ground zero.
In a reminder of the bill's long road to passage, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who sponsored the legislation when she represented New York in the Senate, was coincidentally at the Capitol on Wednesday for a Senate vote on ratification of the New Start treaty
The 9/11 health measure calls for providing $1.8 billion over the next five years to monitor and treat injuries stemming from exposure to toxic dust and debris at ground zero; New York City would pay 10 percent of these costs.
There are nearly 60,000 people enrolled in health-monitoring and treatment programs related to the 9/11 attack. The federal government currently provides the bulk of the financing for these programs.
The legislation adopted on Wednesday also sets aside $2.5 billion to reopen the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund for five years to provide payment for job and economic losses.
In a statement released by City Hall, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg hailed the passage of the legislation, saying it ''affirms our nation's commitment to protecting those who protect us all.''
The bill was adopted during a flurry of activity as lawmakers rushed to adjourn for the year. It was a major turn of events since the bill appeared to have fallen victim to partisan squabbling and rancor.
In September, after years of negotiation and debate, the House passed legislation that called for providing $7.4 billion over eight years to cover the medical care of 9/11 rescue workers and others. But this month, Republicans derailed that legislation in the Senate, expressing concern about its cost.
By Wednesday, Senate Republicans budged, following a barrage of criticism over the last few days -- not just from Democrats, but also from allies, including former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York and conservative news outlets like Fox News. The 9/11 health care issue also became a cause of Jon Stewart, who used the platform of his program, ''The Daily Show,'' to bring national attention to the bill.
Before agreeing to lift their opposition, Senate Republicans managed to get Democrats to scale back the size of the original House bill.
The Senate adopted the legislation by a voice vote, eliminating the need for a recorded vote, as lawmakers rushed to bring the Congressional session to a close.
One of the main critics of the original House bill, Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, expressed satisfaction with the legislation's final cost.
''Every American recognizes the heroism of the 9/11 first responders,'' Mr. Coburn said. ''But it is not compassionate to help one group while robbing future generations of opportunity.''
Still, the acrimonious fight over the 9/11 legislation appeared to leave Republicans on the defensive and concerned that their party had been unfairly demonized for raising legitimate objections to the original $7.4 billion bill the House passed.
''Some have tried to portray this debate as a debate between those who support 9/11 workers and those who don't,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. ''This is a gross distortion of the facts. There was never any doubt about supporting the first responders. It was about doing it right.''
In the House, there was some disappointment among Democrats over the deal cut in the Senate. But many concluded that the Senate bill was the best they could get at the moment.
''This compromise isn't everything we wanted,'' Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, a chief sponsor of the original legislation, said. ''But in the end we got a strong program that will save lives.''
The bill is formally known as the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, named after a New York police detective who took part in the rescue efforts at ground zero and later developed breathing complications. He died in January 2006. The cause of his death became a source of debate after the city's medical examiner concluded that it was not directly related to the attack.
The legislation allows for money from the Victims' Compensation Fund to be paid to any eligible claimant who receives a payment under the settlement of lawsuits that more than 10,000 rescue and cleanup workers recently reached with the city. Currently, those who receive a settlement are limited in how much compensation they can get from the fund.
In New York, a federal judge told lawyers for the 10,000 that payments from the settlement must start going out by late January. The judge, Alvin K. Hellerstein of United States District Court in Manhattan, worked out a timetable with the lawyers so that the settlement terms, which call for payments of at least $625 million, become final within the next two weeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wendy Flammia in Washington on Wednesday with a photo of John McNamara, a 9/11 first responder who died of cancer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (93%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); MEDICAID (78%); TERRORISM (72%); CHRISTMAS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



631 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Lame Ducks Triumphant

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is off today.

 BODY:
Wow, we're getting a new nuclear arms control treaty for Christmas. I know some of you were hoping for iPads. But still, big news.
Good work, White House! Thank heavens we got rid of our former president, Barack Obama, who couldn't even get the trade agreement he went all the way to South Korea to sign. Our current president, Barack Obama, would never let that happen, and, in fact, came up with a really excellent trade agreement with the South Koreans just the other day.
''Administration officials have bent over backwards to try to solve every problem that's come up,'' said Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, one of the Republicans who reached across the aisle to get the New Start treaty with Russia ratified. 
The treaty, which needed a two-thirds vote, was actually approved 71 to 26. The Democrats did not have to go scrambling madly around looking for one last vote. And even the opponents were winners since they got to spend more than a week beating up on the Russians, revisiting the golden days when life was simple and wars were cold.
''They cheat. They are serial cheaters,'' said Senator James Risch of Idaho, the author of my favorite unsuccessful amendment to the treaty. It would have made the entire groundbreaking nuclear-reduction program contingent on the return of four American Humvees that the Russians picked up during their conflict with Georgia. Risch hauled out blowups of one of the enslaved military vehicles, shouting: ''You can watch your property right here being towed away by the Russians! Back to Moscow!'' If the former Red Menace wants to ''hold hands and sing 'Kumbaya,' '' he added, ''Well, that is fine. But give us back our stolen military equipment.''
When was it that the singing of ''Kumbaya'' became a shorthand for weenieness? ''Kumbaya'' is an excellent campfire song, especially for groups that border on tone-deafness and don't know the words to anything. I remember singing it in Girl Scout camp with friends who emerged unscathed and became conservative Republicans. Some may be writing letters protesting the New Start treaty at this very moment. Please, give ''Kumbaya'' a break.
But I digress. Nothing, not even Humvees in chains, was going to stop the progress of what has recently become known as the ''hard-charging lame-duck Congress.'' It is a perfect image, with its suggestion of a flock racing along in the clumsiest manner possible but still stumbling over the finish line.
''When it's all going to be said and done, Harry Reid has eaten our lunch,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who called the hard-charging lame duck ''a capitulation in two weeks of dramatic proportions.'' This is the rapidly evolving new hyperpartisan Lindsey Graham, who was so ticked off at the fact that the Senate was devoting a mere eight days to the treaty that he told the antitreaty obstructionist Jon Kyl of Arizona: ''I want to apologize to you for the way you've been treated by your colleagues.''
His Start-supporting fellow Republicans appeared quietly unrepentant. Perhaps they were afraid that if they said anything in response, Graham would continue his evolution into awfulness right there on the Senate floor and start gnawing on the ankles of elderly legislators.
Good work, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman John Kerry. We appreciate the way you've evolved from one of the world's worst presidential candidates into an extremely useful senator. Unlike some unsuccessful presidential candidates we could name.
Good work, Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, the lone Republican who stuck with the treaty through thick and thin and never mutated into a scary new entity.
Good work, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. Unlike your hapless predecessor, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, you've had legislation shooting off to the White House like angry birds in that video game. Unemployment compensation! Gay rights! Food safety! Judicial appointments! Arms control! Health care for 9/11 responders!
But let's admit it. Nothing would have gotten done if Obama hadn't swallowed that loathsome compromise on tax cuts for the wealthy.
If he'd taken the high road, Congress would be in a holiday war. The long-term unemployed would be staggering into the new year without benefits. The rest of the world would look upon the United States as a country so dysfunctional that it can't even ratify a treaty to help keep nuclear weapons out of the hands of terrorists. The people who worked at ground zero would still be uncertain about their future, and our gay and lesbian soldiers would still be living in fear.
It's depressing to think that there was no way to win that would not have involved giving away billions of dollars to people who don't need it. But it's kind of cheery to think we have a president who actually does know what he's doing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); DEAFNESS (71%); WRITERS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); HARRY REID (57%); JIM RISCH (57%); BOB CORKER (57%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



632 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says China Fund Breaks Rules

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration filed a case against China with the World Trade Organization on Wednesday, siding with an American labor union, the United Steelworkers, in accusing Beijing of illegally subsidizing the production of wind power equipment.
The decision is the second time in less than four months that the United States has accused China of violating world trade rules.
It represents an escalation of trade tensions between the United States and China over clean energy, viewed by the Obama administration as a frontier in which American companies are struggling to remain competitive. 
The United States is challenging a special Chinese government fund that awards grants to makers of wind power equipment. The Americans say the fund provides subsidies that are illegal under W.T.O. rules because the grants appear to be contingent on manufacturers using parts made in China.
''Import substitution subsidies are particularly harmful and inherently trade distorting, which is why they are expressly prohibited under W.T.O. rules,'' Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, said in a statement. ''These subsidies effectively operate as a barrier to U.S. exports to China. Opening markets by removing barriers to our exports is a core element of the president's trade strategy.''
On Thursday, the Chinese Commerce Ministry said in a statement posted on its Web site that China would study the U.S. complaint and would handle the dispute under W.T.O. settlement rules.
The individual grants available under the Chinese program range from $6.7 million to $22.5 million. Chinese makers of wind turbines and associated parts can receive multiple grants as the size of the wind turbine models increases.
Total subsidies under the program since 2008 could amount to several hundred million dollars, according to Mr. Kirk's office.
The United Steelworkers, which had protested the Chinese wind power fund as part of a larger, 5,800-page trade complaint it filed with the American government on Sept. 9, said the administration's decision was only a first step in addressing a ''vast web of protectionist policies'' by Beijing.
''The goal is not litigation,'' Leo W. Gerard, the union's president, said in a statement. ''It's to end their practices.''
The accusation on Wednesday is the first step in the W.T.O.'s process for settling disputes.. If China and the United States cannot reach a solution through consultations, the United States may request the establishment of a W.T.O. dispute settlement panel.
Members of Congress who have been pushing for a bolder stance against China on trade, currency and other commercial matters, applauded the decision to file the case.
''The United States needs to take a more assertive approach to China's mercantilist policies, and the administration's action today is a welcome step in the right direction,'' said Representative Sander M. Levin, a Michigan Democrat and the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, which oversees trade.
Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, said in a statement that China was on track to make half of the world's wind turbines and solar panels and urged the administration to make trade enforcement a priority.
''The United States cannot replace its dependence on foreign oil with a dependence on clean energy technology made in China,'' he said. ''American manufacturing must lead the way -- and to do this, they need a level playing field.''
The action grows out of an investigation Mr. Kirk's office initiated on Oct. 15 in response to the Steelworkers' case, which covered a range of practices in the clean-energy sector, including prohibited subsidies, export restraints and discrimination against foreign companies and imported goods.The case, known as a Section 301 complaint under the Trade Act of 1974, has been the subject of several talks between Chinese and American trade officials.
After two days of meetings last week in Washington, part of an annual forum known as the United States-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade, China agreed to lift one barrier to foreign developers seeking to build wind farms there. The Chinese government will allow overseas experience in wind farm development, and not just experience in China, to qualify the developers for Chinese projects.
But several other barriers remain: foreign developers are banned from offshore projects for what China describes asnational security reasons, are not allowed to borrow as much money as domestic developers and are prohibited from selling carbon credits from their wind farms.
Mr. Kirk said his office would continue to investigate other parts of the Steelworkers' complaint but was not planning additional filings under Section 301, which authorizes the president to take ''all appropriate action,'' including retaliation, against practices by foreign governments that violate international trade agreements or discriminate against American commerce.
''We will continue to work closely with the U.S.W. and other stakeholders in the months ahead on the remaining allegations,'' Mr. Kirk said. ''If we are able to develop sufficient evidence to support those allegations and they can be effectively addressed through W.T.O. litigation, we will pursue the enforcement of our rights at the W.T.O. independently of Section 301.''
That statement prompted Mr. Levin and Mr. Gerard to call for trade enforcement to receive greater priority and more resources. Trade complaints are notoriously complex and involve extensive investigations before the government can file a case before the W.T.O. in Geneva.
General Electric, which is a major supplier of wind energy equipment but has been sensitive about antagonizing officials in China, where it has substantial business, declined to comment on the decision.
John Frisbie, the president of the United States-China Business Council, which represents American businesses working in China, reacted cautiously.
Mr. Frisbie said the decision ''appears to be an appropriate first step,'' but that disputes between W.T.O. members are ''nothing new or unique.''
Rob Gramlich, senior vice president for public policy at the American Wind Energy Association, said that the United States ''can be a world leader in turbine manufacturing and exports'' and that ''any practice that tilts the global playing field unfairly would be of serious concern to our members who want to play a role in China, which has become the world's largest wind market.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wind turbines are assembled at the Gamesa factory in Tianjin, China. The case filed by the United States says that China provides illegal grants to build wind power equipment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG KANTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); LITIGATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WEB SITES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); RON KIRK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



633 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; EXPERIENCE NECESSARY; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Helping Arts Groups Realize Grand Plans

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
When ballet companies need new stages for their ballerinas to jete on, and opera companies need new theaters where their Valkyries can sing, Willem Brans is their go-to man. For more than three decades Mr. Brans, 61, vice president of the Los Angeles-based Arts Consulting Group, has helped conceive and plan new concert halls and raise funds for dozens of performing arts organizations and museums. A former English teacher and journalist, he got into arts management in 1979, as marketing manager for the Dallas Ballet. He lives with his wife, Jo, on the Upper East Side.
Birthplace: The Netherlands. My family emigrated from Rotterdam when I was 8. I didn't know a word of English. We moved to Maryland, south of Baltimore. 
Any artistic aspirations? Truthfully, no. I am a rank amateur musician. I play the piano, but not for anyone to hear other than my poor wife, who endures it from time to time. To play the piano you have to practice. And to practice you have to repeat. And if you repeat you have to drive someone crazy. You have to play scales. It's numbing.
Music as escape, and gateway: When I was in the seventh grade, I was looking for a way to get out of P.E. And the way you did that in my high school was to join the band. My band director, in his spare time, was also a jazz musician. He taught me how to play the saxophone, and asked me to join a jazz band. And I learned to play jazz. And I tell people now that jazz is what makes me an American. Because Americans all share a sense of swing. You get a sense of what American culture is at its very heart.
Biggest projects: The Meyerson Symphony Center in Dallas. That was a major project. I. M. Pei was the architect, and it's an absolutely brilliant building. It opened in 1989 and has 2,100 seats. That's the sweet spot for acoustics. It was definitely a turning point for Dallas. And Carmel, Ind., a suburb just north of Indianapolis, is opening a $120 million concert hall in January.
There's a sweet spot for acoustics? Yes, 1,600 to 2,200 seats is the optimal size. It's all about the volume of the hall. If you have 3,000 seats, that's a huge space to fill. If you go smaller than 1,200 seats and put 100 musicians onstage, you're going to feel pain in your eyes.
Ever seen such tough times in the arts? Now is the worst. It's really, really tough. There are arts organizations that are having trouble meeting payroll; museums, symphony orchestras, theater companies, dance companies that never had to worry about that before, because they had cash reserves or annual funds or solid admissions and earned income. When all of those things go down at the same time and the endowment is down and the reserves are down, it's very, very painful.
Any silver lining? We're seeing a lot of interest on the part of towns, cities and municipalities that are considering building arts facilities. They're interested in making themselves an arts destination. People see it as an economic stimulus.
Why the arts matter: Art provides an image of excellence, and even at times perfection, in a world that is beset with pain and difficulty and great challenge. It provides order against chaos.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (91%); DANCE (91%); DANCERS (90%); THEATER (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (72%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



634 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Sliding Into Second, Even in Winter

BYLINE: By MELISSA HOPPERT

 BODY:
CLEVELAND -- There were no vendors wandering the aisles, no players warming up on a sun-drenched field, no shirtless bleacher faithful.
Winter had arrived, after all, at Progressive Field.
Yet the home run porch in left field was blanketed with people sipping hot chocolate, warming up by a fire and glancing out at the enormous winter playground the Cleveland Indians have created in an effort to get more use, and revenue, out of what would otherwise be a dormant facility.
As part of what the team calls Snow Days, the site's centerpieces are a 10-lane tubing hill named the batterhorn that stretches from the middle of the bleachers into right field, and a quarter-mile ice skating track called the frozen mile -- the first of its kind in the United States, the Indians say -- that zips past the warning track, second base, the bullpens and underneath the bleachers.
''People can go somewhere and tube, they can go somewhere and ice skate, but they can't do it in a setting like this, with the entertainment that our scoreboard group's provided, the Christmas lights on the field; it's just a completely unique entertainment option,'' said Mark Shapiro, the team's president and a person more accustomed to talking about pitchers and catchers. 
The Indians, of course, are not the only ones widening the parameters of an established venue. In recent weeks, Northwestern and Illinois played a football game at Wrigley Field, Notre Dame and Army revived an old New York football tradition by meeting at the new Yankee Stadium (with the Pinstripe Bowl next on Dec. 30), and Michigan Stadium set a world record for attendance at a hockey game with a crowd of 113,411 on hand to watch Michigan play Michigan State.
All of this makes sense to Vince Gennaro, author of ''Diamond Dollars: The Economics of Winning in Baseball'' and a sports business professor who is a consultant to the Indians.
''Teams are going to look at using their ballpark in unique ways as a way to build their fan base, as a way to get people in the habit of coming down to that ballpark,'' Gennaro said.
Encouraging that habit would seem particularly important for the Indians, who drew fewer fans -- 1,391,644 -- than any other major league club this season. Although the Indians expect to take a financial loss on this year's Snow Days, it does serve as a form of creative advertising for the team.
''Think about when a kid comes to a game with his dad in July, and he's sitting off third base and watching a ball go out to deep left field and he says, 'Dad remember when we went down the tube slide right there, isn't that pretty funny?' '' Gennaro said. ''Those are exciting thoughts for fans to have.''
Shapiro said the idea for Snow Days began percolating about 15 years ago, when the Indians were brainstorming about ways to use their new ballpark. To some extent, they were inspired by the N.H.L.'s outdoor Winter Classic, particularly last season's edition at Fenway Park, which was expanded to include college, high school, recreational and youth hockey games, as well as public skating. The event was estimated to bring $36 million in additional revenue to the city, the Greater Boston Convention & Visitors Bureau said.
''It was just a really special three-week period for Fenway Park and the Bruins and for Boston in general,'' said Sam Kennedy, the president of Fenway Sports Group, which spearheaded the supplementary events. ''We were actually talking about how much we miss not having a rink out there.''
As for the Indians, what they miss most are the crowds they used to draw for baseball. Not that long ago, they set a record -- later broken by the Red Sox -- for consecutive regular-season sellouts. From 1995 to 2001, they had 455 at what was then known at Jacobs Field. Everything was in alignment: the Browns had left for Baltimore, Jacobs Field was new and the Indians had finally figured out how to win games.
But that was then. The Indians have not made the playoffs since 2007, fans are unhappy with the team's ownership for not spending more on the team and Cleveland has been ravaged by unemployment and population loss.
''We're not the same market,'' Shapiro said, thinking back to when the team was flourishing. ''We're not generating the same revenue. It's not just the chicken and the egg, the city of Cleveland's changed. So I think we're just looking at it that we just can't operate the same way. We've got to evolve as a business.''
Progressive Field is owned by the city and operated by the Gateway Economic Development Corporation. The Indians pay a fixed rent and keep all stadium revenues. If they can find a way in the future to make a profit on their winter festival, it is all theirs.
Shapiro said it was no surprise that Snow Days was expected to lose money this time, citing ''the challenge of creating an event that's never been done before.''
''But we've learned a ton, and we've gotten better as we've gone along, and I think that will help ensure greater financial success next year,'' he said.
It took about a month to construct the Indians' winter playground, which was built mostly by local companies, and so far the only real hurdle has been removing the excess snow that has fallen this month. Before nature cooperated, about 120 tons of snow were made daily to keep Snow Days running. The event began the day after Thanksgiving, will run through Jan. 2 and is expected to draw about 60,000 people by the time it closes. Most of the tickets range from $5 to $25.
Chris Bigelow, the president of Kansas City-based Bigelow Companies and a stadium concession consultant, said that while teams like the Indians were trying to find more uses for their stadiums and arenas, making money was not assured. It can be expensive, he noted, to reopen a baseball stadium after it has closed in October, to rent equipment to make ice and snow, to hire extra staff.
''The jury is still out on whether it's worthwhile,'' he said.
But the Indians think it is. The last leg of Snow Days is likely to be the busiest, with children off from school. The team is also hosting what it calls Snow Year's Eve, which will include dinner and dancing in the Terrace Club restaurant and fireworks at midnight. So what if the Indians haven't won the World Series since 1948?
Shapiro said about a half-dozen major league baseball teams had asked to come to Progressive Field to observe what the Indians are doing. Teams in other sports have also made inquiries.
When Snow Days is over, the Indians will examine the outfield for damage and, more important, figure out what they could improve upon for next year. They will look for bigger attendance, no doubt, and enough revenue to make a profit.
And they can reflect on all the happy faces of people resting in the bullpen after a loop on the ice track or warming up under the heaters in the Indians' dugout.
Kurt Schloss, a Snow Days project manager, said, ''All I can tell you is that standing at the bottom of the hill, watching people come down the batterhorn, if I heard 'awesome' once, I heard it 10,000 times.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Progressive Field, home of the Cleveland Indians, is host to Snow Days, a way to expand use of the ballpark. The event is expected to draw 60,000 people from Nov. 26 through Jan. 2. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN MENDLIK/CLEVELAND INDIANS) (B13)
Snow Days at Progressive Field includes visits by Slider, the Indians' mascot
a 10-lane tubing hill that originates in the bleachers, called the batterhorn
and a quarter-mile ice skating track. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT, MELISSA HOPPERT/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CENTER AND RIGHT, DAN MENDLIK/CLEVELAND INDIANS)
 A youth hockey team skated last winter at Fenway Park in Boston during the three weeks of activities with the Winter Classic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY SCHWALM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); WINTER SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ICE SKATING (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (59%) OHIO, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



635 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
6 A.M. (TCM) STAR OF THE MONTH: MICKEY ROONEY Turner Classic Movies continues its Thursdays-in-December tribute to Mr. Rooney, a larger-than-life 5-foot-2 package who married eight times, made and lost millions of dollars and has enjoyed a career spanning more than 80 years. Highlights include four of Mr. Rooney's signature roles: ''National Velvet'' (1944), starring Mr. Rooney as a young drifter who tames the wild steed of a 12-year-old British girl (Elizabeth Taylor, above with Mr. Rooney), training it for the Grand National steeplechase, at 3:30 p.m.; ''The Black Stallion'' (1979), about a boy (Kelly Reno) and the horse he bonds with after they are shipwrecked off Africa, featuring Mr. Rooney as a once-successful trainer who teaches the stallion to race like the wind, at 6; ''The Human Comedy'' (1943), in which Mr. Rooney portrays a small-town telegraph boy growing up during World War II, at 8; and ''The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn'' (1939), with Mr. Rooney as Mark Twain's troublemaker, at 10:15. 
7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY Two male a cappella ensembles -- Chanticleer and Committed, which just won ''The Sing-Off'' -- perform.
7:30 P.M. (SNY) SPORTSNITE SPECIAL: THE YEAR IN SPORTS Sportswriters -- including Richard Sandomir of The New York Times, Phil Mushnick of The New York Post, Neil Best of Newsday and John Ourand of SportsBusiness Journal -- join Kevin Burkhardt for an assessment of the biggest New York-centered sports stories of 2010. Among the topics up for discussion: LeBron James's decision to play for the Miami Heat and Derek Jeter's contract negotiations.
8 P.M. (FX) NIGHT AT THE MUSEUM (2006) Ben Stiller stars as Larry Daley, a divorced, unemployed schlump on the verge of losing his 10-year-old son (Jake Cherry) who takes a job as night watchman at the American Museum of Natural History so he won't have to do the unthinkable: move from Manhattan to Queens. Never mind that the museum's aged guards, played by Dick Van Dyke, Mickey Rooney (see above) and Bill Cobbs, seem to have something up their uniform sleeves. Soon enough, everything -- including a Tyrannosaurus rex, a statue from Easter Island and a cheeky monkey named Dexter -- has come to life. Robin Williams plays a wisdom-dispensing Teddy Roosevelt intent on whipping Larry into shape.
8 P.M. (G4) AMERICAN NINJA WARRIOR Season 2 comes to a close as the remaining contestants take on the Sasuke, a four-stage obstacle course in Yokohama considered the world's most formidable. The winner is anointed at 9.
8 P.M. (HBO) I LOVE YOU, MAN (2009) Paul Rudd, far left, plays Peter Klaven, a girl's guy without a male friend. Jason Segel, right, who teamed up with Mr. Rudd in ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall,'' is Sydney Fife, a guy's guy so secure in his maleness that he wears Ugg boots and shorts to walk his teeny dog. The two meet cute at an open house and voila!, Peter has a best man to stand by his side at his wedding to Zooey (Rashida Jones) -- if the wedding ends up happening. Writing in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called the film ''a fitfully funny comedy that owes much to Judd Apatow, the king of such sublimated man-on-man affairs,'' adding that the director, John Hamburg, ''doesn't do anything with the camera, but he sets a nice, easygoing tone for the actors.''
9 P.M. (13) DANCE IN AMERICA: SAN FRANCISCO BALLET'S NUTCRACKER In a ''Great Performances'' presentation the San Francisco Ballet reimagines ''The Nutcracker,'' setting it during the 1915 Panama-Pacific International Exposition, with choreography by that company's artistic director, Helgi Tomasson, and Maria Kochetkova in the leading role.
9 P.M. (BBC America) SWEENEY TODD: THE DEMON BARBER OF FLEET STREET (2007) Johnny Depp, his skin pale and his eyes odd, stars as the vengeful barber (and earned a best actor Oscar nomination) in Tim Burton's film of the Stephen Sondheim-Hugh Wheeler musical. Helena Bonham Carter is Mrs. Lovett, the pie maker who disposes of Sweeney's victims. And Alan Rickman is the malevolent judge who transported Sweeney to Australia, stole his wife (Laura Michelle Kelly) and now has guardianship of his teenage daughter. Writing in The New York Times, A. O. Scott called the film ''as dark and terrifying as any motion picture in recent memory, not excluding the bloody installments in the 'Saw' franchise,'' adding, ''It is also something close to a masterpiece, a work of extreme -- I am tempted to say evil -- genius.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (85%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); HISTORY (66%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (66%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

PERSON: BEN STILLER (58%); DEREK JETER (50%); LEBRON JAMES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



636 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: A Windfall in Hard Times

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
IT took a few years but Rachel Reeves of Long Beach, Calif., found the exact bedside tables she was searching for at an estate sale last month. Made in the 1950s from cherry wood, they had a colonial revival look, with tapered legs and carved ridges in the drawers. And at $20 for the pair, the price was right.
''It's so exciting to have things that don't look like what everybody else has,'' said Ms. Reeves, 30, a stay-at-home mom with a 3-year-old and a baby on the way. She has been shopping at estate sales for affordable furnishings since she and her husband bought a house five years ago. ''And I like that the tables had a life before I met them,'' she said. ''They had meaning for someone else.''
Driven by nostalgia, thrift and the thrill of the hunt, more people like Ms. Reeves are shopping at estate or tag sales, lining up before dawn to be the first to rummage through other people's discards, hoping to find inexpensive and one-of-a-kind items for their homes or to resell online for extra spending money. 
As the ranks of these shoppers grow, so does the number of sales, both because so many homes are in foreclosure and because baby boomers are downsizing or perhaps selling off the belongings of their infirm or deceased parents.
Professional organizers of estate sales say they cannot keep up with demand and that they are working year-round rather than just in spring and summer, when sales were traditionally held. And the sales days, previously just on weekends, are now anytime from Wednesday to Sunday.
''I can hardly keep up with the calls,'' said Denise LoSquadro, owner of Sisters in Charge Tag Sale Professionals, which organizes sales on Long Island. For a commission of 25 to 40 percent, organizers like Ms. LoSquadro handle all aspects of a sale, including pricing, staging, crowd control, transactions and cleanup. ''We help mostly people going into assisted living or going through foreclosure, but also divorcing people who want to get rid of all the skeletons, if you know what I mean,'' she said.
Activity on Estatesales.net confirms the rise in both shoppers and sales. The site, which helps people nationwide locate sales in their area, has doubled its business every year over the last five years. It currently lists an average of 75,000 sales a week with more than 150,000 people signed up to receive its e-mail alerts. ''The poor economy is primarily what's driving it,'' said Dan McQuade, an owner of the site, which is based in Jackson, Mo. ''It's forcing more people to sell their things and making more people unwilling or unable to buy retail.''
Deborah McMahon, 59, a retired Congressional staffer, started shopping at estate sales eight months ago for items to spruce up her four-story town house in Alexandria, Va. ''You can find things that make a room, and at a tolerable price,'' she said. ''You go to a furniture store and the prices are so high, you could save I don't how many lives in Haiti.'' Her latest finds are a brass lamp with a black metallic shade and an antique Oriental bowl.
But Ms. McMahon said it took her some time to learn the protocol of estate-sale shopping. ''It's like you are breaking into a clique,'' she said. ''There's this whole subculture with its own set of rules.''
For example, the first person to arrive at a sale distributes so-called pre-numbers to others as they drive up and wait in their cars. ''You flash your lights to let them know you are there for the sale,'' said Ms. McMahon, who usually shows up well before dawn for sales that typically start around 8 a.m. When the person running the sale arrives, shoppers exchange their pre-numbers for real numbers, which determine the order in which shoppers are admitted.
''Even when I get there early and get a good number, I still get shoe prints on my back,'' Ms. McMahon said. ''It's fun, but it's like ants all over an anthill when they first open the doors.''
Those with the sharpest elbows, according to veterans, tend to be pickers, which in estate-sale argot means dealers who are seeking items to resell in antiques malls or flea markets, or online. Junkers are recreational shoppers who are buying for themselves. And hoarders, of course, are acquiring compulsively and may have to hold their own estate sales to pare down their accumulation.
''I went to a sale that was being held because a hoarder lost her house, and there was an entire semi-trailer full of shoes,'' said Debra Hogan, 55, a self-described junker who scours estate sales as well as garage sales in Bloomington, Minn. ''Too bad they weren't my size because they were adorable.''
With a three-car garage so packed with purchases that only one car fits, Ms. Hogan tries to avoid the hoarder label by selling many of her finds at a stall she rents in an antiques mall. ''It allows me to shop without the stuff taking over,'' she said.
''You can also make pretty good money,'' she added, which is why she quit ''various other careers,'' including selling cosmetics, five years ago to concentrate on buying and reselling.
Similarly, Diane Mars, 56, a real estate agent in Thousand Oaks, Calif., supports her estate- and garage-sale habit by selling excess items on eBay. ''The real estate business is really bad right now so if I get short on money, all I have to do is sell some stuff,'' she said. She recently sold 10 Coca-Cola serving trays from the 1930s for a total of $5,000. She had bought them all for $30, she said. Also profitable are vintage ballerina cake decorations from the 1950s, which she buys four for a dollar and sells for $25.
Given the rise in estate sales, shoppers like Ms. Mars say it is becoming hard to decide which ones to attend. She scans Craigslist and her local newspaper, and drives around looking for yard signs advertising coming sales.
''I have the advantage of being a Realtor so I can look up the title of the house and tell how long they've lived there,'' Ms. Mars said. She and other estate-sale devotees say that, usually, the longer a person has lived in a house, the higher the quality of the merchandise on sale, and the more of it is likely to be vintage.
There are other sites like Estatesales.net that list sales nationwide and offer mapping features to help shoppers pinpoint events near them, including Estatesales.org and WeekendTreasure.com. Professional organizers pay a fee to list sales on the sites and often include pictures of select items. Many organizers also have Web sites of their own where they advertise events.
In the Internet age, buyers don't necessarily have to live near the sale. Bryan Davis, whose company, JBD Estate Sales, organizes sales in Houston, said he gets many distant inquiries, often from collectors interested in specifics, like paintings or silver or jewelry. If these parties bid higher than he thinks the local market will bear, Mr. Davis said, he will sell to them even before the sale begins. ''My job is to get my clients top dollar,'' he said.
But in these tough economic times, it is not just collectibles and vintage items that shoppers desire. They want cheap household goods like pots and pans, cleaning supplies and paper towels.
''We sell everything from a 50-cent half-used can of WD-40 to a $5,000 dining table,'' said Daniel Sanders, president of Four Sales, which organizes estate sales in and around Washington, D.C. ''Estate sales are becoming a more visible and mainstream way of shopping.''
Whether they seek paper towels or Picassos, experienced estate-sale shoppers say it is best not to dither. They advise picking up and holding on to anything that sparks even the slightest interest and making a final decision later.
If the piece is too big to carry, it is acceptable to remove the price tag and take it to the register. But it is considered bad form to bring ''sold'' stickers and put them on items before they are purchased, as some pickers are known to do.
And finally, said Ms. Reeves of Long Beach, ''Bring wet wipes -- because your hands get filthy going through all that old stuff.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BARGAIN: Rachel Reeves of Long Beach, Calif., found a pair of tables (one can be seen in the background) for $20. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
HUNTERS: Deborah McMahon of Alexandria, Va., top left, at an estate sale. Diane Mars, left, of Thousand Oaks, Calif., buys vintage collectibles and resells them
the cake toppers, above, were four for $1, and she resold them for $25. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE AND LEFT, MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TOP LEFT, DARREN HIGGINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (75%); BABY BOOMERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



637 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Navistar Posts Lower Profit on Job Losses

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Navistar International reported lower quarterly earnings on Wednesday, pulled down by employee termination costs and a contraction in military sales.
The results were also hurt by a decline in parts revenue. 
The company expects demand for its trucks to increase in the coming year as freight rates and volumes improve along with the overall economy, it said in its annual report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Navistar stood by its forecast for industrywide truck and bus sales in the United States and Canada next year. It expects overall demand to rise about 25 percent to a range of 230,000 and 250,000 vehicles in 2011.
The company's brands include International trucks, MaxxForce diesel engines, IC Bus and Monaco motor homes. It warned that the continued consolidation of the trucking industry was giving the remaining players ''increased purchasing power,'' reducing demand for its products.
During a conference call to discuss the results, Navistar also said it continued to have problems with some of its suppliers, which analysts said have slowed delivery of its 13-liter engine.
Navistar reported a profit of $39 million, or 54 cents a share, for the fourth quarter ended on Oct. 31, down from $86 million, or $1.19 a share, a year earlier.
Excluding separation and layoff costs from a new four-year contract with the United Auto Workers, earnings were 68 cents a share.
On that basis, analysts on average expected the company to report a profit of 60 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
Sales rose 2 percent to $3.37 billion, beating analysts' estimates of $3.21 billion.
''Given what they face, including a still pretty lousy North American market, I think it was a better quarter than we expected,'' said Kristine Kubacki, an analyst at Avondale Partners. ''If this is as bad as it gets, I think there are better days ahead.''
Navistar expects its military sales, which have fallen from $3.9 billion in 2008 to $1.8 billion in 2010, to stabilize between $1.5 billion to $2 billion annually.
The company's shares were down 3.38 percent, or $2, to $57.17.
In October, the United Auto Workers ratified a labor agreement that included the elimination of union positions at Navistar's facility in Fort Wayne, Ind.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRUCKING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); TRUCKING (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: NAV (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (50%) INDIANA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



638 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: This Holiday, Secondhand Items Gain Some Respect

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
This holiday season, Mellissa Spitzer is doing what was once unthinkable for her: presenting used toys to her children, niece and young sister as gifts.
''I've talked to relatives and asked if they would mind, and they said no,'' said Mrs. Spitzer, 31, a stay-at-home mother of three in Mitchell, S.D., whose husband lost his computer engineering job last year and found another at half the salary. ''Some people are not so accepting of secondhand items, and I wouldn't want them to get offended.''
She rounded up the items -- monster toy trucks for her sons, a tutu for her daughter, toy horses for a niece -- at ThredUP.com, a Web site for swaps of children's clothing and toys that she joined after she and her husband declared bankruptcy.
Bartering, an age-old mode of commerce, has taken hold this year as the recession draws a broader spectrum of people trading everything from designer clothes to guitar lessons. 
The phenomenon is rooted partly in environmental concerns about crowded landfills and the energy consumed in manufacturing as well as a mainstream embrace of recycling. Social media like Facebook lend momentum to the swaps as people join forces to trade, share or negotiate better deals from retailers.
''There's a social piece here as well as a feel-good piece,'' said Perry M. Lowe, who teaches marketing and social media at Bentley University in Waltham, Mass.
But experts say that the primary incentive remains economic. ''It's really about shifting from consumption to the reality that we can't spend the way we spent before,'' said John Gerzema, a consumer behavior consultant in New York and co-author of a new book, ''Spend Shift: How the Post-Crisis Values Revolution Is Changing the Way We Buy, Sell and Live.''
Some retail experts see a cultural shift in the making as government deficits, high unemployment and the mortgage crisis depress living standards. While retail sales have lagged, they note, secondhand sales are flourishing: the National Association of Resale and Thrift Shops reported that net sales were up 13 percent this year from 2009, the strongest growth in five years.
Although Americans who barter are still in the minority, Britt Beemer, chief executive of the survey firm America's Research Group, said his polls had found that up to 26 percent of respondents said they were bartering products and skills, more than double the percentage in 2000, when the question was first posed.
''People are going to get a lot less squeamish about a lot of things,'' said Howard Davidowitz, chairman of Davidowitz & Associates, a retail consulting and investment banking firm.
The proliferation of Web sites with names like Swap.com and SwapMamas have moved swaps from the home and the community center to online bazaars with millions of users. No industry figures exist on the number of for-profit startups, but officials at one of the largest, Swap.com, said they had more than a million registered users and an inventory of 15 million items at any given time.
ThredUP opened for business in April as a clothing exchange site and expanded this month to toys. Mrs. Spitzer signed up as a member in August.
She said she used to buy new clothes for her three children, all under 7, every couple of months and then give them away as her children outgrew them. But after she joined ThredUP, she began viewing her children's hand-me-downs as currency.
She started packing ''gently used'' items from her closet into cartons that she could trade for boxes of similar items in the right size. Thirty-one boxes later, she said she had saved more than $400. ''Oh, God, the money I save,'' Mrs. Spitzer said. ''Especially with my daughter. She wants to wear dresses all the time.''
Emilie Hyams, 30, a lawyer who directs immigrant affairs in the New York City office of Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, is more motivated by environmental and charitable factors.
This month she held a swap in her small apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan where eight friends traded suits and purses. Each also agreed to donate a minimum of $10 and any leftover items to a battered women's shelter.
''For me it's a hybrid,'' said Ms. Hyams, who turned the Sunday swap into a wine and champagne cocktail hour with trays of cheese and fruit. ''It's a fun way of recycling and a fund-raiser for an organization.''
The event was organized through SwapforGood.org, a grass-roots effort founded last spring by two environmentalists from San Francisco who were concerned about budget cuts for groups that help victims of domestic violence.
Shira Golding, 30, a graphic designer in Ithaca, N.Y., said that as a child of the 1980s, ''I never thought of bartering -- our culture was very consumer-driven.'' But over the last year and a half, she has helped organize 13 community swaps and 3 giveaway events in the Tompkins County area with the environment in mind.
The swaps, sponsored by a volunteer group called Share Tompkins, can draw up to 300 people who trade not only goods but also their skills and time -- creating a window installation for a massage therapist, for example, or trading a cello for guitar lessons.
Collaborative consumption is based to some degree on trust, and groups like Share Tompkins say that face-to-face trading is the best way to avoid glitches.
Still, some sites foster transparency through rankings and reviews similar to those used by eBay. Mrs. Spitzer said that when she found stained shirts in one of her ThredUP boxes, she used the site's star rating system to express her disapproval and wrote the sender a letter to give her a chance to make it up to her.
As she saves hundreds of dollars, Mrs. Spitzer said she doubted she would ever go back to her old ways even in a better economy. She has been trolling other Web sites for discounted gift certificates for restaurant meals, meats and produce to give as holiday presents to relatives.
But some still draw the line when playing secondhand Santa.
Jenya Rose, 38, a lifelong thrift store shopper and book swapper from Dundee, Ill., said she, her sister and her mother enjoy exchanging inexpensive used gifts, if only because they net more presents that way. But outside the family circle, she worries, not everyone may be so elated.
Ms. Rose said she had toyed with the idea of giving her boss a used copy of ''Lonesome Dove,'' the Larry McMurtry best seller, for Christmas but was wavering.
''I wonder if he would be icked out,'' she said. ''He washes his hands a lot.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emilie Hyams, left, held a swap at her Manhattan apartment that was part fund-raising event. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (88%); RETAIL SALES (86%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); ENGINEERING (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); RETAILERS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SALES FIGURES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); LANDFILLS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); WRITERS (62%); INVESTMENT BANKING (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK & CO INC (65%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: NWY (NYSE) (65%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (65%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (65%); SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (65%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



639 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; THE GIMLET EYE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: Yes, Darlings, There Is A Santa Claus

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
WHAT is it about the holidays that so particularly illuminates the architecture of families? Just as the twinkling lights of a Christmas tree, flashing on the faces that surround it, can alternately bathe them in a warm glow or render them macabre, the season seems to cast the structures of family into weird relief. This is true of all families, no matter where they lie on the scale of class or economics, or so a recent conversation with Ivana Lowell suggests.
Ms. Lowell is the author of ''Why Not Say What Happened?,'' a coolly told and critically praised memoir of a childhood whose outlines were, even by the standards of contemporary pathography, baroque. The youngest daughter of Lady Caroline Blackwood -- herself the eldest child of Basil Hamilton-Temple-Blackwood, the fourth marquess of Dufferin and Ava, and the brewery heiress Maureen Guinness; and also a journalist, novelist, man killer, muse, alcoholic and parent whose approach to child rearing was bizarre -- Ms. Lowell was raised in an atmosphere of what one might call plural paternity. 
Ms. Lowell grew up thinking that her father was the composer Israel Citkowitz, her mother's second husband (the painter Lucian Freud was the first). Only in adulthood did she discover her conception was a result of an affair her mother had conducted with the English screenwriter Ivan Moffat, known for his adaptation of ''Giant.'' In the meantime, the practicalities -- if practical is the word -- of fatherhood were taken up by Lady Caroline's third husband, the manic-depressive poet Robert Lowell, and her good friend Robert Silvers, a founder of The New York Review of Books. She was reared in a variety of places, including London; Castletown House in Ireland; Mr. Lowell's pile in Brookline, Mass.; and Clandeboye, her grandmother's fabled Georgian mansion outside Belfast, Northern Ireland.
A memoir littered with the names of the rich and the titled, ''Why Not Say What Happened?,'' published in October, is a genetic whodunit. Yet Ms. Lowell's true achievement may lie in the unassuming way she communicates the resilience of a woman whose trials -- she was sexually abused at 6 by her nanny's husband, was severely burned in a childhood kitchen accident and has struggled for decades to conquer alcoholism -- might have done in most people.
Last week, Ms. Lowell came to Manhattan from her home in Sag Harbor, N.Y., for an annual Christmas lunch with her 11-year-old daughter's godparents -- aptly enough, given the glistering web of family connection, they are Mr. Silvers and the socialite and philanthropist Mercedes Bass. She sat down after at the bar of the Plaza Athenee hotel to discuss, among other things, the role of holidays in a childhood that she maintains, somewhat improbably, was a happy one.
''The writing process was four years'' for the book, said Ms. Lowell, who, after ordering a pot of Earl Grey tea, spirited a bottle of kombucha, a fermented medicinal tea, from her handbag, explaining that it is her beverage of choice since her return from one of several stints in rehab. (''Some people go to Yaddo,'' the artists' colony in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. ''I go to rehab.'')
A visit to a new psychotherapist started her on the book, she said. ''When I launched into my life story, as best I could, and talked about being burned and about my father and stepfather -- and... well, I had so many fathers, I wasn't sure which one was the one I should be talking about -- after the first five minutes, the therapist said, 'My God, you've been so battered and shunted around, it's amazing you're still standing.' ''
Ms. Lowell laughed as she spoke; her laugh is light and easy. She has the retrousse nose that is a trait common to her family of beauties (her mother and grandmother were both famed for their looks; her cousin is the fashion apparition Daphne Guinness), and high, almost Slavic cheekbones that accentuate her large and slightly slanted eyes.
''Strangely,'' Ms. Lowell continued, ''I had the sense that mine was a happy childhood. I know it makes no sense.''
Shuttled as a child from one country to another, she often had the impression, she said, ''that, really, we were the poorest, saddest people, and that everyone else was really rich and grand and we were the poor persons in the big house.''
There was no central heating in the large house where she spent much of her childhood. Her mother considered automobiles too middle-class to be bothered with owning one. In her version of alcoholic haute-Bohemia, it was also somehow ''common'' to trouble oneself with trivialities like regular meals. ''We didn't have food for dinner,'' Ms. Lowell said. ''When I visited friends at their houses and people sat down for dinner, I thought they were so grand. I thought, They really know how to live!''
It was not, Ms. Lowell insisted, so much that her mother was cruel as troubled and deeply eccentric. Far from being domestically inept, she was, in addition to her talents as a journalist, novelist, muse and consort to men of genius, skilled in the kitchen. ''She had once been a very good cook, and was particular about food,'' said Ms. Lowell. ''She brought her own food everywhere, to restaurants, always a clove of garlic in her purse because she felt restaurant cooks never added enough.''
Among her quirks was a distaste for vegetables or anything that got in the way of a dinner's principal course, a prejudice that became especially pronounced at holidays. ''At Christmas, we were never allowed turkey, only goose or Muscovy duck,'' she said. ''We were not allowed side dishes, so we begged and pleaded, 'Couldn't we please make some brussels sprouts.' ''
A small salad to accompany the goose was Lady Caroline's concession to the season -- that and Christmas pudding doused with brandy butter and set alight. ''Emphasis on brandy,'' Ms. Lowell said.
In Sag Harbor, where she lives now in a big house inherited from her mother, she will have a Christmas tree this year, she said, and hang stockings and prepare a large dinner with friends and play Santa for her daughter, Daisy, who is still ''at an age where she wants to believe.''
Ms. Lowell will not fall down drunk as she attempts stealthily to haul a pillowcase of presents down the staircase, as her mother once did. ''We heard her voice saying, 'Damn it!' '' Ms. Lowell said, referring to herself and a sister who would die of a heroin overdose in her teens. ''When we called out 'Who is it?' her voice came back: 'Oh, darlings, it's Santa Claus. Shhhh!' ''
At Christmas, Ms. Lowell said: ''There is such a multitude of opportunities to mess up, to get everything wrong. The clothes one buys for men, for instance, are always too big.
''My grandmother perennially gave joke presents,'' she said, referring to the Marchioness of Dufferin and Ava. ''Novelty gifts like plastic dog turds and wind-up penises. My mother was always in a state of rage. 'Every year something insulting,' she said. 'Every year!' ''
As it happened, Lady Caroline herself, while in no obvious ways an emotionally ample person, had an unexpected streak of generosity when it came to giving gifts. ''She pretended she was not good at it and never wrapped anything, except perhaps in some crumpled newspapers, and would always say, 'Oh, these are just some pathetic little sags,' which is what she called the antiques shops in Sag Harbor -- Pathetic Sags.''
In truth, her gifts ''were thoughtfully chosen -- a lamp, a nice print -- and not pathetic at all.''
Until the last year of her life, Lady Caroline took on the role of Santa at Christmas. ''At the end, when she was dying of cancer, she could not do it anymore,'' Ms. Lowell explained. ''Still, we were all together, and miraculously the holiday came off without anyone having a histrionic fit.''
The mother who, in Ms. Lowell's telling, had never been much of a mother could barely eat by then, her disease was so advanced. And the alcoholic famous for throwing away the cap of a vodka bottle after opening it could no longer drink as lavishly as she had. ''She could only hold down a bit of sake,'' Ms. Lowell said. Still, they had a Christmas feast in 1995, two months before Lady Caroline's death: no turkey or trimmings but also no battles royal. ''Perhaps we should have had a last big fight to keep tradition,'' Ms. Lowell said.
That the day came off sweetly, as does her memoir, and that it was not tinctured with bitterness owes to a particular strain of stubborn fortitude and realism that runs in her otherwise unconventional clan, she explained. ''The women in my family are very strong,'' she said. ''They always have the sense that, even when horrible things happen, you have no option but to carry on. Publicly, my mother was a complete pessimist, total doom-and-gloom. Yet until the end, she retained her curiosity, an eagerness to see what might be next.''
Even if you cannot eat the goose that you yourself cooked, she added, ''you can always look forward to who is coming to lunch.''
Correction: January 13, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Dec. 23 with the Gimlet Eye column, about Ivana Lowell's memoir, ''Why Not Say What Happened?'', misstated the date of the photograph showing her mother, Lady Caroline Blackwood, with the poet Robert Lowell, Lady Caroline's third husband. It was taken in 1977, not 1978.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SURVIVOR: Ivana Lowell, daughter of a Guinness brewery heiress, at her Sag Harbor home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E1)
 FATHER FIGURES: Left, Ivana Lowell's mother, Lady Caroline Blackwood, with her first husband, Lucian Freud, in Paris around 1949. Above, Lady Caroline in the garden of Castletown with her third husband, Robert Lowell, in 1978. Below, Robert B. Silvers of The New York Review of Books. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (74%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); BREWERIES (68%); LEGAL PATERNITY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (77%)

TITLE: Why Not Say What Happened? (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



640 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Making the Decision to Replace Yourself

BYLINE: By KATHERINE REYNOLDS LEWIS

 BODY:
In early 2008, Matt Dorey, founder and chief executive of Curve Dental, was at a loss. Three years into building a comprehensive Web-based software package for dentists, he felt the product was ready, but he was not sure how to make Curve a market leader. ''The company was getting complicated,'' Mr. Dorey said. ''I was starting to become conscious of what I didn't know. It was almost a feeling of loneliness.''
Then he learned of a chief executive, Jim Pack, who was looking for new opportunities after a private equity firm bought his medical-billing software company, AdvancedMD. Mr. Dorey reached out with a LinkedIn invitation. ''This was someone I had been following for four years,'' he recalled. ''He was really open about sharing knowledge and letting us know about the challenges we face. I immediately knew there was nobody better to be the C.E.O. of this company.'' 
Mr. Dorey enlisted his board and top executives in a monthslong campaign to woo Mr. Pack, who ultimately agreed. Since Mr. Pack took over as chief executive in January 2009, Curve Dental has more than doubled its staff and has introduced its software to the American market, gaining share in more than 40 states and increasing its customer base fivefold. Picking the right replacement, Mr. Dorey said, ''was the most important decision I've ever made at Curve and probably will ever make.''
Turning over your company to a successor is not to be taken lightly. And in many cases, sticking it out might be the better option, especially if you can delegate those parts of your job that have become unmanageable. But in some instances replacing yourself at the helm makes sense. Based on the experiences of small-business owners, this guide offers suggestions on how to make that decision and accomplish the transition as painlessly as possible.
HOW DO YOU KNOW? Ironically, the qualities that help you succeed as an entrepreneur -- relentless optimism, willingness to tackle any challenge, a stubborn belief in yourself and your business -- also make it hard to assess your own weaknesses dispassionately. But one individual rarely possesses all the varied skills and experiences needed to take a company from idea to product introduction to sales growth to institutionalizing operations. When you hit your limit, you and your company may benefit from a leader with a fresh set of eyes and a different skill set.
Sequential sleepless nights can be an important warning sign, said Bo Fishback, vice president of entrepreneurship at the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation -- especially if you are worrying about the same problem and unable to make headway. Other red flags include a loss of excitement when entering the workplace, or suggestions from people close to you that it might be time to scale back.
When questions arise, not all owners have a choice. If you have taken venture capital money and your investors want a change, they are likely to get it. That is what happened at eBags, an online retailer based in Denver, when the board decided in April 2008 to replace the co-founder, Jon Nordmark, with an outside chief executive. ''It was personally very difficult because this is your baby,'' said Peter Cobb, an eBags senior vice president who had founded the business along with Mr. Nordmark. ''You care about it so much and you feel like nobody else will care about it as much.''
Mr. Nordmark was replaced by Vince Jones, part of a team that helped Walmart.com reach $1 billion in sales. After watching Mr. Jones bring in talented new executives and steer the company through the recession, Mr. Cobb is convinced that replacing his business partner was the right step, noting that revenue grew even during the recession. ''We were able to grow single digits,'' he said. ''That's almost like growing 30 percent in boom times.''
FINDING A REPLACEMENT When seeking a replacement, start with people already emotionally invested in your company. If possible, ''try before you buy,'' with a consulting or temporary role that is easier to reverse, suggested Noam T. Wasserman, an associate professor at Harvard Business School. If someone must be hired from outside, make sure you and your board have repeated and extended contact with the candidate. Take your time and vet the person thoroughly.
Charley Moore, founder of the legal services Web site Rocket Lawyer, was not looking for a replacement when he brought on Dan Nye, a former LinkedIn chief executive, as a board member. Over the course of a few passionate conversations, Mr. Moore said, ''it became clear he was falling in love with the business.'' The pair decided that Mr. Nye would join the company as executive director to evaluate daily interactions and think about how he might fit within the team.
Mr. Nye brought an intense focus on customer service and an analytical approach to new products. For instance, he suggested letting customers create a free legal document before entering a credit card number to sign up for a free trial of the service. The data that followed that decision was definitive: new accounts leapt from tens of thousands a month to more than 100,000 a month.
In the end, Mr. Moore was relieved to turn over day-to-day management as chief executive to Mr. Nye so he could close his door for long stretches of thinking and writing. Concentrating on both active leadership and deep analysis, Mr. Moore said, is ''almost impossible.''
OUTLINING YOUR ROLE It may be almost impossible to find a successor who will care as much as you do, make the same decisions you would and fulfill your expectations. Ask yourself whether you can resist meddling while someone else makes critical choices for the business you built. It may be better for you to make a clean break from the company. But if you decide to stay, avoid undermining your replacement's authority by agreeing on what your new role will be and ensuring it maximizes your abilities.
It is also important to understand that you may not be able to land the best talent unless you give up the reins. Farbood Nivi, founder of Grockit, says he could not attract candidates he thought were good enough to run his education technology company until he started searching for a chief executive. ''They wouldn't talk to me if I was doing a C.O.O. search,'' said Mr. Nivi, who turned over the chief executive's office to Roy Gilbert, a former Google executive, in September.
ENSURING A HEALTHY TRANSITION Once you have made your choice, the next challenge is to retain the successful aspects of the company's history and culture, while injecting new energy and tackling new goals. A transition period can help the new leader learn the ropes while giving you the comfort level you need to let go.
At a hair care company, Ouidad Holdings, the founder, Ouidad, who grew up in Lebanon and goes by one name, worked hand-in-hand with the new president, Hillary Solomon, for the first three years Ms. Solomon held the post. This August, Ouidad took her first monthlong family vacation since starting her salon in 1984 -- a long-awaited respite that prompted her to agree to outside investment and hiring a president in the first place. ''What I want to tell other entrepreneurs is that it's a very, very tough thing to do,'' Ouidad said. ''It is a partnership. You build it and when you feel comfortable, it's just like your husband.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



641 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Making the Decision To Replace Yourself

BYLINE: By KATHERINE REYNOLDS LEWIS

 BODY:
In early 2008, Matt Dorey, founder and chief executive of Curve Dental, was at a loss. Three years into building a comprehensive Web-based software package for dentists, he felt the product was ready, but he was not sure how to make Curve a market leader. ''The company was getting complicated,'' Mr. Dorey said. ''I was starting to become conscious of what I didn't know. It was almost a feeling of loneliness.''
Then he learned of a chief executive, Jim Pack, who was looking for new opportunities after a private equity firm bought his medical-billing software company, AdvancedMD. Mr. Dorey reached out with a LinkedIn invitation. ''This was someone I had been following for four years,'' he recalled. ''He was really open about sharing knowledge and letting us know about the challenges we face. I immediately knew there was nobody better to be the C.E.O. of this company.'' 
Mr. Dorey enlisted his board and top executives in a monthslong campaign to woo Mr. Pack, who ultimately agreed. Since Mr. Pack took over as chief executive in January 2009, Curve Dental has more than doubled its staff and has introduced its software to the American market, gaining share in more than 40 states and increasing its customer base fivefold. Picking the right replacement, Mr. Dorey said, ''was the most important decision I've ever made at Curve and probably will ever make.''
Turning over your company to a successor is not to be taken lightly. And in many cases, sticking it out might be the better option, especially if you can delegate those parts of your job that have become unmanageable. But in some instances replacing yourself at the helm makes sense. Based on the experiences of small-business owners, this guide offers suggestions on how to make that decision and accomplish the transition as painlessly as possible.
HOW DO YOU KNOW? Ironically, the qualities that help you succeed as an entrepreneur -- relentless optimism, willingness to tackle any challenge, a stubborn belief in yourself and your business -- also make it hard to assess your own weaknesses dispassionately. But one individual rarely possesses all the varied skills and experiences needed to take a company from idea to product introduction to sales growth to institutionalizing operations. When you hit your limit, you and your company may benefit from a leader with a fresh set of eyes and a different skill set.
Sequential sleepless nights can be an important warning sign, said Bo Fishback, vice president of entrepreneurship at the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation -- especially if you are worrying about the same problem and unable to make headway. Other red flags include a loss of excitement when entering the workplace, or suggestions from people close to you that it might be time to scale back.
When questions arise, not all owners have a choice. If you have taken venture capital money and your investors want a change, they are likely to get it. That is what happened at eBags, an online retailer based in Denver, when the board decided in April 2008 to replace the co-founder, Jon Nordmark, with an outside chief executive. ''It was personally very difficult because this is your baby,'' said Peter Cobb, an eBags senior vice president who had founded the business along with Mr. Nordmark. ''You care about it so much and you feel like nobody else will care about it as much.''
Mr. Nordmark was replaced by Vince Jones, part of a team that helped Walmart.com reach $1 billion in sales. After watching Mr. Jones bring in talented new executives and steer the company through the recession, Mr. Cobb is convinced that replacing his business partner was the right step, noting that revenue grew even during the recession. ''We were able to grow single digits,'' he said. ''That's almost like growing 30 percent in boom times.''
FINDING A REPLACEMENT When seeking a replacement, start with people already emotionally invested in your company. If possible, ''try before you buy,'' with a consulting or temporary role that is easier to reverse, suggested Noam T. Wasserman, an associate professor at Harvard Business School. If someone must be hired from outside, make sure you and your board have repeated and extended contact with the candidate. Take your time and vet the person thoroughly.
Charley Moore, founder of the legal services Web site Rocket Lawyer, was not looking for a replacement when he brought on Dan Nye, a former LinkedIn chief executive, as a board member. Over the course of a few passionate conversations, Mr. Moore said, ''it became clear he was falling in love with the business.'' The pair decided that Mr. Nye would join the company as executive director to evaluate daily interactions and think about how he might fit within the team.
Mr. Nye brought an intense focus on customer service and an analytical approach to new products. For instance, he suggested letting customers create a free legal document before entering a credit card number to sign up for a free trial of the service. The data that followed that decision was definitive: new accounts leapt from tens of thousands a month to more than 100,000 a month.
In the end, Mr. Moore was relieved to turn over day-to-day management as chief executive to Mr. Nye so he could close his door for long stretches of thinking and writing. Concentrating on both active leadership and deep analysis, Mr. Moore said, is ''almost impossible.''
OUTLINING YOUR ROLE It may be almost impossible to find a successor who will care as much as you do, make the same decisions you would and fulfill your expectations. Ask yourself whether you can resist meddling while someone else makes critical choices for the business you built. It may be better for you to make a clean break from the company. But if you decide to stay, avoid undermining your replacement's authority by agreeing on what your new role will be and ensuring it maximizes your abilities.
It is also important to understand that you may not be able to land the best talent unless you give up the reins. Farbood Nivi, founder of Grockit, says he could not attract candidates he thought were good enough to run his education technology company until he started searching for a chief executive. ''They wouldn't talk to me if I was doing a C.O.O. search,'' said Mr. Nivi, who turned over the chief executive's office to Roy Gilbert, a former Google executive, in September.
A HEALTHY TRANSITION Once you have made your choice, the next challenge is to retain the successful aspects of the company's history and culture, while injecting new energy and tackling new goals. A transition period can help the new leader learn the ropes while giving you the comfort level you need to let go.
At a hair care company, Ouidad Holdings, the founder, Ouidad, who grew up in Lebanon and goes by one name, worked hand-in-hand with the new president, Hillary Solomon, for the first three years Ms. Solomon held the post. This August, Ouidad took her first monthlong family vacation since starting her salon in 1984 -- a long-awaited respite that prompted her to agree to outside investment and hiring a president in the first place.
''What I want to tell other entrepreneurs is that it's a very, very tough thing to do,'' Ouidad said. ''It is a partnership. You build it and when you feel comfortable, it's just like your husband.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Dorey, founder of Curve Dental, realized he needed a chief executive who could make his company a market leader. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



642 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: So Long, Bailey Building & Loan

BYLINE: By ROB COX

 BODY:
This is the time of year when families gather to watch Jimmy Stewart play George Bailey, the small-town banker who learns the value of extending credit to his neighbors with a little angelic intervention in ''It's a Wonderful Life.'' Though Mr. Bailey remains emblematic of a benign banking system, most Americans probably don't realize he's the most endangered species in finance.
Hundreds of community banks, a fixture of small-town America, have failed or sold out to bigger rivals in the last year. But many more of the country's 7,650 smaller banks will disappear in the next few years -- a consequence, unintended or otherwise, of government and regulatory decisions codifying the biggest banks as infallible. 
As sad as that may sound, it may not be such a disaster for regulators, shareholders and, perhaps surprisingly, consumers. That's not to say the extinction of a species is to be blithely welcomed. Policy makers should certainly be asking whether there is a net negative consequence to rules and regulations that hasten the demise of the small, independent financial institution.
In some respects the spike in disappearing banks -- up to 300 this year -- simply represents a return to a long-term shift toward ever larger institutions that had slowed in the boom years of the last decade. At the beginning of the 1990s, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation oversaw 16,074 institutions. Within a decade that number had fallen to 10,222, an average net loss of 585 banks a year.
Over the next 10 years, however, the decline slowed. At the end of 2007, the number of institutions overseen by the F.D.I.C was shrinking at an average of 240 annually, mostly a result of mergers and acquisitions. The rate accelerated from 2008, thanks largely to failures -- 157 this year compared with three in 2007.
The beneficiaries of this trend have been the biggest banks. At the start of the 1990s there were 59 institutions with more than $10 billion in assets holding 31.8 percent of the nation's stock of banking assets. Today, their ranks have nearly doubled to 109, while their share of assets has marched upward to 78.6 percent.
It won't stop there. For one, the F.D.I.C.'s troubled bank list covers 860 institutions -- including many of the 600 or so that have yet to pay back bailout funds. While not all of them will be seized, many will wind up in the arms of larger, better-capitalized rivals.
Even healthy community banks are in for leaner times.
One of the reasons fewer banks vanished in the years leading up to the financial crisis was their reliance on commercial and residential property loans, which worked fine when prices were rising. But now they are being hit with big write-downs on those loans -- and can't see where they can profitably deploy future funds.
At the same time, their costs are rising, and earnings are coming under increased regulation. Just last week the Independent Community Bankers of America protested the Federal Reserve's plan to cap debit interchange fees to comply with the Dodd-Frank financial reform act, saying it would put small banks at a disadvantage and make ''the concept of 'free checking' a thing of the past.''
Big banks are also dealing with more red tape, but their size, diversity of businesses and loan portfolios gives them economies of scale to absorb such expenses without doing away with free checking to new depositors. From a policy perspective, it is arguably a terrible turn of events that megabanks bailed out during the crisis are now luring customers away from the George Baileys of the world.
But look at it another way: having a few, heavily regulated banks might actually be safer. Canada is dominated by five giant institutions. But because they were regulated like utilities, the country's financial system averted the need for big bailouts. It's also more profitable for shareholders. According to the F.D.I.C.'s third-quarter industry survey, big banks have better efficiency ratios and generate higher returns on assets and equity.
Finally, consumers might benefit from a smaller universe of stronger banks competing for their affections. At the least, there might be more credit available to them. In the second quarter, for every dollar of deposits customers stowed in the vaults of big banks, 86 cents was extended to borrowers, according to SNL Financial. Smaller banks lent out just 79 cents for every dollar of deposits.
George Bailey may have been a nice banker. But he just might have been more effective working as a senior loan officer for Bank of America's Bedford Falls branch. ROB COX

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry Travers, left, and James Stewart in a scene from ''It's a Wonderful Life.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RKO RADIO PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); MERGERS (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



643 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Census Figures Differ, but Changes Leave Two States Rattled: A Former Powerhouse Endures a Decade of Tarnish

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
CONSTANTINE, Mich. -- While every other state in the nation gained population over the past decade, Michigan shrank. And yet, as word seeped across frozen towns like this one on Wednesday, almost no one seemed even mildly surprised. This was, many here said with resignation, just one last, official confirmation of Michigan's long, grim and gloomy slide.
''We used to enjoy a bit of a strut,'' said Jerry Becker, a welder, recalling an era when Michigan's automotive powerhouses ruled the world and salaries here felt lavish. ''But that's long gone. We all know by now that everybody thinks of Michigan as a bad place to live -- a place that doesn't seem to have much of a future.'' 
If any state is ready to be done with the 2000s, it is this one.
Where the nation witnessed economic misery near the start and end of the decade, Michigan felt a slow burn throughout. Cities like Detroit and Flint pondered ways to shrink their sizes to save themselves. States like Wyoming and North Dakota, flush with jobs, tried to recruit out-of-work Michigan residents to relocate. And places like this old corn and soybean growing village of 2,095 people -- the self-proclaimed seed corn capital of the world -- watched companies, like the soda pop top factory here this fall, close up shop.
In 2009, 2008 and 2007, United Van Lines, the moving company, had proclaimed Michigan to have its largest percentage of ''outbound'' moves. But experts here who had dismissed those figures as not particularly scientific had less to say about the Census Bureau numbers released this week, which showed that Michigan's population shrank, for the first 10-year period since at least 1900. Not even Louisiana, which had weathered Hurricane Katrina, got smaller. Sure, Puerto Rico, a commonwealth, also lost population, but that seemed little solace here.
''This just underscores what everybody has known by now here -- it's a lost decade in Michigan,'' said Bill Ballenger, who publishes Inside Michigan Politics, a newsletter. ''Let's hope this never happens again.''
In Constantine nearly everyone has a story of departure: a client at the hair salon who lost her job and moved away; a former worker from the Rexam plant, which made plastic caps for drinks and employed 240 people, who on Wednesday was planning his move to Los Angeles to attend film school; and a long list of businesses -- groceries, the feed mill, the dry cleaner, the appliance shop -- that closed and left the downtown hushed.
''Look, this place is awesome and I would never leave,'' said Jamie Judsen, whose family has run Constantine Auto Parts and Hardware for generations and whose face reflected, like many here, a flash of local pride (and a bit of irritation) at being needlessly pitied by those who reside beyond Michigan's borders. ''But I've seen them go.''
In the simplest terms, state officials say, Michigan's .6 percent shrinkage to 9,883,640 people happened like this: A relatively low rate of people moved away, but a very low rate of people moved in from other states, or from other parts of the world.
Now some of the fallout is clear -- the loss, as in so much of the industrial Midwest, of a House member and a possible drop in federal money -- but there is a murkier psychic effect, which bubbled up as residents scanned The Kalamazoo Gazette's headline here: ''Michiganders Becoming Poorer and Older than Rest of U.S.''
''If I would have known 30 years ago what's going on today, I'd be in Kentucky,'' said Butch Vollmar, who pointed, by turns, to an array of causes for the state's troubles -- the shift in manufacturing, a ''terrible'' business climate in the state and a set of politicians he generally does not trust.
The new population figures come amid sweeping political change here. In about a week, Rick Snyder, a Republican and a political novice who ran on his business expertise, will replace Jennifer M. Granholm, a two-term Democrat, as governor. Mr. Snyder, perhaps most of all, seemed unsurprised by the state's diminishing numbers.
''This is part of the reason I ran for office,'' Mr. Snyder said in an interview. ''Fixing Michigan is not good enough. We really need to reinvent how we operate.''
Among measures to be considered: getting rid of the state's current business tax, turning to a two-year state budget cycle and, in Mr. Snyder's view, reshaping the state's culture. ''We need,'' he said, ''to stop looking in the rearview mirror.''
But for Tim Carlson, 50, it is probably too late. On Wednesday, he wandered the main drag in Constantine, where he grew up. But he will only be here briefly, to visit his parents. He lives in Seattle now. ''The West beckons the young,'' he said, his two small daughters in tow.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jamie Judsen's family has run Constantine Auto Parts and Hardware for generations. The business is now the only hardware store in the largely empty downtown of Constantine, Mich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA RIVKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Michigan: Population: 9,883,640 Change since 2000: A decrease of 0.6 percent Michigan will lose one seat in the House of Representatives, bringing its total to 14 seats, the fewest since 1920. Foreign-born residents make up 6 percent of the population
 9 percent speak a language other than English at home. Median age: 37.7 years Families below the poverty line: 10.3 percent Median value of owner-occupied homes: $147,500 Michigan's name is derived from the Ojibwe word ''michigama,'' which means ''large lake.'' Nicknames: The Great Lake State, the Wolverine State 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PACKING & MOVING SERVICES (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); RELOCATIONS (66%); SOYBEAN FARMING (65%); CORN FARMING (65%); SOFT DRINKS (64%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (64%); LIVESTOCK FEED MFG (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (62%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (60%); US TERRITORIES (50%)

COMPANY: REXAM PLC (51%)

TICKER: REX (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (58%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



644 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Why the Theater Needs More Holiday Cheer

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
Despite being described as ''instantly forgettable'' and ''a theatrical lump of coal'' by some critics, ''Elf,'' the adaptation of the Will Ferrell movie, has become a huge hit, grossing more than any show on Broadway last week except for ''The Lion King'' and ''Wicked.'' Audiences have also ignored the dismissive reviews for ''Donny & Marie: A Broadway Christmas,'' one of only a handful of shows that topped $1 million in weekly ticket sales.
The reason for these blockbuster successes is obvious to anyone who has tried to organize a large family outing this time of year. Audiences want to see uplifting, holiday-theme family fare, and if it provides a respite from shopping, cooking and struggling to get along with the in-laws, they will pay top dollar for it. 
What is more mysterious, however, is why so many in the American theater routinely overlook this fertile commercial opportunity. Mainstream producers annually cede the territory of new, smart (or at least not-dumb) holiday stories to the movies.
War horses like ''The Radio City Christmas Spectacular'' are still kicking, and theaters throughout the country dutifully trot out stale revivals of ''A Christmas Carol.'' But absent from the theatrical menu, especially on Broadway and in the large, prestigious nonprofit houses, are original holiday dramas that are entertaining, accessible and even sentimental.
Especially sentimental. You need only notice the music in stores and the movies advertised in newspapers to conclude that people want a little sentiment in December. They just don't want to drown in it.
The grumpy singer Bob Dylan put together a Christmas album. Bill Murray made the comedy ''Scrooged.'' By contrast, it's rare for a major playwright to risk a holiday play.
Paula Vogel, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of ''How I Learned To Drive,'' is a rare exception. When her ''Civil War Christmas,'' which mixes fictional characters with historical figures like Ulysses S. Grant, was produced at Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, Charles Isherwood wrote in The New York Times that it was ''the rare holiday entertainment that brings intellectual nourishment as much as it entertains.'' Two years later the drama has still not appeared in New York.
The absence of creative thinking about holiday entertainment in the theater is baffling. Imagine if Manhattan Theater Club, Playwrights Horizons or Second Stage Theater commissioned a talented young playwright to create a new heartwarming drama, with the only limitation being that Christmas or Hanukkah had to be in the title. Is this a crass strategy? Of course, but no more so than casting an inexperienced television star when a lesser-known actor would better serve a play.
It also just might work. The offbeat holiday show ''Brian Dykstra's Ho!'' has sold extremely well, and Steven Banks's ''Looking at Christmas,'' which received lukewarm reviews at the Flea Theater, outperformed expectations.
In general, smaller theaters have been quicker to capitalize on the season, programming irreverent takes on the holidays like the Brick Theater's recently closed ''Dar and Matey's Christmas SpectaculARGH,'' or more straightforward family fare like a musical version of ''A Christmas Carol'' at Players Theater. ''Holiday shows downtown almost always do well,'' said the veteran publicist Ron Lasko. ''I have never worked on a holiday show that totally bombed.''
While people like to divide the world into the crassly commercial and the purely artistic, the reality is that the challenge for most theaters is in striking a balance. The Roundabout Theater has programmed a revival of ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' this month, which is nice. But why not use the built-in audience for holiday entertainment to try something entirely new? Or at least that hasn't already been on Broadway eight times?
When critics lament the state of Broadway, they rightly focus on the challenges of finding an audience for ambitious shows like the recently closed musical ''The Scottsboro Boys.'' As a result we sometimes overlook the more intractable problem that provides a broader explanation for the dearth of savvy holiday cheer on New York stages: such middle-of-the-road entertainment is in steep decline in the commercial theater.
The boulevard comedy and the popular well-made play are endangered species on Broadway. The economics of the form have raised the stakes to a point where only the highest and lowest brow can survive. If a theatergoer spends several hundred dollars to bring the family to a show once or twice a year, the understandable hope is for something singularly special. Stars! Standing ovations! Above all, an event!
Besides the fact that this over-hyped environment can become hostile to making good work, it also ignores the fact that most theater is not an event. We are lucky to find inspiration and genius onstage and just as often discover disaster, but audiences, I suspect, would be happy with at least the option for something in between.
A perfectly pleasing Neil Simon comedy, however, just won't do anymore. And a perfectly pleasing Neil Simon comedy was what producers and artists on Broadway once did better than anyone else.
It's easy to look down your nose at such light entertainments. I certainly have. But at the risk of sounding a little like Jimmy Stewart in ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' it's often only when something is nearly gone that you begin to appreciate its actual value. Major theaters should deliver more daring experiments and psychologically rich and intellectually challenging drama. But sometimes, especially during the holidays, you just want a nice night out for a reasonable price.
Before my night out, though, I have to finish wrapping gifts. Now it's your turn to continue the conversation. Are there shows you've seen that would brings us all a little more holiday cheer?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sebastian Arcelus in ''Elf.'' (C1)
Betsy Lippitt and Raul Sigmund Julia in ''Looking at Christmas,'' about holiday courtship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAN MARCUS)
 Faith Philpot in Paula Vogel's ''Civil War Christmas.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. CHARLES ERICKSON)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM (89%); WRITERS (89%); MUSIC (87%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); TICKET SALES (72%); CIVIL WAR (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); HANUKKAH (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); HISTORY (66%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



645 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
THE MEANING OF NO The Airgas board rejected the latest offer of $70 a share from Air Products and Chemicals, stating that the offer ''is inadequate, does not reflect the value or prospects of Airgas and is not in the best interests of Airgas, its shareholders and other constituencies.'' The Deal Professor examines the rejection and finds five possible interpretations of the statement. STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF 
THE GIFT OF GUNS For employees of AlixPartners, finding a last-minute holiday gift may have gotten a little easier.
Thanks to some holiday generosity from a client, Cerberus Capital Management's Remington Arms, staff members at the consultancy can choose from an array of rifles and shotguns -- with a 33 percent discount. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED INHERITING CASES When Eric T. Schneiderman, below, is sworn in as New York State attorney general, he will assume a large caseload.
If anyone needed a reminder of that fact, Mr. Schneiderman's predecessor, Governor-elect Andrew M. Cuomo, provided it on Tuesday when he sued Ernst & Young for its dealings as the longtime outside auditor for the collapsed investment bank Lehman Brothers.
The lawsuit turned heads in part because it is rare for an outgoing attorney general to commence such high-level litigation in his waning days. But it is hardly the only matter that will be passed along to Mr. Schneiderman. THOMAS KAPLAN
REPAYING TARP LOANS Six more banks have repaid the government bailout money they received during the financial crisis, reaping $2.7 billion in proceeds for taxpayers, the Treasury Department announced Wednesday afternoon. The institutions that repaid money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program are Huntington Bancshares, First Horizon National, Wintrust Financial, Susquehanna Bancshares, Heritage Financial and Bank of Kentucky Financial.
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%); BAILOUTS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); GOVERNORS (53%)

COMPANY: AIR PRODUCTS & CHEMICALS INC (91%); AIRGAS INC (90%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); BANK OF KENTUCKY FINANCIAL CORP (53%); SUSQUEHANNA BANCSHARES INC (53%); WINTRUST FINANCIAL CORP (53%); HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INC (53%)

TICKER: APD (NYSE) (91%); ARG (NYSE) (90%); BKYF (NASDAQ) (53%); SUSQ (NASDAQ) (53%); WTFC (NASDAQ) (53%); HBAN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (91%); NAICS424690 OTHER CHEMICAL & ALLIED PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (90%); SIC5169 CHEMICALS & ALLIED PRODUCTS, NEC (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



646 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise After News Of Economy's Growth

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks gained on Wednesday, sending the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index higher for a fifth day as government data showed the economy grew last quarter at a faster pace than previously estimated. 
Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase rose at least 2.8 percent after lawmakers denied budget increases that regulators said were needed to meet responsibilities imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act. Walgreen gained 5.48 percent after it reported profit that beat analysts' estimates. Carnival rose 3.12 percent as S.& P. equity analysts advised buying the stock.
The S.& P. 500-stock index rose 4.24 points, or 0.34 percent, to 1,258.84, the highest since Sept. 8, 2008. The Dow Jones industrial average added 26.33 points, or 0.23 percent, to 11,559.49. The Nasdaq composite index rose 3.87 points, or 0.15 percent, to 2,671.48.
''I'm bullish on stocks regardless of what G.D.P. revisions look like,'' said Dan T. Veru, co-chief investment officer at Palisade Capital Management in Fort Lee, N.J. ''The economic picture is getting better, corporate earnings are stronger. I don't think anybody should say that the market is overvalued or undervalued.''
The nation's economy expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in the third quarter, indicating a pickup in growth that may extend into 2011 as companies and consumers gain confidence to spend. The revised increase in gross domestic product compares with a 2.5 percent estimate issued last month and was less than the median forecast of 2.8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.
''The economy is on the right track, but people need to understand that it's happening at a moderate pace,'' said Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates in St. Petersburg, Fla. ''I'm constructive going into 2011. However, with sentiment being so bullish for stocks, you have the potential for a pullback or air pocket over the next month.''
Banks had the biggest gain in the S.& P. 500 among 24 industries, rallying 1.7 percent. Federal financial regulators, struggling for months with budgets unequipped to handle new responsibilities imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, will be forced to go an additional 10 weeks without a financing increase.
Bank of America advanced 3.08 percent, to $13.38. JPMorgan climbed 2.83 percent, to $42.16. Walgreen gained 5.48 percent, to $38.85 after reporting a first-quarter profit of 62 cents a share.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



647 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Renewed Interest in Converting Natural Gas Into Diesel

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Diesel and jet fuel are usually made from crude oil. But with oil prices rising even as a glut of natural gas keeps prices for that fuel extraordinarily cheap, a bit of expensive alchemy is suddenly starting to look financially appealing: turning natural gas into liquid fuels.
A South African firm, Sasol, announced Monday that it would spend just over 1 billion Canadian dollars to buy a half-interest in a Canadian shale gas field, so it can explore turning natural gas into diesel and other liquids. Sasol's proprietary conversion technology was developed decades ago to help the apartheid government of South Africa survive an international oil embargo, and it is a refinement of the ones used by the Germans to make fuel for the Wehrmacht during World War II. 
The technology takes ''a lot of money and a lot of effort,'' said Michael E. Webber, associate director of the Center for International Energy Environmental Policy at the University of Texas, Austin. ''You wouldn't do this if you could find easy oil,'' he said.
But with the huge spread between oil and gas prices, and predictions of oil topping $100 a barrel next year, the conversion technology could be a ''a money-maker for whoever is a first mover in that space.''
Several other companies have intermittently tried to make liquid fuels from natural gas or coal. For example, the energy company Baard has been planning a coal-to-liquids plant in Ohio but has not been able to pull the pieces together, and Peabody Coal has discussed a similar plant.
Sasol figures that the natural gas needed for a gallon of diesel, plus operating costs, comes to about $1.50 a gallon. In comparison, a gallon of diesel made from crude oil now costs more than $2, even before refining, and many forecasts are for the price of oil to go higher.
But there is a hefty cost of building the chemical plant to do the conversion, which might run over $1.5 billion for a new Canadian plant that would handle 40,000 barrels a day.
The calculations also exclude another cost: greenhouse gas emissions, which may be higher for a conversion plant than a typical refinery, depending on how the work is done.
''Everything ugly is in vogue again,'' said Josh Mogerman, an energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, which has been fighting a proposed coal-to-liquids plant in Ohio.
From a financial perspective, the technology is far from ugly. A barrel of oil has historically cost one to two times as much as the equivalent amount of energy from natural gas. But right now, vast supplies of natural gas from shale formations in North America have driven prices down, so oil is triple the price of the gas equivalent.
The new ratio creates ''a very attractive economic option,'' said Lean Strauss, senior group executive at Sasol.
While the operating costs favor conversion, the cost to build the chemical plant is another matter; gas-to-liquids plants are far more capital-intensive than traditional refineries that make the same products from crude oil.
A plant opened by Sasol in Qatar in 2006, in partnership with the national oil company, Qatar Petroleum, cost $37,000 per barrel of daily capacity, but costs in Canada would be higher, Mr. Strauss said. Sasol produces 160,000 barrels a day of its liquids -- diesel, naphtha and propane -- in South Africa. It also turns out jet fuel, which is routinely blended into fuel for airliners departing from Johannesburg. In August, Sasol supplied 100 percent of the fuel for a Boeing 737 flight from Johannesburg to Cape Town.
In the deal announced Monday, Sasol acquired a 50 percent stake in Farrell Creek shale gas assets, in British Columbia. With the other owner, Talisman Energy, it will begin a feasibility study early next year on building a gas-to-liquids plant, and Talisman will have the option to own 50 percent of that.
Sasol is building a similar plant in Nigeria with Chevron, and last month, it completed a feasibility study in Uzbekistan. It also recently submitted a proposal to Shenhau, the Chinese coal company, for a similar plant.
The Sasol process cooks a hydrocarbon, either coal or natural gas, into a fuel gas made of hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Using a patented process that involves cobalt catalysts, it converts that gas into a mix of liquids: 80 percent diesel fuel, 15 percent naphtha and 5 percent liquid propane.
But the process is not 100 percent efficient. In fact, the finished product has only about 62 percent as much energy as the raw material did.
In addition to losing energy, the process creates excess carbon dioxide, compared to burning the natural gas or coal directly for energy. But starting with natural gas, said Mr. Strauss, the amount of carbon dioxide released per finished gallon of liquid fuel was comparable to the carbon footprint of a gallon from a traditional refinery.
Environmentalists are not so sure. ''It's unclear right now,'' said Simon Mui, a scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''There hasn't been a large global experience in natural gas to liquids.''
But, he added, ''it's definitely not a greenhouse gas reduction strategy.'' And recovery of gas from shale can itself be energy intensive and environmentally challenging, he said.
The Sasol move comes as Canada is increasing its production of oil from oil sands, which is clearly carbon-intensive. Environmentalists in the United States are trying to stop large-scale imports of oil from oil sands.
Mr. Mogerman, of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that given the historical market prices for oil and natural gas, only countries with no other choice had pursued the conversion process. ''The only ones who've done it are people with their backs against the wall, and who had no financial considerations,'' he said.
But if oil prices stay high and gas prices remain low because of shale gas, that view could be history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); JET FUEL (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GAS TO LIQUIDS TECHNOLOGY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (54%); WORLD WAR II (54%)

COMPANY: SASOL LTD (92%); PEABODY ENERGY CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

TICKER: SSL (NYSE) (92%); SOL (JSE) (92%); BTU (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324199 ALL OTHER PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (83%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



648 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Census Figures Differ, but Changes Leave Two States Rattled: Hopes for Easy Economic Jackpot Quickly Evaporate

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Ian Lovett contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

 BODY:
HENDERSON, Nev. -- By any measure, it should have been a cause for celebration in a place that surely needs one. The Census Bureau reported that Nevada grew by 35 percent over the last decade, making it the fastest-growing state in the nation.
Instead, it was another reminder of how bad things have become here, and how exhausting a decade this state has endured. This was the boom capital of the country -- which explains the census report -- until the economy collapsed in 2007. People started moving out, chasing jobs or escaping a house market with the highest foreclosure rate in the country. Unemployment here is now 14.3 percent, the highest in the country. 
''People come for the good jobs and the good life, and if that's no longer here, they are gone,'' said David F. Damore, an associate professor of political science at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. ''People are just moving out.''
The state demographer, Jeff Hardcastle, estimated that Nevada had lost more than 90,000 people since July 2008, and expects the decline to continue through next year. He said that before 2007, Nevada had been the top-growing state for most of the past 20 years.
People are leaving in search of more prosperous economic climates. But analysts said the state's population had been hurt by a declining birthrate, not uncommon during tough economic times, and illegal immigrants leaving, or at least avoiding census takers as public attitudes toward them turned harsh.
Here in Henderson, a place of once seemingly unstoppable sprawl, there were banners Wednesday advertising cut-rate deals on homes built where there was desert 20 years ago. Or worse: places like Vantage Lofts on Horizon Ridge Road, a housing complex abandoned in mid-construction. A pile of exposed glass, plywood and cement, surrounded by chain-link fences, gave testimony to the hopes, and unfounded speculation, of developers.
Indeed, many of the abandoned or underused housing, office and retail developments were built by speculators drawn by what once seemed the prospect of endless growth, the lure of Wild West development and the promise of an economic jackpot. ''Prior to 2007, the underlying assumption was, build it and they will come,'' Mr. Hardcastle said.
Robert A. Fielden, an architect and urban planner in Henderson, said the state has been particularly hurt by real estate speculators who flipped property for profit and then just walked. ''We have never faced anything like this before,'' he said, reflecting the despair that can be heard in the voices of even Nevada's biggest boosters.
''What we are living with now is, we let the free market reign without any controls at all. We talk about the United States being built on capitalism. But this wasn't capitalism. This was greed.''
The population rankings are based on percentages, rather than raw numbers, which gives small states like Nevada an advantage on lists like this: It does not take many people moving in to produce a big percentage. The Census Bureau found the population here had increased from just under 2 million in 2000 to 2.7 million at the end of 2010.
And there was one very obvious benefit of all this: The size of the state's Congressional delegation grew by one seat to four.
''We've had serious economic setbacks,'' said Representative Shelley Berkley, a Democrat who represents Las Vegas. ''But even that doesn't begin to dwarf the enormous growth over the last five decades. I think it's a very positive thing that we qualified for a fourth seat.''
Yet these numbers seem certain to only encourage the fundamental reassessment that has been going on in Nevada about its economic future, amid evidence that the construction boom that produced so many jobs is gone, and that tourism alone will not be able to make up the slack.
''The real big challenge for Nevada is, what's going to happen to our growth industries,'' Billy Vassiliadis, the chief executive of the advertising agency that represents the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. ''That to me is why the future is questionable.''
''At this point,'' he added, ''I wouldn't be looking for a fifth Congressional seat after the 2020 census.''
Stephen P.A. Brown, director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at U.N.L.V., said any future growth in population was directly related to the state's ability to rebuild its economy -- and, of course, an influx of more people who would contribute to the state's economic growth. ''There is no indication that people are moving back into the state at this point,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Aria Resort and Casino, part of the $11 billion City Center complex on the Las Vegas Strip, opened in December 2009, after the recession began hitting the gambling industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Nevada: Population: 2,700,551 Change since 2000: An increase of 35.1 percent Nevada will gain one seat in the House of Representatives, giving the state four seats, its most ever. Foreign-born residents make up 18.7 percent of the state's population
 27.5 percent speak a language other than English at home. Median age: 35.3 years Families below the poverty line: 8 percent Median value of owner-occupied homes: $275,300 The word ''nevada,'' in Spanish, roughly means snow-covered. Nickname: the Silver State 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); FORECLOSURE (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (53%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) NEVADA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



649 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Hard-Fought Victories, As Battles Loom Anew

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The 111th Congress ended as it began two years ago, with a burst of legislative productivity, as Democrats forced through a historic social change by lifting the ban on gay men and lesbians serving openly in the military and a major foreign policy achievement in approving the New Start arms control treaty with Russia.
Along the way, they enacted a landmark health care law and a sweeping overhaul of Wall Street rules, bookended by a $787 billion economic stimulus package at the start of 2009 and an $858 billion tax-cut package at the end of 2010.
It was a dizzying, maddening, agonizing, exhilarating, arduous, bruising and, for scores of Democrats, ultimately career-ending journey from the stimulus to Start -- and the party paid a devastating price for its accomplishments, losing control of the House and six Senate seats. 
It is a period that will no doubt be pored over by historians for years.
But it is already clear that much of the next two years will be spent fighting over what was done in the past two.
''They have been enormously successful in one sense in passing their legislative agenda,'' Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said of Democrats. ''The problem is the country just doesn't like it very much.''
The Democrats' biggest victories were secured on party-line or near-party-line votes, and some lawmakers predicted partisan animosity would spill over into the 112th Congress, raising a question of whether it would be characterized by deal-making or deadlock.
As many Democrats cast their last votes on Wednesday, top lawmakers said that most of them considered their defeat well worth the price considering the legislative victories they wrote into the history books, accomplishments that have prompted comparisons to the progressive glory days of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal and Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society.
''Almost every member who lost, without fail, has said, 'I am proud of the work,' '' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader. ''They say, 'If it cost me my election, I can point to the fact that I was a member of the productive Congress that did health care, did credit cards, did student loan reform, just go through the entire list.' ''
Democrats also disputed that the election results were a repudiation of their agenda and pointed instead at the hard times many Americans are suffering through. ''The economy has been awful all over the country,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader. ''The economy is the reason you had the uproar from the Tea Party. That's all it was.''
At a news conference on Wednesday, just as the House and Senate were wrapping up, President Obama -- the catalyst for much of what happened, substantively and politically -- called the 111th Congress the most productive in generations and said the postelection legislative blitz proved that the two parties could work together.
''If there's any lesson to draw from these past few weeks, it's that we are not doomed to endless gridlock,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We've shown in the wake of the November elections that we have the capacity not only to make progress, but to make progress together.''
The ability of Congressional Democrats, in concert with Mr. Obama, to push through a string of major initiatives in some sense conflicted with the notion that Congress is broken and dysfunctional.
But the advent of divided government next month will test the ability of Congress anew. Even Democrats happy with the outcome of the past two years say the process was often ugly and allowed Republicans to cast much of the legislation as flawed.
Measures that have almost become afterthoughts -- pay equity for women and the new power of the Food and Drug Administration to regulate tobacco, for instance -- could have been signature achievements in other Congresses. And the Senate confirmed two of Mr. Obama's nominees to the Supreme Court -- both women, one Hispanic.
''You're president of the United States and you get two women on the Supreme Court? Bang, bang,'' said Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington. ''That's historic.''
But the fights over the stimulus, health care, financial regulation and, most recently, tax policy, dominated the landscape and obscured how Congress failed in other respects.
Because of the time those fights consumed -- and the eagerness of lawmakers to avoid tough votes in a charged partisan atmosphere -- the Congressional spending and budget process completely collapsed this year for the first time in a quarter-century and Congress did not fulfill its most basic responsibility, allocating money to federal agencies.
That lapse sets up a spending fight early in the next Congress over financing the government for the remainder of the fiscal year while House Republicans try to carry out their plan to cut $100 billion in domestic spending.
Returning for the lame-duck, Democrats put an exclamation point on the session, squeezing through a raft of priorities despite concerted Republican resistance, particularly in the Senate where Democrats were forced to thread the procedural needle time after time.
Republican leaders discovered that the power of the minority only extended so far if Democrats were tenacious and were able -- as with the repeal of ''don't ask, don't tell'' and the Start treaty -- to lure decisive numbers of Republicans away from the leadership's opposition.
Many Republicans complained bitterly in recent days that Democrats were ignoring their rejection in the election and abusing their last weeks of Congressional control to jam through a final flurry of expensive, intrusive programs. And they said efforts by Democrats to score political points by forcing a vote on an immigration measure they knew would fail had angered Republicans and diminished their interest in a major immigration overhaul in the next Congress.
''I think it has hurt,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.
Republicans did score some some victories of their own in the final days. The compromise that extended Bush-era tax cuts even on the highest incomes and provided a generous exemption for the estates of affluent families was embraced by wide Republican majorities. And they managed to derail a giant $1.2 trillion spending plan that was stuffed with tens of millions of dollars of pet spending projects, delaying crucial spending decisions until early next year when they will run the House and have more clout in the Senate.
At the same time, House and Senate Republicans have pledged to work to repeal the health care law and deny financing for other newly passed initiatives, like the tighter financial regulation.
But Republicans also say the new dynamic on Capitol Hill will put them in a much stronger position to take the offensive and challenge Mr. Obama and Senate Democrats by initiating conservative bills in the House and pushing for Senate floor votes. Even if they fail on some bills, Republicans say, they will make the case to expand their control from the House to the Senate and the White House in 2012.
''The big part is showing America what we stand for,'' said Senator Jim DeMint, the conservative South Carolina Republican.
Even as he celebrated the successes, Mr. Obama acknowledged the obstacles ahead. ''I'm not naive,'' he said. ''I know there will be tough fights.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, on Wednesday. He retires at the end of this session. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); CONTUSIONS (75%); TAX LAW (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); TAX RELIEF (70%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN CORNYN (59%); HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); STENY HOYER (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



650 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: House Hunting in ... Costa Rica

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
A TWO-BEDROOM TWO-AND-A-HALF-BATH BALINESE-STYLE HOUSE IN UVITA, COSTA RICA
$925,000
This home about a quarter mile from the ocean is surrounded by jungle. It was built in 2004 to resemble the open-air homes popular in Indonesia. The main living area is open to the elements, and connected by a series of steps to the pool deck. Countertops in the kitchen and bathrooms are made of local stone. Floors throughout are tiled. The half bath and an office are off the kitchen.
The master and guest suites are in separate buildings on either side of the pool. The master bedroom has air-conditioning, and a walk-in closet with a dehumidifier to keep clothes fresh in the moist jungle atmosphere. Baths in each suite have screened-in outdoor showers. The guest suite has a private deck. The property has a fourth structure, a 900-square-foot cottage for household staff. Currently a staff of two maintains the 1.2-acre property year round. 
The main house and the master suite have views of Ballena National Marine Park, a breeding ground for humpback whales. Restaurants and bars in the village of Ojochal are five minutes away by car. The nearest airport is 40 minutes away in Quepos.
MARKET OVERVIEW
Prices have dropped 20 to 30 percent since the onset of the financial downturn in 2007, particularly in Jaco, a popular tourist destination with many condominium developments on Costa Rica's Central Pacific Coast, said Federico Vega, a commercial manager at Stewart Title, a title insurance company in San Jose. Still, there is some movement at the lower end, with condos selling for around $200,000, Mr. Vega added.
In Costa Ballena, another popular tourist area and the site of this home, prices have fallen even further since 2007, 40 to 50 percent, said Ben Vaughn, owner of Guys in the Zone, a real estate company in Uvita.
Mr. Vaughn says most of the vacation homes near Uvita sit on the mountainside overlooking the ocean, and are accessible only via four-wheel-drive vehicles. He estimates that these houses usually sell for around $500,000.
The house featured here is priced higher because it is within walking distance of the beach, and built on a flat lot accessible by any vehicle, said John Wieland, president of the Coldwell Banker Vesta Group Dominical, who is the listing agent.
WHO BUYS IN COSTA RICA
''Historically, our buyers have been 75 percent American, 3 percent Canadian and 22 percent Costa Rican,'' said William Royster, the developer of Los Suenos Resort and Marina. Now, he said, the number of Costa Rican buyers is growing.
Mr. Vega said the economic downturn in North America had also encouraged buyers from other Latin countries, especially Venezuela, Colombia and Panama.
BUYING BASICS
Foreign property owners have the same rights as Costa Ricans, according to Mr. Royster, who explained that within 200 meters (about 650 feet) of the midpoint of the tide, coastal ownership is restricted. (The house featured here does not fall within the restricted zone.) Buyers seeking property in the restricted zone must be granted a special concession from the government.
Many foreigners set up corporations as a means of buying property; the process costs $400 to $700 and takes 30 to 60 days, Mr. Wieland said.
Total transaction costs are about 2 percent of the purchase price, according to Mr. Vaughn. Properties in Costa Rica are almost always priced in United States dollars.
WEB SITES
Costa Rica tourism: tourism.co.cr/
Official site of Puntarenas: puntarenas-cr.com
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
Spanish; colones (1 colon = $0.002)
TAXES AND FEES
Annual property taxes come to 0.25 percent of the purchase price, Mr. Wieland said. If construction costs exceeded $200,000, there is an additional 0.3 percent luxury tax.
CONTACT
This property is jointly marketed by Properties in Costa Rica and Coldwell Banker Vesta Group Dominical, John Wieland, (877) 309-9238; dominicalrealty.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (86%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); BEACHES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); LEISURE TRAVEL (69%); TITLE INSURANCE (68%); TOURISM (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (58%) COSTA RICA (98%); INDONESIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); PANAMA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



651 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Personal Tech; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech Electronics Dressed Up to Look Old

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT

 BODY:
This has been a great year for the next new electronic thing. The iPad, new iPhone, the Nexus S, HTC Evo and other Android phones, the Kindle 3 and Microsoft's Kinect caught the eye of consumers.
But some people prefer their next new thing to look like an old thing. So what's the appeal of the latest electronics wrapped in a retro design, like full-size jukeboxes that are really $4,000 iPod docks and manual typewriters reconfigured to work as U.S.B. keyboards? Has anyone ever said, ''It's a nice Ferrari, but it would be cooler if it looked like a covered wagon?'' 
There are theories: the throwback designs make challenging technology seem familiar. For the technically proficient, an old phone handset that connects to a cellphone seems comically ironic. Retro designs can also give a sense of permanence to disposable devices. Some of it is art.
An example of the phenomena is a manual typewriter refashioned as a computer keyboard. Jack Zylkin of Philadelphia made one as a novel way for people to sign in when visiting Hive76, a Philadelphia communal studio for electronics tinkerers. ''I thought it would be kind of a lark,'' he said. ''I didn't realize there was such demand for them.'' Now he is turning out several typewriters a week, with a two- to three-week lead time for new orders.
Mr. Zylkin says he starts with a typewriter that has been refurbished by a retired Remington salesman, then wires it with a sensor board that recognizes when a key is pressed. It leads to a U.S.B. plug that makes the typewriter work like any computer keyboard. Even if the type bar doesn't hit the platen, a computer will recognize the input, but if you bang the keys hard enough you can make an old-school hard copy on paper while a computer also records your keystrokes.
The typewriters sell for $600 to $900 at the Web site Etsy, although it is $400 if you supply your own typewriter. If you are handy with a soldering iron, you can buy Mr. Zylkin's do-it-yourself conversion kit for $70.
A variation of this theme of fashioning the old into new relies on the smart design of the old Western Electric Bell telephones. Consider the handset. Unlike today's telephone earpieces and cabled headphone and mic arrangements, the large handset put the speaker over the ear and the microphone next to the mouth so bystanders weren't forced to listen to bellowed phone conversations.
The gadget purveyors ThinkGeek have taken that old handset and added Bluetooth so you can have some privacy while connected wirelessly to a mobile phone. The $25 handset can transmit and receive at a distance of about 30 feet from your phone.
Crosley Radio has been making the old new again since the early 1980s when a group of investors bought a discarded radio brand and started cranking out replica radios. The company has replica Wurlitzer-style jukeboxes that play music from CDs or iPods. ''What really rolls out the door is the turntables, that has been a runaway train,'' said James P. LeMastus, president of Crosley.
The company has had a hit with the Crosley AV Room Portable U.S.B. turntable, made exclusively for the youth-oriented clothing chain Urban Outfitters.
The $160 portable player has built-in speakers and an amp, and a U.S.B. connection so it can be used with a computer to turn songs on vinyl records into MP3s. The company makes about 25 styles of turntables, some with iPod docks and CD and cassette tape players and recorders. They can be found at stores including Restoration Hardware, Pottery Barn and online.
The Yeti from Blue Microphones may look like something from the golden age of radio, but it is the first THX-certified microphone, meaning it is capable of high-fidelity reproduction. While it looks as if it belongs on the desk of Walter Winchell, it has three built-in miniature mics that can capture sound three ways: from just in front of the mic, in stereo or from an entire room.
The Yeti works on PCs and Macs and requires no software drivers to work, although there is a free recording program for it in the iTunes store. Good enough to record your band's demo, the $150 mic is also popular with podcasters and VoiP users who want to sound as smooth as Orson Welles.
The X-Tube looks like a vacuum tube from inside an old radio that would have broadcast Mr. Welles. It's really a small processor that plugs into a computer through a U.S.B. connection to produce surround sound for headphones. The warm glow? A blue LED light.
The device processes DTS Surround Sensation software to alter the volume of certain frequencies and add delays to some sounds, all psychoacoustic tricks to fool the brain into perceiving sound as coming not just from left and right, but from the front and back as well. The device, which comes with over-the-ear headphones, isn't easy to find in the United States, but can be ordered from Japan for about $95.
Sometimes, retro designers cloak the electronics in something other than older electronics. Makers of laptop covers usually brag about the high-tech materials they use: high-impact plastics, advanced neoprenes or carbon fiber. Twelve South brags that its MacBook Pro and iPad cases use old-fashioned bookbinding technology. The covers are leather-bound and distressed to look like a collectible volume. The cases have a hard cover on top and bottom, with a zipper around the center to keep your computer secure.
The BookBook covers are priced at $80 to $100, depending on the size of your computer. The company says the covers disguise the device inside and could deter thieves -- unless they know that many collectible books are worth far more than the next new thing.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 25, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on the Personal Tech pages on Thursday about retro design for high-tech electronics misspelled the surname of the filmmaker and actor whose distinctive voice was recalled in describing the abilities of a high-fidelity microphone made to look like one from the golden age of radio. He was Orson Welles, not Wells.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The U.S.B. Typewriter.
Yeti THX-certified microphone.
ThinkGeek Bluetooth handset.
Surround-sound X-Tube.
BookBook Mac- Book Pro case.
 Crosley portable U.S.B. turntable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (69%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



652 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Alternatives to Berlusconi?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Italy's Crisis of Confidence'' (editorial, Dec. 16): 
Pundits, politicians and more than a few Italians repulsed by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's narrow victory in the recent parliamentary vote of confidence might find the alternatives even more unpalatable.
A caretaker government would be nothing more than a stopgap interregnum. And early elections could give rise to a stronger Northern League -- emboldening its divisive and xenophobic founder, Umberto Bossi.
For all his flaws, ''Berlusconi has been the touchstone of Italian politics for the last 15 years.'' Thus wrote Elizabeth Dibble, a senior diplomat advising President Obama in 2009. And the United States Embassy in Rome has lauded Mr. Berlusconi for coming ''through on our top (military) requests, despite domestic political risks.''
Moreover, Italy, with the continent's third largest economy, has ably weathered the global financial meltdown, instituted rigorous pension reforms and pared its public debt.
As Machiavelli noted: ''In the actions of all men, and especially of princes who are not subject to a court of appeal, we must always look to the end.''
Rosario A. Iaconis Vice Chairman The Italic Institute of America Mineola, N.Y., Dec. 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); APPEALS COURTS (51%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (91%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



653 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: A New Chance for Bipartisanship, All Posturing Aside

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Despite a flurry of bipartisan votes, the 111th Congress closed out its run this week with a new round of partisan recrimination. Deposed House Democrats forced a series of votes before their gavels could be pried from their hands, while Republican leaders fumed over the last-minute lawmaking and darkly hinted at revenge. If the Capitol had a caption, it would read: ''To be continued. ...''
And yet, it's possible that President Obama and newly empowered Republicans may actually find more to talk about in the next Congress than they did in the last. That's because, all the vows of cooperation immediately after the 2008 election notwithstanding, there were structural reasons that probably prevented both sides from getting there. And for all the partisan posturing now, there are structural reasons to think they still might. 
''Structural,'' in this case, refers to the circumstances that both parties were dealt by the 2008 elections -- that is, the makeup of the majorities in Congress and the number of votes commanded by either side. In the case of the 111th Congress, that meant Democrats had a 15-seat advantage in the Senate and a whopping 78-seat majority in the House.
Such lopsided numbers made Mr. Obama a powerful president when it came to enacting his agenda. And yet, looking back now, those same majorities probably made it almost impossible for him to realize his stated goal of building cross-party coalitions with Republicans in Congress.
Consider first the House, where Republicans decided early on that they would oppose the president at every turn. The calculus here was simple, if a bit cynical: because their numbers were so diluted, Republicans weren't going to get credit for any legislative victories anyway. They decided, instead, to make a show of trying to block the agenda and hope that voters would blame Democrats for the painfully slow economic recovery -- which, as it turned out, they did.
Democrats, meanwhile, were still feeling bone-bruised from being pushed around during the Bush years, and having won what they considered to be a clear mandate from the voters, they were in no frame of mind to compromise in any event. So however much Mr. Obama may have wanted to find consensus with Republicans, his efforts were undercut by his own party's leaders, who were perfectly happy to pass bills on party-line votes.
In the Senate, meanwhile, the White House strategy was to largely bypass the Republican leadership, focusing instead on wooing individual, moderate Republicans with Super Bowl parties and presidential chat sessions. The problem was that Republicans, with their caucus reduced to 40 members at its low point, didn't have very many moderates left to woo.
Mr. Obama and his aides ended up spending inordinate amounts of time romancing a couple of tormented senators from Maine, while the minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, spent inordinate amounts of time trying to keep those same few senators in line, with considerable success.
A result of all this was that while Mr. Obama repeatedly went through the motions of seeking Republican support for his agenda, he had to rely, again and again, on partisan majorities slamming it through.
There were, of course, significant ideological differences at work here, too; it's possible that no amount of good-faith negotiation could have bridged the partisan divide on, say, health care legislation, and these differences aren't going away next year. Even so, the new Congress, with its power split between the two parties, might in some ways provide a better climate for cooperation.
Now Republicans in the House will share some accountability for governing the country, rather than simply standing in opposition. In that situation, as the dealings between President Bill Clinton and Speaker Newt Gingrich in the 1990s illustrated, mutual self-interest has a way of trumping ideology. For both parties, the cost of achieving nothing may well outweigh the cost of reaching a few big compromises that anger their more ideological constituents.
And in the Senate, the increased Republican numbers, now up to 47, include new members from such bluish states as Illinois, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania. Few of these senators could fairly be called moderates, but the thing about politicians is that they like to keep their jobs, which means they will have to pay attention to the polls rolling in from their home states.
Perhaps the best example of this phenomenon is Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts, who went to the Senate in 2009 as the first of the so-called Tea Party candidates. Conservatives were disillusioned when Mr. Brown immediately crossed party lines in support of a Democratic jobs bill -- a move that reflected the sentiment back home.
There are at least two areas where the president and his adversaries may need each other to achieve longstanding goals. White House aides are hoping that the bipartisan tax accord reached with Republicans this month will form the basis for similar agreements on deficit reduction next year. Mr. Obama has already called for freezes in discretionary spending and federal salaries, and the feeling inside the White House is that if the president can establish that he is serious about reining in federal spending, Republicans will have no choice but to negotiate over how much and how to do it.
Then there's education reform, an issue that divides the president from a lot of his allies because of his support for performance-based teacher pay and testing for both students and teachers. Mr. Obama would like to remake the No Child Left Behind law to reward school districts that experiment in this way, an undertaking in which he may find more like-minded Republicans than Democrats in Congress.
Of course, there will be at least one new structural impediment to cooperation in the next Congress: the presidential election season that will soon descend like the winter frost on Iowa and New Hampshire. Mr. Obama and Congressional Republicans may have a window of only nine months or so to work out any meaningful deals.
After that, the acrimony of the campaign season is likely to set in, and it'll be ''to be continued'' all over again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker Nancy Pelosi on her way to the House floor Wednesday. Next Congress, her path won't start from the speaker's office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



654 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
IN PUSH FOR ARMS TREATY,
White House Takes Gamble
The final approval of a new arms control treaty with Russia may have been a foregone conclusion by the time senators voted. But that was not the way it looked one afternoon last month when White House officials rushed to the Oval Office to tell President Obama that his treaty might be dead. PAGE A6
DEFENDING INTELLIGENCE CHIEF 
The Obama administration scrambled to undo the damage from an ABC News clip that appeared to show that James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, was clueless about terrorist arrests in the United Kingdom that had been a major news story for hours. PAGE A10
National
VOTE HURTS OBAMA PUSH
To Empty Cuba Prison
Congress voted to impose strict new limits on transferring detainees out of the Guantanamo prison, dealing a major blow to President Obama's vows to shut down the facility and give federal court trials to many of the prisoners. PAGE A18
GLITCH IN COLLEGE APPLICATION
The Common Application, the admission form accepted by more than 400 colleges and universities, was created in part to ease the burden on high school seniors. But a technical glitch in the Common Application has vexed an untold number of college applicants, not to mention their parents, at a moment in their lives that is already freighted with tension. PAGE A17
New York
'SPIDER-MAN' SHOWS
Canceled to Test Safety Plan
The Broadway musical ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark'' canceled two performances to test a safety plan for the show's aerial and stage maneuvers, which involve actors hoisted in harnesses, including the maneuver that failed when a stunt actor fell more than 20 feet and broke his ribs. PAGE A23
Business
USING COMPUTERS
To Trade on Latest News
Math-loving traders are using powerful computers to speed-read news reports, editorials, company Web sites, blog posts and even Twitter messages -- and then letting the machines decide what it all means for the markets. PAGE B1
REORGANIZING AT TIME INC.
Time Inc. is splitting its signature magazine division in two, the final piece of a broader restructuring to swiftly realign its distinct units. PAGE B3
GROWING EMERGING MARKETS
Investment bankers advising on mergers and acquisitions from their offices in London are counting on business from China, India and other developing economies to make 2011 a busy year for European takeovers. PAGE B5
HOME SALES EDGE HIGHER
Sales of existing homes rose in November, but analysts said increased employment and better access to credit were needed before the housing market could achieve a sustained recovery. PAGE B11
Sports
CAL RUGBY'S DEMOTION HURTS
Chances to Spread Sport
The highly successful California Golden Bears rugby squad of the University of California, Berkeley, has been in existence for 128 years, and since 1980, it has won 25 national titles. But Cal rugby was downgraded to a varsity club sport, a status that places it below the intercollegiate level and makes it no longer eligible for university financing. The move came as a blow to those who have fought for years to raise the sport's profile in the United States. PAGE B14
Arts
AN ARTIST AND HIS FRIENDS
Take on bin Laden
James Esber's ''You, Me and Everyone Else,'' his current art show in Brooklyn, is composed entirely of images of Osama bin Laden. The ensemble of about 100 triple-hung tracing-paper works resembles a chorus of leering, vaguely Michelangelesque Old Testament prophets -- a dizzying, slightly hallucinatory, one-rogue rogue's gallery. Review by Roberta Smith. PAGE C1
Home
LOOKING FOR A WINDFALL
In Hard Times
Driven by nostalgia, thrift and the thrill of the hunt, more people are shopping at estate or tag sales, lining up before dawn to be the first to rummage through other people's discards to find inexpensive and one-of-a-kind items for their homes or to resell online for extra spending money. PAGE D1
Thursday Styles
LONG HAIR
For Little Boys
Long hair -- particularly long, layered and shaggy -- is a look growing in popularity for the 8-and-under set. But cultivating a small Samson is not without complications. PAGE E8
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (86%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); TERRORISM (71%); SALES FIGURES (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); TAKEOVERS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (65%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (51%); MUSICAL THEATER (50%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); CUBA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



655 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Lobbyists Linked to Clinton Work for Embattled Leader

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and ERIC LICHTBLAU; Adam Nossiter contributed reporting from Abidjan, Ivory Coast.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the United States continued to push for President Laurent Gbagbo of Ivory Coast to step down, two former Clinton administration officials were trying to present Mr. Gbagbo, who has clung to power despite international condemnation, in a more sympathetic light.
Michael Espy, the former agriculture secretary who is now a lobbyist, has appeared on Ivorian television on behalf of Mr. Gbagbo's government, while Lanny J. Davis, former chief counsel to President Clinton who was hired by Mr. Gbagbo's government this month, worked the phones and described himself as a liaison of sorts to the tainted regime. 
At the White House, the lobbying efforts did not appear to be getting very far. Mr. Obama telephoned President Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria on Wednesday to reinforce the message that the United States wants to see African leaders -- who have been working to dislodge Mr. Gbagbo -- out front in the international campaign to oust him.
By all international accounts, Mr. Gbagbo was defeated by Alassane Ouattara in the Nov. 28 runoff vote for president, but Mr. Gbagbo has disputed the election results.
The World Bank said Wednesday in a statement that it was halting loans to Ivory Coast, which would mean a cutoff of the $841.9 million that the bank committed to the country in January. The bank said in the statement that it was supporting African institutions ''in sending the message to President Gbagbo that he has lost the election and needs to step down.''
For Mr. Obama, the issue has particular resonance in part because he has sought to turn responsibility for good governance in Africa to African institutions even as he has held many African leaders at a distance. All across the continent of Mr. Obama's father's birth, Africans euphorically greeted his election as a sign that they now had an ally at the helm of the most powerful country in the world.
But for Mr. Obama, that adulation has come as a blessing and a curse.
''I have been forced to explain to people there that he is not African,'' said Mamadou Diouf, director of the Institute of African Studies at Columbia University. ''He's not an African leader, he's America's leader; he will be fighting for the interests of his own country. The only thing you can expect from him is that he will try to help you if you help yourself.''
Mr. Obama convened a forum in Washington in August to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the independence of 17 African countries, but he did not invite a single African leader to attend, an omission many African media outlets interpreted as an expression of his distaste for those rulers on the continent considered to be abusive. During his first year in office, Mr. Obama visited Ghana, where he said, pointedly, that ''Africa doesn't need strongmen, it needs strong institutions.''
That emphasis away from strongmen, White House officials said, is now a huge part of the president's strategy for dealing with the chaos in Ivory Coast. White House officials said that Mr. Obama telephoned the Nigerian president because he is the head of the Economic Community of West African States, or Ecowas, which is trying to solve the crisis. The regional group and Mr. Jonathan have won praise for explicitly calling for Mr. Gbagbo to step down. One Obama administration official said that the United States stood ready to help the regional organization ''logistically'' if it decides to intervene, militarily or otherwise, in Ivory Coast.
American officials have also said they will impose targeted sanctions against Mr. Gbagbo and his wife, as well as high-ranking members of his government.
In a sign of the increasing tension in Ivory Coast, France advised its 13,000 citizens there to leave the country.
Mr. Davis, who helped defend President Clinton against impeachment, registered with the Justice Department earlier this month as an agent for Ivory Coast who would be paid $100,000 a month to ''present the facts and the law as to why there is substantial documentary evidence that President Laurent Gbagbo is the duly elected president as a result of the Nov. 28 elections.'' But he insisted in an interview on Wednesday that he viewed himself not as an advocate but as a ''conveyor belt'' to pass information about Mr. Gbagbo to the administration and the world.
Of Mr. Gbagbo, Mr. Davis said he was working through liaisons to ''try to persuade him to move to the middle'' and to begin an international dialogue about the election. He said that a speech Mr. Gbagbo gave earlier this week, in which he appeared open to international mediation, was a sign of his progress in pushing that agenda.
Mr. Davis said he regards himself as a ''paid George Mitchell,'' referring to the former senator who negotiated the Northern Ireland peace accord.
He said that he encouraged Mr. Gbagbo to condemn the election violence in Ivory Coast, and on Wednesday, the Ivorian strongman did just that, putting out a statement in which he said that he would not tolerate the killings of civilians and that anyone responsible for such violence should be prosecuted. (Despite such pronouncements, witnesses and human rights advocates have said the government's security agents have beaten, shot and killed opposition activists and residents in neighborhoods known to support Mr. Ouattara.)
Mr. Davis said he spoke Wednesday with a senior official at the State Department who he said ''encouraged me to continue doing what I'm doing -- to get them to the bargaining table without further bloodshed.''
But the White House does not appear to see much middle ground on the issue.
''We all think that President Gbagbo lost the election,'' said Benjamin Rhodes, director of strategic communications with the National Security Council. ''What's at stake here is a broader regional principle, the tendency of leaders coming to power through democracy, but then holding on to power through undemocratic means. Leaders who lose elections have to transfer power. Leaders who lose elections don't move into national unity governments.''
Mr. Espy, who was traveling Wednesday and could not be reached for comment, had been in Ivory Coast this week making appearances on state television in support of Mr. Gbagbo's administration. (Mr. Espy and Mr. Davis are friends, although Mr. Davis said he was unaware of his Mr. Espy's involvement.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lanny Davis, former chief counsel, is working for Laurent Gbagbo's government. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
 Mr. Gbagbo has refused to step down as president of Ivory Coast despite assessments that he lost recent elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIA KAMBOU/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COTE D'IVOIRE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (94%); NIGERIA (79%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010



656 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2010

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Patient 1, Society 0

BYLINE: DANIELLE OFRI, M.D.


HIGHLIGHT: What's good for the individual may not be good for the rest of us, writes Dr. Danielle Ofri. 

 BODY:
A young, healthy patient called me recently requesting a CT scan of his head because of his headaches. He described his symptoms, and they sounded to me like migraines. His clinical picture was not suggestive of a brain tumor and I told him so, but he was persistent. "What if I'm the one 35-year-old who drops dead of a brain tumor while you try to figure out what's wrong?" he asked.
It's a tough spot to be in. Sure, there was a chance that his symptoms were being caused by a brain tumor. The chance was exceedingly small, but not zero.
If I did a CT scan for every one of my many patients with headache, I might pick up an otherwise unsuspected tumor in one of out of thousands of them. For that one patient, it would be valuable. For the many more who would have side effects from the scan -- from the contrast dye or radiation, or from false positive results leading to yet more tests -- it would be harmful. And when finite health care dollars get shifted to unnecessary tests -- well, we all lose out eventually.
A study last year in Archives of Internal Medicine highlighted the possible damage of radiation from excessive medical testing. Researchers estimated that 29,000 extra cancers could be caused from one year's worth of CT scans. The radiation from potentially unnecessary mammograms has also raised red flags.
Then, of course, there is also the cost of all this testing -- a cost that threatens to bankrupt the health care system and the American economy.
"Being able to say no is the heart of the issue," a health economics researcher said when interviewed by The New York Times about that study.
He is right, of course. So much of decision-making in medicine is in the hands of individual physicians, and it is theoretically in our power to limit unnecessary procedures. But this can create a conflict between what is good for an individual patient and what is good for the health of the entire population.
But can we be a doctor to society? Except for public health doctors, most of us practice medicine in a cocooned environment: one patient with one doctor in one room. We want to do the greater good for society, but this can be abstract, frustrating and time-consuming in a real world with real patients. It may conflict with what is right for the individual. Plus, every doctor knows that you'll rarely be sued by "society," but you certainly can be sued by an individual patient. It's nearly impossible to toe the public-health line when faced with a frightened -- or litigious -- patient.
Sure, I could possibly justify a CT scan for this particular patient, depending on how I worded my request. Besides -- the thinking usually goes -- what's the risk or cost of one extra CT scan in the grand scheme of things?
Approaching medicine on the individual level, there probably isn't much added risk or cost. But approaching medicine from the societal level, the effect is huge.
I spoke to my patient for a long time, explaining why I did not think a CT scan was necessary, given his particular symptoms. I discussed the downsides of such scans, but he would have none of it. It was clear that he would never be able to rest easy until he had a CT.
I finally broke down and ordered the scan, but had mixed feelings about it. It wasn't incorrect to order it, but it probably wasn't necessary.
The patient turned out to be upset that the scan could not be done immediately -- after all, he was worried about a brain tumor killing him on the spot. This was where I had to take a stand. Yes, the scan was potentially justifiable, but given his clinical presentation, I could not justify calling it "emergent" and asking the radiologists to defer other patients scheduled for scans.
In the end, the patient trooped off to the emergency room -- the fastest but most expensive and, ultimately, least efficient way to obtain medical care. He learned he did not have a brain tumor and was able to sleep comfortably that night. Score one for the patient, but the rest of us lose out.

        
Do Patients Want More Care or Less?
        
Getting Doctors to Think About Costs
        
What Doctors Can Learn From Musicians
        
The Shame of Filling a Prescription
        
A Web Campaign for Cancer Prevention

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (90%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (78%); CANCER (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (72%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%) Danielle Ofri; health costs; tests; Doctors

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012



657 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: New Interest in Converting Gas to Diesel

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Diesel and jet fuel are usually made from crude oil. But with oil prices rising even as a glut of natural gas keeps prices for that fuel extraordinarily cheap, a bit of expensive alchemy is suddenly starting to look financially appealing: turning natural gas into liquid fuels.
A South African firm, Sasol, announced Monday that it would spend just over 1 billion Canadian dollars to buy a half-interest in a Canadian shale gas field, so it can explore turning natural gas into diesel and other liquids. Sasol's proprietary conversion technology was developed decades ago to help the apartheid government of South Africa survive an international oil embargo, and it is a refinement of the ones used by the Germans to make fuel for the Wehrmacht during World War II. 
The technology takes ''a lot of money and a lot of effort,'' said Michael E. Webber, associate director of the Center for International Energy Environmental Policy at the University of Texas, Austin. ''You wouldn't do this if you could find easy oil,'' he said.
But with the huge spread between oil and gas prices, and predictions of oil topping $100 a barrel next year, the conversion technology could be a ''a money-maker for whoever is a first mover in that space.''
Several other companies have intermittently tried to make liquid fuels from natural gas or coal. For example, the energy company Baard has been planning a coal-to-liquids plant in Ohio but has not been able to pull the pieces together, and Peabody Coal has discussed a similar plant.
Sasol figures that the natural gas needed for a gallon of diesel, plus operating costs, comes to about $1.50 a gallon. In comparison, a gallon of diesel made from crude oil now costs more than $2, even before refining, and many forecasts are for the price of oil to go higher.
But there is a hefty cost of building the chemical plant to do the conversion, which might run over $1.5 billion for a new Canadian plant that would handle 40,000 barrels a day.
The calculations also exclude another cost: greenhouse gas emissions, which may be higher for a conversion plant than a typical refinery, depending on how the work is done.
''Everything ugly is in vogue again,'' said Josh Mogerman, an energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, which has been fighting a proposed coal-to-liquids plant in Ohio.
From a financial perspective, the technology is far from ugly. A barrel of oil has historically cost one to two times as much as the equivalent amount of energy from natural gas. But right now, vast supplies of natural gas from shale formations in North America have driven prices down, so oil is triple the price of the gas equivalent.
The new ratio creates ''a very attractive economic option,'' said Lean Strauss, senior group executive at Sasol.
While the operating costs favor conversion, the cost to build the chemical plant is another matter; gas-to-liquids plants are far more capital-intensive than traditional refineries that make the same products from crude oil.
A plant opened by Sasol in Qatar in 2006, in partnership with the national oil company, Qatar Petroleum, cost $37,000 per barrel of daily capacity, but costs in Canada would be higher, Mr. Strauss said. Sasol produces 160,000 barrels a day of its liquids -- diesel, naphtha and propane -- in South Africa. It also turns out jet fuel, which is routinely blended into fuel for airliners departing from Johannesburg. In August, Sasol supplied 100 percent of the fuel for a Boeing 737 flight from Johannesburg to Cape Town.
In the deal announced Monday, Sasol acquired a 50 percent stake in Farrell Creek shale gas assets, in British Columbia. With the other owner, Talisman Energy, it will begin a feasibility study early next year on building a gas-to-liquids plant, and Talisman will have the option to own 50 percent of that.
Sasol is building a similar plant in Nigeria with Chevron, and last month, it completed a feasibility study in Uzbekistan. It also recently submitted a proposal to Shenhau, the Chinese coal company, for a similar plant.
The Sasol process cooks a hydrocarbon, either coal or natural gas, into a fuel gas made of hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Using a patented process that involves cobalt catalysts, it converts that gas into a mix of liquids: 80 percent diesel fuel, 15 percent naphtha and 5 percent liquid propane.
But the process is not 100 percent efficient. In fact, the finished product has only about 62 percent as much energy as the raw material did.
In addition to losing energy, the process creates excess carbon dioxide, compared to burning the natural gas or coal directly for energy. But starting with natural gas, said Mr. Strauss, the amount of carbon dioxide released per finished gallon of liquid fuel was comparable to the carbon footprint of a gallon from a traditional refinery.
Environmentalists are not so sure. ''It's unclear right now,'' said Simon Mui, a scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''There hasn't been a large global experience in natural gas to liquids.''
But, he added, ''it's definitely not a greenhouse gas reduction strategy.'' And recovery of gas from shale can itself be energy intensive and environmentally challenging, he said.
The Sasol move comes as Canada is increasing its production of oil from oil sands, which is clearly carbon-intensive. Environmentalists in the United States are trying to stop large-scale imports of oil from oil sands.
Mr. Mogerman, of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that given the historical market prices for oil and natural gas, only countries with no other choice had pursued the conversion process. ''The only ones who've done it are people with their backs against the wall, and who had no financial considerations,'' he said.
But if oil prices stay high and gas prices remain low because of shale gas, that view could be history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sasol, led by Pat Davies, may capitalize on cheap natural gas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NADINE HUTTON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
Sasol, based in South Africa, uses a proprietary process to create diesel. It began as a coping mechanism during apartheid, when the nation was under an oil embargo. Germany used a similar process to fuel the Wehrmacht during World War II. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANE DE SAKUTIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B5) CHART: Diesel's New Math: The price of crude oil, at $90 a barrel, is so much higher than the natural gas equivalent that one company says it can make diesel fuel from gas profitably. (Sources: Sasol
 Energy Information Administration) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); GAS TO LIQUIDS TECHNOLOGY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); JET FUEL (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (68%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (54%)

COMPANY: SASOL LTD (92%); PEABODY ENERGY CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

TICKER: SSL (NYSE) (92%); SOL (JSE) (92%); BTU (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS324199 ALL OTHER PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (83%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



658 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: The Sidney Awards

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
I try not to fall into a rut, but every December I give out Sidney Awards for the best magazine essays of the year, and every year it seems I give one to Michael Lewis. It would be more impressive if I was discovering obscure geniuses, but Lewis keeps churning out the masterpieces.
This year it was a Vanity Fair piece called ''Beware of Greeks Bearing Bonds.'' His large subject is the tsunami of cheap credit that swept over the world and ''offered entire societies the chance to reveal aspects of their characters they could not normally afford to indulge.'' 
His specific subject is Greece, a country that plundered its public institutions while spoiling and atomizing itself. The Greek national railroad earned 100 million euros (about $131.4 million) in revenues each year, but had a wage bill of 400 million euros plus 300 million euros in other expenses. The country reported a budget deficit of 3.7 percent a year, but that was inaccurate. It was really about 14 percent of G.D.P.
Lewis's genius was to show how the moral breakdown spread into one of the most remote institutions on earth, a 1,000-year-old monastery cut off by water, culture and theology that, nonetheless, managed to put itself at the center of the great plundering.
If you go to a college classroom you'll likely notice that the women tend to dominate the conversation. In an essay called ''The End of Men'' in The Atlantic, Hanna Rosin gathers the evidence, showing how women are beginning to dominate the information age.
At one clinic where parents are able to choose the sex of their babies, 75 percent choose girls. Three women earn college degrees for every two earned by men. Of the 15 job categories projected to grow the most in the next decade in the U.S., all but two are predominantly filled by women.
Rosin describes studies showing that corporations that have women in senior management perform better than male-dominated competitors. She visits admissions officers who are hunting for qualified boys. At a support group for men behind on their child support, the leader writes ''$85,000'' on the board. ''That's her salary,'' he barks. Then he writes ''$12,000'' and shouts: ''This is your salary. Who's the damn man? Who's the man now?''
In Fortune, Beth Kowitt had an eye-popping piece called ''Inside the Secret World of Trader Joe's.'' The funky, gourmet grocery chain is actually owned by the secretive Albrecht family from Germany. Many of the products are made by large corporations -- the pita chips are made by a division of PepsiCo and the yogurt is actually made by Danone Stonyfield Farm.
The company has brilliantly seized on the growing sophistication of American food tastes. It offers a much more limited selection than its rivals, thus reducing the anxiety of choice. It has an efficient supply chain (the Tasty Bite Punjab Eggplant that sold for $3.39 at Whole Foods in Manhattan sold for more than a dollar less at the Trader Joe's in Stamford, Conn.). It fosters community and makes shopping a form of belonging.
You may know James Franco as the actor who played Peter Parker's best friend in the Spider-Man movies, or the lead character in the mountain-climbing movie, ''127 Hours.'' While pursuing a full-time acting career, he earned a bachelor's degree at U.C.L.A. and then enrolled simultaneously in four graduate programs -- New York University for film, Columbia for writing, Brooklyn College for writing and Warren Wilson College for poetry. He's also pursuing a Ph.D. in English at Yale and taking classes at the Rhode Island School of Design. His fiction has been published in Esquire (his first book-length collection was published by Scribner). His first solo art show was at the Clocktower Gallery in New York City.
Sam Anderson superbly captures the everythingness of Franco's life in a New York Magazine piece called ''The James Franco Project.'' It is a story of manic labor masking the man's enigmatic core.
Last year, William Deresiewicz delivered a countercultural lecture at West Point. He told the cadets how to combat the frenetic, achievement-obsessed system in which they were raised. That speech was subsequently published in The American Scholar as ''Solitude and Leadership.'' It's about how to be a leader, not an organization man.
Darin Wolfe wrote a piece in American Scientist, called ''To See for One's Self,'' about the decline of the autopsy. Autopsies frequently reveal major diagnostic errors and undiscovered illnesses, yet the number of autopsies performed each year is plummeting. Medical training no longer relies on this hands-on exercise. Doctors are afraid of information that might lead to malpractice suits. Medicare won't pay for them. A form of practical inquiry is being lost.
Everybody's worried about the future of print journalism, but this has been an outstanding year for magazines. On Tuesday, I'll offer more suggestions for holiday reading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); WOMEN (87%); MEN (87%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); BUDGETS (76%); BONDS (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%); RELIGION (51%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (50%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (50%); PEPSICO INC (50%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (50%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (72%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



659 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: E-Readers Under Christmas Trees May Help E-Books Take Root

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
The publishing industry used to be afraid of e-books. In 2010 it embraced them.
Publishers expanded their digital divisions, experimented with video-enhanced e-books, worked on digitizing their older titles and made sure that new books were available simultaneously in e-book and hardcover editions.
Now, having laid the tracks for digital growth, they are waiting to see what their efforts will bring in 2011.
''Is it going to be cause for celebration because it takes us to another level and makes books accessible and popular in new ways?'' said Anne Messitte, the publisher of Vintage/Anchor, a division of Random House. ''Or will the story be different?'' 
E-books now make up 9 to 10 percent of trade-book sales, a rate that grew hugely this year, after accounting for less than half that percentage by the end of last year. Publishers are predicting that digital sales will be 50 percent higher or even double in 2011 what they were in 2010.
January could be the biggest month ever for e-book sales, as possibly hundreds of thousands of people are expected to download books on the e-readers that they receive as Christmas gifts.
The anticipation of that jump in sales, and a feeling that the recession may have loosened its grip, has dissipated some of the death-of-print malaise that has lingered in the book publishing industry for years -- and helped soften the blow of a significant drop in hardcover sales this year.
''There's definitely less doom and gloom,'' said Peter Ginna, the publisher and editorial director for Bloomsbury Press, an imprint of Bloomsbury USA, which published ''The Finkler Question,'' the winner of this year's Man Booker Prize. ''Most of us publishers have seen big gains from electronic books this year. We've seen some tailing off of the print sales, but for most companies, the growth of e-books has been so great that there's a lot of revenue coming from that side that's sort of gravy for us. So we're all feeling pretty good.''
In a year-end letter to employees Markus Dohle, the chairman and chief executive of Random House, cited the company's growth in e-book sales among its ''remarkable accomplishments.''
''For some of our U.S. fall publication titles, nearly half of the overall first-week sales have been in the e-book format,'' Mr. Dohle wrote. ''Led by this upsurge, our worldwide digital sales for 2010 are projected to grow by 250 percent over 2009's.''
For example George W. Bush's memoir, ''Decision Points,'' has sold more than 1.8 million hardcover copies and 200,000 e-books since it was published last month, said David Drake, a spokesman for the Crown Publishing Group, part of Random House.
David Shanks, the chief executive of Penguin Group USA, said that when e-books first began to take off two years ago, ''the state of publishing at the time was getting rather grim.''
In 2010 ''the picture is really dramatically better,'' he said. ''For the first time in a long time, there are many more places for people to buy books. Some of the limitations of the great brick-and-mortar bookstore is that they only have space to display X amount of books. Now if you find an author you love, you can find all of their books immediately at your fingertips.''
Last year the e-book marketplace was overwhelmingly dominated by Amazon and its Kindle device, but since then competitors like Barnes & Noble, Apple and Google have jumped in.
But even with widespread access to e-books, publishers have not yet figured out how to sell them more effectively to consumers. Debut fiction and so-called midlist titles -- books that are not large commercial successes -- are particularly tough sells in digital form, said Peter Hildick-Smith, president of the Codex Group, a book market research company.
''You can have all the availability in the world, but if people don't know the book exists, it doesn't matter,'' Mr. Hildick-Smith said.
A look at the Kindle best-seller list on Amazon shows that it is typically stocked with titles that are also on the print best-seller list -- this week, for instance, new novels by John Grisham, Tom Clancy, Patricia Cornwell and David Baldacci. Early next year The New York Times will begin publishing e-book best-seller lists in its book review section.
''We've certainly learned the technology of creating e-books and distributing them,'' said Laurence J. Kirshbaum, a literary agent. ''But the marketing side is still the Wild West. There's a lot of digital availability now, but we still haven't turned the key and opened the lock on how to sell e-books.''
That said, Mr. Kirshbaum added: ''Digital books have at least put publishing back into a sense of momentum. I think we're going to come out of Christmas stronger than we did a year ago.''
Some surveys have indicated that people who purchase e-reading devices subsequently increase the number of books they buy.
And the tastes of e-book buyers has broadened somewhat in recent months, said David Young, the chief executive of the Hachette Book Group. Nonfiction books like ''Life,'' the Keith Richards memoir, and ''Cleopatra,'' a biography by Stacy Schiff, have sold rapidly in digital form.
''I'm excited by the fact that we're seeing quality nonfiction selling through in e-books,'' Mr. Young said. ''Clearly there are buyers of all persuasions now in that market. That's really good news.''
Even as the spread of e-reading could expand the universe of book buyers, hardcover sales have suffered -- perhaps in part cannibalized by the e-book sales. According to the Association of American Publishers, adult hardcover sales were down nearly 8 percent in the first 10 months of 2010, compared to the same period in 2009. Since e-books are typically closer in price to a paperback edition than a hardcover (Amazon now sells a hardcover edition of a new Stephen King novel for $14.64, but $12.99 for e-book version), they could eat away at profits in the long run.
And there remain urgent concerns about the health of the brick-and-mortar retail environment. Many independent booksellers around the country are still struggling in the face of Amazon, big-box retail rivals and e-books. Borders, the chain bookseller, has suffered from declining sales and a dismal earnings report in early December sent alarm through the industry.
''My No. 1 concern is the survival of the physical bookstore,'' said Carolyn Reidy, the chief executive of Simon & Schuster. ''We need that physical environment, because it's still the place of discovery. People need to see books that they didn't know they wanted.''
Mr. Shanks of Penguin said that even as his company builds its digital business, he is still focused on old-fashioned print publishing.
''People are so caught up in e, e, e,'' he said, using the industry shorthand for e-books. ''But no company can afford to look askance at 90 percent of its revenues.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC BOOKS (99%); PUBLISHING (93%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK SALES (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (63%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



660 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Jewelry, the Holiday Stalwart

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- At this time of year, jewelers rely on last-minute men.
They are the spouses, the boyfriends, the loved ones, all who, up until this week, have been steering clear of malls and anything that requires gift-wrapping.
But in these last few days, they have suddenly assumed a predictable stance, bending over glass counters and snapping up necklaces, bracelets and rings. During what retailers call ''desperation week,'' spending on jewelry stands out, spiking high at the end of the holiday season. And the procrastinating male shopper gets much of the credit.
''You're talking about a lot of male purchases, a lot of last-minute purchases there,'' said Michael McNamara, vice president for research and analysis for MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, which tracks all sales. ''That tends to be an area where you can get a lot of purchasing done in a very efficient amount of time.''
Both higher-end retailers, like Tiffany and De Beers Diamond Jewellers, and mass chains like J. C. Penney say that this week is typically strong for jewelry. Last year, for instance, more than $709 million was spent on jewelry on Dec. 23 and 24 alone, representing 10 percent of the entire month's jewelry sales, according to SpendingPulse. 
This year, with jewelry sales up just slightly at the front end of the holiday rush, and the price of gold rising, retailers are depending heavily on what they see as the manly tradition. They consider themselves experts on the procrastinating male, especially when it comes to sparkle and glitter. Alexis Bittar, who sells jewelry at his own stores as well as at 650 retailers worldwide like Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf Goodman, has witnessed the seasonal gender shift among his shoppers. More than half his customers are men during this busy week, but drop to about 5 percent at any other time of the year.
''I think men, I don't want to say they're not as thoughtful, because that sounds wrong, but their thoughtfulness seems to tip toward the last week before Christmas,'' Mr. Bittar said.
Alex Allen, who works at a downtown Seattle mutual fund company, used his lunch hour this week to dip in and out of Tiffany's, and conceded that he personified the last-minute male shopper. ''I have 20 minutes left,'' Mr. Allen declared. ''I know exactly what I'm doing. I have a plan.''
He chose a pair of silver beaded earrings for his girlfriend. ''Last Christmas, I did get her jewelry as well. She enjoys it, and it's a good investment,'' he said. ''Clothes, she'll grow out of, and if I'm going to spend a decent amount of money, I would prefer it's something she'll have for a long time.''
''I'm a procrastinator, and every year I tell myself I'm going to start earlier, and I don't,'' Mr. Allen said. ''Maybe I enjoy the adrenaline rush.''
Like Mr. Allen, 21 percent of men surveyed, according to a recent Consumer Reports poll, had not started their shopping by Dec. 19, compared with 13 percent of women.
Researchers and analysts also suggest that marketing plays on gender stereotypes, too, influencing what men tend to buy.
''Ritual behavior, including gift-giving and the creation of the holidays, is still traditionally relegated as women's work, because it falls into the sphere of the domestic,'' Cele C. Otnes, a professor at the University of Illinois's College of Business who studies consumer behavior and advertising, said via e-mail. ''Women are the main purveyors of the gift culture, but men realize (a little later than women) in the season that there is this little aspect to gift giving called reciprocity, which sets men in motion.''
''Of course, it doesn't hurt that the main jewelry chains engage in heavy promotion in places where men can be found -- during certain TV programs and in the newspaper,'' Professor Otnes said.
Jewelry is a safe bet for most men, says Nelson Barber, an associate professor at University of New Hampshire's Whittemore School of Business and Economics, who researches shopping behavior.
Men tend to feel less rewarded by purchases and consumption than women do, he said. Instead, they choose gifts that impress.
Buying clothes like a blouse, for example, carries a high potential for error.
He posited these outcomes: A wrong size -- (''So you think I look this big?'' or ''So you want me to look this small?''); an ill-suited color (''This makes me look washed out''); or an unfashionable fashion (''This is for an older woman'').
Also, men do not like to ask for help, which clothes buying almost always requires, and they would rather ''grab something easy to buy, rather than appear not to know something,'' Professor Barber said. ''Women are more social, and communicating with others is a solid way to affirm the selections, beliefs or share ideas without any fear of failure.''
With jewelry, ''waiting until the last moment is easy, and can suggest thoughtful reflection by the male shopper,'' he said.
At Silverworks, a store in a downtown Seattle mall, Mike Pfab, a graphic designer, conceded that he was among those who wait too long to shop.
''I always run out of time, and I'm a bad, bad procrastinator,'' said Mr. Pfab, 38, who was on his lunch break. He settled on a pair of dangly earrings and a sparkly cherry-shaped keychain for his wife. She would also get, he said, ''whatever else I find from now until Christmas Eve.''
Mr. Bittar, the jewelry designer, issues an entire set of instructions to sales clerks to help guide men like Mr. Pfab. ''When the panic sets in, the guys need more steering,'' he said.
He coaches employees to ask about the colors that spouses or partners wear, whether they prefer gold or silver, and if they favor big or small earrings. ''They don't know what they're looking at, and unless they have great taste and style, they're really unsure of themselves and that really comes across,'' Mr. Bittar said.
At a Nordstrom here, Bryant Higgins, 71, said he had learned his wife's dislikes over the years, but still could not settle on the right gift this time.
''I don't get her earrings, because she's fussy about her earrings and I never get it right,'' said Mr. Higgins, a salesman at Sears. He had been looking at necklaces and bracelets, guessing that she would prefer smaller, classic styles over the bigger, more contemporary ones. ''Everything else is done,'' Mr. Higgins said of his Christmas shopping, ''but my wife. That's probably common for me.''
Kevin Lewis, a retired floor-covering salesman, had returned to Tiffany after browsing there with his wife last week, hoping to surprise her with some crystal votives she had admired. Other than that, he plans to get her ''whatever else she wants. She's a princess,'' said Mr. Lewis, 68. The men did seem to have put forethought into their gifts -- though it came with a looming deadline.
Perhaps, as Francois Delage, the chief executive of De Beers Diamond Jewellers, put it: ''I would not necessarily call it last minute, as long as it's still the right moment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Edgar Cho is helped by Caitlin Ruffin, a saleswoman at the Alexis Bittar store on Broome Street in SoHo. (B1)
 Nicola Marchioro was among those last-minute male shoppers helped by Caitlin Ruffin. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWELRY (91%); RETAILERS (90%); FINE JEWELRY (90%); JEWELRY STORES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



661 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2508 words

HEADLINE: WITH U.S. LEAVE, COMPANIES SKIRT IRAN SANCTIONS

BYLINE: By JO BECKER; Ron Nixon contributed reporting from Washington, and William Yong from Tehran.

 BODY:
Despite sanctions and trade embargoes, over the past decade the United States government has allowed American companies to do billions of dollars in business with Iran and other countries blacklisted as state sponsors of terrorism, an examination by The New York Times has found.
At the behest of a host of companies -- from Kraft Food and Pepsi to some of the nation's largest banks -- a little-known office of the Treasury Department has granted nearly 10,000 licenses for deals involving countries that have been cast into economic purgatory, beyond the reach of American business.
Most of the licenses were approved under a decade-old law mandating that agricultural and medical humanitarian aid be exempted from sanctions. But the law, pushed by the farm lobby and other industry groups, was written so broadly that allowable humanitarian aid has included cigarettes, Wrigley's gum, Louisiana hot sauce, weight-loss remedies, body-building supplements and sports rehabilitation equipment sold to the institute that trains Iran's Olympic athletes. 
Hundreds of other licenses were approved because they passed a litmus test: They were deemed to serve American foreign policy goals. And many clearly do, among them deals to provide famine relief in North Korea or to improve Internet connections -- and nurture democracy -- in Iran. But the examination also found cases in which the foreign-policy benefits were considerably less clear.
In one instance, an American company was permitted to bid on a pipeline job that would have helped Iran sell natural gas to Europe, even though the United States opposes such projects. Several other American businesses were permitted to deal with foreign companies believed to be involved in terrorism or weapons proliferation. In one such case, involving equipment bought by a medical waste disposal plant in Hawaii, the government was preparing to deny the license until an influential politician intervened.
In an interview, the Obama administration's point man on sanctions, Stuart A. Levey, said that focusing on the exceptions ''misses the forest for the trees.'' Indeed, the exceptions represent only a small counterweight to the overall force of America's trade sanctions, which are among the toughest in the world. Now they are particularly focused on Iran, where on top of a broad embargo that prohibits most trade, the United States and its allies this year adopted a new round of sanctions that have effectively shut Iran off from much of the international financial system.
''No one can doubt that we are serious about this,'' Mr. Levey said.
But as the administration tries to press Iran even harder to abandon its nuclear program -- officials this week announced several new sanctions measures -- some diplomats and foreign affairs experts worry that by allowing the sale of even small-ticket items with no military application, the United States muddies its moral and diplomatic authority.
''It's not a bad thing to grant exceptions if it represents a conscious policy decision to give countries an incentive,'' said Stuart Eizenstat, who oversaw sanctions policy for the Clinton administration when the humanitarian-aid law was passed. ''But when you create loopholes like this that you can drive a Mack truck through, you are giving countries something for nothing, and they just laugh in their teeth. I think there have been abuses.''
What's more, in countries like Iran where elements of the government have assumed control over large portions of the economy, it is increasingly difficult to separate exceptions that help the people from those that enrich the state. Indeed, records show that the United States has approved the sale of luxury food items to chain stores owned by blacklisted banks, despite requirements that potential purchasers be scrutinized for just such connections.
Enforcement of America's sanctions rests with Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, which can make exceptions with guidance from the State Department. The Treasury office resisted disclosing information about the licenses, but after The Times filed a federal Freedom of Information lawsuit, the government agreed to turn over a list of companies granted exceptions and, in a little more than 100 cases, underlying files explaining the nature and details of the deals. The process took three years, and the government heavily redacted many documents, saying they contained trade secrets and personal information. Still, the files offer a snapshot -- albeit a piecemeal one -- of a system that at times appears out of sync with its own licensing policies and America's goals abroad.
In some cases, licensing rules failed to keep pace with changing diplomatic circumstances. For instance, American companies were able to import cheap blouses and raw material for steel from North Korea because restrictions loosened when that government promised to renounce its nuclear weapons program and were not recalibrated after the agreement fell apart.
Mr. Levey, a Treasury under secretary who held the same job in the Bush administration, pointed out that the United States did far less business with Iran than did China or Europe; in the first quarter of this year, 0.02 percent of American exports went to Iran. And while it is ''a fair policy question'' to ask whether Congress's definition of humanitarian aid is overly broad, he said, the exception has helped the United States argue that it opposes Iran's government, not its people. That, in turn, has helped build international support for the tightly focused financial sanctions.
Beyond that, he and the licensing office's director, Adam Szubin, said the agency's other, case-by-case, determinations often reflected a desire to balance sanctions policy against the realities of the business world, where companies may unwittingly find themselves in transactions involving blacklisted entities.
''I haven't seen any licenses that I thought we should have done differently,'' Mr. Szubin said.
Behind a 2000 Law
For all the speechifying about humanitarian aid that attended its passage, the 2000 law allowing agricultural and medical exceptions to sanctions was ultimately the product of economic stress and political pressure. American farmers, facing sharp declines in commodity prices and exports, hoped to offset their losses with sales to blacklisted countries.
The law defined allowable agricultural exports as any product on a list maintained by the Agriculture Department, which went beyond traditional humanitarian aid like seed and grain and included products like beer, soda, utility poles and more loosely defined categories of ''food commodities'' and ''food additives.''
Even before the law's final passage, companies and their lobbyists inundated the licensing office with claims that their products fit the bill.
Take, for instance, chewing gum, sold in a number of blacklisted countries by Mars Inc., which owns Wrigley's. ''We debated that one for a month. Was it food? Did it have nutritional value? We concluded it did,'' Hal Eren, a former senior sanctions adviser at the licensing office, recalled before pausing and conceding, ''We were probably rolled on that issue by outside forces.''
While Cuba was the primary focus of the initial legislative push, Iran, with its relative wealth and large population, was also a promising prospect. American exports, virtually nonexistent before the law's passage, have totaled more than $1.7 billion since.
In response to questions for this article, companies argued that they were operating in full accordance with American law.
Henry Lapidos, export manager for the American Pop Corn Company, acknowledged that calling the Jolly Time popcorn he sold in Sudan and Iran a humanitarian good was ''pushing the envelope,'' though he did give it a try. ''It depends on how you look at it -- popcorn has fibers, which are helpful to the digestive system,'' he explained, before switching to a different tack. ''What's the harm?'' he asked, adding that he didn't think Iranian soldiers ''would be taking microwavable popcorn'' to war.
Even the sale of benign goods can benefit bad actors, though, which is why the licensing office and State Department are required to check the purchasers of humanitarian aid products for links to terrorism. But that does not always happen.
In its application to sell salt substitutes, marinades, food colorings and cake sprinkles in Iran, McCormick & Co. listed a number of chain stores that planned to buy its products. A quick check of the Web site of one store, Refah, revealed that its major investors were banks on an American blacklist. The government of Tehran owns Shahrvand, another store listed in the license. A third chain store, Ghods, draws many top officials from the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, which the United States considers a terrorist organization.
The licensing office's director, Mr. Szubin, said that given his limited resources, they were better spent on stopping weapons technology from reaching Iran. Even if the connections in the McCormick case had come to light, he said, he still might have had to approve the license: the law requires him to do so unless he can prove that the investors engaged in terrorist activities own more than half of a company.
''Are we checking end users? Yes,'' he said. ''But are we doing corporate due diligence on every Iranian importer? No.''
A McCormick spokesman, Jim Lynn, said, ''We were not aware of the information you shared with us and are looking into it.''
Political Influence
Beyond the humanitarian umbrella, the agency has wide discretion to make case-by-case exceptions. Sometimes, political influence plays a role in those deliberations, as in a case involving Senator Daniel Inouye of Hawaii and a medical-waste disposal plant in Honolulu.
On July 28, 2003, the plant's owner, Samuel Liu, ordered 200 graphite electrodes from a Chinese government-owned company, China Precision Machinery Import Export Corporation. In an interview, Mr. Liu said he had chosen the company because the electrodes available in the United States were harder to find and more expensive. Two days later, the Bush administration barred American citizens from doing business with the Chinese company, which had already been penalized repeatedly for providing missile technology to Pakistan and Iran.
By the time Customs seized the electrodes on Nov. 5, waste was piling up in the sun. Nor did prospects look good for Mr. Liu's application to the licensing office seeking to do an end run around the sanctions. On Nov. 21, a State Department official, Ralph Palmiero, recommended that the agency deny the request since the sanctions explicitly mandated the ''termination of existing contracts'' like Mr. Liu's.
That is when Senator Inouye's office stepped in. While his electrodes were at sea, Mr. Liu had made his first ever political contribution, giving the senator's campaign $2,000. Mr. Liu says the timing was coincidental, that he was simply feeling more politically inclined. Records show that an Inouye aide called the licensing office on Mr. Liu's behalf the same day that Mr. Palmiero recommended denying the application. The senator himself wrote two days later.
Mr. Inouye's spokesman, Peter Boylan, said the contribution had ''no impact whatsoever'' on the senator's actions, which he said were motivated solely by concern for the community's health and welfare.
The pressure appears to have worked. The following day, the licensing office's director at the time asked the State Department to reconsider in an e-mail that prominently noted the senator's interest. A few days later, the State Department found that the purchase qualified for a special ''medical and humanitarian'' exception.
The license was issued Dec. 10. Two months later, Mr. Liu sent the senator another $2,000 contribution, the maximum allowable. Mr. Levey said he could not comment on the details of a decision predating his tenure. But he noted that sanctions against the Chinese company had since been toughened, and added, ''Certainly this transaction wouldn't be authorized today.''
Curious Exemptions
Mr. Liu's license is hardly the only one to raise questions about how the government determines that a license serves American foreign policy.
There is also, for instance, the case of Irisl, an Iranian government-owned shipping line that the United States blacklisted in 2008, charging that because it routinely used front companies and misleading terms to shroud shipments of banned arms and other technology with military uses, it was impossible to tell whether its shipments were ''licit or illicit.''
Less than nine months earlier, the licensing office had permitted a Japanese subsidiary of Citibank to carry out the very type of transaction it was now warning against. Records show that the bank had agreed to confirm a letter of credit guaranteeing payment to a Malaysian exporter upon delivery of what were described as split-system air-conditioners to a Turkish importer. Though the government had yet to blacklist Irisl, sanctions rules already prohibited dealings with Iranian companies. So when the bank learned that the goods were to be shipped aboard the Irisl-owned Iran Ilam, it sought a license.
The license was granted, even though the Treasury Department's investigation of Irisl was well under way and the United States had reason to be suspicious of the Iran Ilam in particular; that summer, the ship had attracted the attention of the intelligence community when it delivered a lathe used to make nuclear centrifuge parts from China to Iran, according to government officials who requested anonymity to speak about a previously unpublicized intelligence matter.
Mr. Szubin said that since the blacklisting of Irisl, his agency had forced banks to extricate themselves from such transactions. But at the time the Citibank license was issued, his agency regularly issued licenses in cases like this one, where at the time of the transaction, the bank had no way of knowing that Irisl was involved and where the shipping line would be paid by a foreign third party anyway. To depart from the norm, he said, risked facing a lawsuit charging unfair treatment and tipping Irisl off that it was under investigation.
But if the government has sometimes been willing to grant American businesses a break, some companies have recently decided that the cost to their reputations outweighs the potential profit.
General Electric, which has been one of the leading recipients of licenses, says it has stopped all but humanitarian business in countries listed as sponsors of terrorism and has promised to donate its profits from Iran to charity.
As Joshua Kamens, the head of a company called Anndorll, put it, he knew from almost the minute he applied for a license to sell sugar in Iran that ''it would come back to haunt me.'' Although he received the go-ahead, he decided to back out of the deal.
''I'm an American,'' he said. ''Even though it's legal to sell that type of product, I didn't want to have any trade with a country like Iran.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Iranian man shopping at a store in Tehran, where products from Dole, which has a sanctions exemptions, are sold. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATTA KENARE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A6) CHART: Sanctions Exceptions: American companies have made billions of dollars over the last decade trading with countries that the United States has labeled state sponsors of terrorism, after receiving special licenses exempting them from trade embargo and sanction rules. Note: 2010 figures are through October (Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Foreign Trade Division) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TERRORISM (77%); FAMINE (76%); LICENSES & PERMITS (75%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (74%); MEDICAL WASTE & BIOHAZARDS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); OLYMPICS (67%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (50%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%) HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



662 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Experts Citing Rising Hopes For Economy

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Eighteen months after the recession officially ended, the government's latest measures to bolster the economy have led many forecasters and policy makers to express new optimism that the recovery will gain substantial momentum in 2011.
Economists in universities and on Wall Street have raised their growth projections for next year. Retail sales, industrial production and factory orders are on the upswing, and new claims for unemployment benefits are trending downward.
Despite persistently high unemployment, consumer confidence is improving. Large corporations are reporting healthy profits, and the Dow Jones industrial average reached a two-year high this week.
The Federal Reserve, which has kept short-term interest rates near zero since the end of 2008, has made clear it is sticking by its controversial decision to try to hold down mortgage and other long-term interest rates by buying government securities. 
President Obama's $858 billion tax-cut compromise with Congressional Republicans is putting more cash in the hands of consumers through a temporary payroll-tax cut and an extension of unemployment insurance for the long-term unemployed.
It is also trying to address one of the biggest impediments to the recovery -- the reluctance of companies to invest their piles of cash in new plants and equipment -- by granting tax incentives for business investment.
The measured optimism is reminiscent of the mood a year ago, when the economy seemed to be reviving, only to stall again in the spring amid widespread fears caused by the debt crisis in Greece and other European countries.
Even so, economists are increasingly upbeat about the outlook, saying that while the economy in 2011 will not be strong enough to drive unemployment down significantly, it should put the United States on its soundest footing since the financial crisis started an economic tailspin three years ago.
Phillip L. Swagel, who was the Treasury Department's chief economist during the administration of George W. Bush and teaches at the University of Maryland, said, ''The recovery in 2011 will be strong enough for us to see sustained job creation that will finally give Americans a tangible sense of an improving economy.''
A prominent forecaster, Mark Zandi of Moody'sEconomy.com, predicted that the economy would be ''off and running'' next year. ''The policy response, in its totality, has been very aggressive,'' he said, ''and I think ensures that the recovery will evolve into a self-sustaining expansion early in 2011.''
The recession officially ended in June 2009, when the economy started to grow again. Gross domestic product, the broadest measure of the country's output, grew at an annualized rate of 3.7 percent in the first quarter of this year. But then it stalled, with the rate falling to a mere 1.7 percent in the second quarter and 2.6 percent in the third quarter.
Jan Hatzius, the chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, said the economy was likely to grow at an annualized rate of around 3 percent this quarter. Goldman projected last week that the growth rate would be 4 percent for most of 2011. Morgan Stanley, which raised its growth forecast for 2011 to 4 percent, is even more optimistic, forecasting a rate of 4.5 percent this quarter.
Administration officials, who have been burned by premature optimism in the past, were reluctant to make predictions for next year. But Austan D. Goolsbee, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers since September, said that a shift in sentiment quickly followed the news of the tax deal
''There aren't many policies which, on the day Washington announces them, lead most private-sector forecasters to publicly and significantly revise their forecasts upward,'' he said. ''This one did.''
There are significant caveats to the more positive outlook. The housing market remains weak, and another sustained drop in prices could badly undercut the economy. Financial markets and the banking system remain vulnerable to a new round of jitters in Europe over the debt burdens of countries like Ireland and Spain. There is mounting concern about the tattered balance sheets of state and local governments.
While fiscal and monetary policy seems to be helping the economy in the short turn, the tax-cut compromise essentially deferred looming battles over how to cut federal spending and address the government's huge debt burden.
The Fed's bond-buying efforts have not prevented long-term interest rates from rising -- a phenomenon that is interpreted by optimists as a reaction to higher growth and by pessimists as a demonstration of the ineffectiveness of the central bank's efforts and the potential for inflation.
And for most of the roughly eight million Americans who have lost their jobs since the recession began in December 2007, it hardly feels like a recovery.
The unemployment rate remains at its highest level since the early 1980s; it rose to 9.8 percent this month and is likely to remain above 9 percent through all of next year, confirming the view that the United States is in another jobless recovery like the ones that followed the last two recessions, in 1990-91 and in 2001.
''Historically, unemployment rates come down slowly, so even with 4 percent growth, you would expect to see the unemployment rate come down maybe a percentage point a year, probably less,'' said Alan B. Krueger, who was the Treasury Department's top economist until last month when he returned to Princeton. ''Given how high the unemployment rate is, that's going to seem very slow.''
Robert J. Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University and a member of the committee that sets the start and end dates of business cycles, cautioned against excessive optimism, noting the huge burdens on state and local governments, rising costs of health care and other long-run fiscal challenges. ''The rise of the stock market is mainly because there are no other good investments in sight, not because the stock market has some unique talent in predicting what's wrong with the economy.''
N. Gregory Mankiw, a Harvard economist who was chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers under Mr. Bush, said that ''anything that spooks consumers and businesses from spending'' could threaten the recovery, including ''a worsening of the fiscal crisis in Europe or the increased fear that a similar crisis will soon infect U.S. cities and states.''
The Fed is likely to end its $600 billion bond-buying program in mid-2011, meaning monetary policy might be providing less of a kick to the economy by the end of the year. Officials in the Obama administration also seem to agree that after the $787 billion stimulus last year and the $858 billion tax-cut compromise just approved by Congress, the government's arsenal of fiscal tools has just about been used up.
''We went through a year and a half period, at least, with the private sector in free fall and government taking a much more significant role than anybody in normal times would want,'' said Mr. Goolsbee. ''And the president's oft-repeated view is that we don't want to be in that circumstance forever -- the government should not be the primary driver of long-run growth in the country. We've got to have the private sector stand up.''
Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, said he believed his party's gains in the midterm elections had bolstered consumer and business confidence, arguing that Republicans have advocated fiscal discipline and opposed onerous regulations and tax increases.
''Consumer confidence seems to be on the upswing and business angst is dropping,'' he said. ''It hasn't swung into the confidence column yet, but the negativity is lowering.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among economists predicting a brighter 2011 were Mark Zandi, left, of Moody's Economy.com
Phillip L. Swagel, center, a former Treasury economist
and Jan Hatzius of Goldman Sachs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
PHIL McCARTEN/REUTERS
 JONATHAN FICKIES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); RETAIL SALES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



663 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: The Upside? Things Could Be Worse

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The year now ending has been a sobering one for the commercial real estate industry, as mortgage defaults have multiplied. Two years ago, barely 1 percent of such loans were delinquent. A year ago that was up to 6 percent, and late this year the figure hit 9 percent.
But it has been a great year for people who invest in securities backed by commercial mortgages. Prices have soared.
Those facts are not as contradictory as they seem. Prices have leaped not because things are great in the world of commercial-mortgage-backed securities but because they are not nearly as bad as the panic-level prices of mid-2009 had indicated.
Mortgage securitizations were supposed to make it possible to put up money for commercial real estate with little risk. First there was diversification, with sometimes hundreds of loans contained in a single securitization. Then there were tranches. Senior ones collected relatively low interest rates, but they were protected from losses because more junior tranches would have to be wiped out before losses affected them. 
The bond rating agencies cooperatively came up with models that assumed little could go wrong. It was not just the top tranches that got triple-A ratings. Even junior securities got such ratings.
At the height of the crisis, the general assumption was that such ratings could not be trusted. But, ''over the last year and a half,'' reports Manus Clancy, the managing director of Trepp, which compiles data on securitizations, some such ''junior AAA bonds went from 30 cents on the dollar to almost par.''
In other words, buyers tripled their investment. What appears to have happened is that many investors have recovered their confidence that the securitization structure works, and will prevent the damage from climbing too far up the securitization ladder.
While some investors celebrate, however, others get hit with bad news that can suddenly wipe out their stake. Just one loan going bad can have a large impact on a securitization, causing some tranches that were paying on schedule to suffer losses or even be wiped out.
That is in contrast to residential-mortgage-backed securities, for which the damage came from waves of foreclosures as properties lost value. No single mortgage has a major impact on the group.
Commercial mortgages differ in other ways. Loans that seem safe and secure can be plunged into trouble if a tenant moves out and others are not to be found. Shopping centers are facing increased competition -- not least from online retailers -- and in many cases are seeing rents decline, leaving them unable to pay mortgage interest.
Then there is the fact that such mortgages are almost always nonrecourse, meaning the lender can seize the property but has no claim on other assets of the owner. Moreover, many commercial properties have extremely restricted uses, limiting the number of people interested in a troubled property.
That can give borrowers power that homeowners can only dream of when negotiating with their mortgage holders. Last week a $171 million loan on a shopping mall in Virginia was sold for $115 million. Trepp reports that will wipe out some classes of two securitizations that owned the loans, and provide payouts for others. The buyer of the loan was Vornado Realty Trust, which owns the mall. In effect, it was allowed to pay off the loan at a large discount to face value.
Behind many commercial loans is a story of an investment, and sometimes it is of an investment gone bad. One 2007 securitization trust put together by Credit Suisse this week reported that it had finally closed out a $175 million loan on the Resorts Atlantic City casino. That casino had been sold for a small fraction of what was owed, so the fact that losses were coming was well known. Even so, the size of the loss was sobering: $176.7 million, or 101 percent of the amount borrowed. The cost of liquidating the loan exceeded the proceeds.
That securitization, known as CSMC 2007-TFL2, was sold just as credit markets were blowing up, and contained loans made when valuations were at their most inflated. As such it is proof that the securitization structure cannot provide safety for all if underwriting standards are truly horrid. The top tranche of that securitization has suffered no losses so far, but Standard & Poor's now gives it a junk rating. The second tranche has begun to take losses.
Some areas of commercial lending continue to get worse. Trepp reports that 15.8 percent of all multifamily housing loans in securitizations are delinquent, and that industry has replaced hotels as the sector with the largest proportion of problem loans.
Office buildings and industrial properties have so far proved to be less prone to delinquency, but problems have been arising there as well. This week another Credit Suisse securitization, CSFB 2005-C2, announced a huge loss as it renegotiated a loan on one large office project. That disclosure highlighted another feature of securitizations, that a single move can be disastrous for one tranche and good news for another.
That move concerned a $106 million loan backed by four buildings in Irvine, Calif. Back in 2005, that was only 73 percent of the appraised value, and the property was fully leased to one major bank, Washington Mutual. The loan brought in only 5.06 percent interest, but it seemed safe.
WaMu was seized by bank regulators in 2008, a victim of bad loans. JPMorgan Chase got most of the bank, but not the lease on that office campus, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation chose to cancel it. A couple of new tenants were found, but most of the space is vacant.
This week the securitization disclosed it had agreed to cut the principal by nearly half. The result, Trepp said, will be the elimination of collateral for four tranches of the security, and damage for another. Those were relatively junior tranches, however, and the top ones have yet to be hit.
But one tranche will benefit. The new arrangement extends the maturity of the loan to 2018 from 2011. That means that an interest-only tranche will get seven more years of payments.
It is reassuring that securitization prices have bounced back, and that new securitizations are now being done. The market for loans on commercial property has reopened, at least for better properties and for deals that involve relatively little leverage, meaning that the property could lose a lot of its value without the lender taking a hit.
But the hangover of the credit bubble is still being worked off, as properties produce less income or lose tenants, and as the lenders take hits. That always happens after booms, of course, but in the past many such problem loans could be worked out by banks with little publicity. Now, because securitizations financed a large part of the last boom, the cleanup process is more public than ever before. It may also be messier and longer. The Resorts casino loan had not paid interest for two years before the final loss was recorded.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At $176.7 million, the loss on a loan for the Resorts Atlantic City casino in New Jersey exceeded the proceeds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) CHART: COMMERCIAL DELINQUENCIES: Delinquency rate on commercial mortgages contained in securitizations. (Source: Trepp) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SECURITIZATION (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BONDS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (60%); RETAILERS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (74%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



664 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: C.I.A. Secrets Could Surface In Swiss Case

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD and DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
A seven-year effort by the Central Intelligence Agency to hide its relationship with a Swiss family who once acted as moles inside the world's most successful atomic black market hit a turning point on Thursday when a Swiss magistrate recommended charging the men with trafficking in technology and information for making nuclear arms.
The prospect of a prosecution, and a public trial, threatens to expose some of the C.I.A.'s deepest secrets if defense lawyers try to protect their clients by revealing how they operated on the agency's behalf. It could also tarnish what the Bush administration once hailed as a resounding victory in breaking up the nuclear arms network by laying bare how much of it remained intact.
''It's like a puzzle,'' Andreas Muller, the Swiss magistrate, said at a news conference in Bern on Thursday. ''If you put the puzzle together you get the whole picture.'' 
The three men -- Friedrich Tinner and his two sons, Urs and Marco -- helped run the atomic smuggling ring of A. Q. Khan, an architect of Pakistan's nuclear bomb program, officials in several countries have said. In return for millions of dollars, according to former Bush administration officials, the Tinners secretly worked for the C.I.A. as well, not only providing information about the Khan network's manufacturing and sales efforts, which stretched from Iran to Libya to North Korea, but also helping the agency introduce flaws into the equipment sent to some of those countries.
The Bush administration went to extraordinary lengths to protect the men from prosecution, even persuading Swiss authorities to destroy equipment and information found on their computers and in their homes and businesses -- actions that may now imperil efforts to prosecute them.
While it has been clear since 2008 that the Tinners acted as American spies, the announcement by the Swiss magistrate on Thursday, recommending their prosecution for nuclear smuggling, is a turning point in the investigation. A trial would bring to the fore a case that Pakistan has insisted is closed. Prosecuting the case could also expose in court a tale of C.I.A. break-ins in Switzerland, and of a still unexplained decision by the agency not to seize electronic copies of a number of nuclear bomb designs found on the computers of the Tinner family.
One of those blueprints came from an early Chinese atomic bomb; two more advanced designs were from Pakistan's program, investigators from several countries have said.
Ultimately, copies of those blueprints were found around the globe on the computers of members of the Khan network, leading investigators to suspect that they made their way to Iran, North Korea and perhaps other countries. In 2003, atomic investigators found one of the atomic blueprints in Libya and brought it back to the United States for safekeeping.
Mr. Muller, the Swiss magistrate, investigated the Tinner case for nearly two years. He said Thursday that his 174-page report recommended that the three men face charges for ''supporting the development of atomic weapons'' in violation of Swiss law.
They are accused of supplying Dr. Khan's operation with technology used to make centrifuges, the machines that purify uranium into fuel for bombs and reactors. Dr. Khan then sold the centrifuges to Libya, Iran and North Korea and perhaps other countries.
Mr. Muller's recommendation comes as a new book describes previously unknown details of the C.I.A.'s secret relationship with the Tinners, which appears to have started around 2000.
The book, ''Fallout,'' by Catherine Collins and Douglas Frantz, scheduled to be published next month, tells how the C.I.A. sent the men coded instructions, spied on their family, tried to buy their silence and ultimately had the Bush administration press Switzerland to destroy evidence in an effort to keep the Tinners from being indicted and testifying in open court.
Ms. Collins is a freelance writer and investigator, and her husband, Mr. Frantz, is a former investigations editor for The New York Times and a former managing editor of The Los Angeles Times. He currently works on the staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
The C.I.A. has never commented on its relationship with the Tinners. But the story has leaked out, in bits and pieces, after news reports of Dr. Khan's illicit atomic sales forced Pakistan's government to expose the atomic ring and place Dr. Khan under house arrest. But Pakistan never allowed him to be interrogated by the C.I.A. or international nuclear inspectors, perhaps out of fear that he would implicate other Pakistani senior officials.
As a result, there has never been a full accounting of his activities, few of his associates have been tried or jailed, and there are strong indications that some of his suppliers are still operating.
But if the Pakistanis were worried about revelations surrounding Dr. Khan and whom he might have worked with in the Pakistani military and political hierarchy, the C.I.A. was worried about the Tinners.
The new book says the Bush administration grew so alarmed at possible disclosures of C.I.A. links to the family that in 2006 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice lobbied Swiss officials to drop their investigation.
The book says the C.I.A. broke into a Tinner home in 2003 and found that the family possessed detailed blueprints for several types of nuclear bombs.
Paula Weiss, a spokeswoman for the C.I.A., declined to comment, and lawyers for the Tinners did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The Tinners have said that they were not aware that the equipment they supplied was intended for nuclear weapons projects.
Based on Swiss investigators' findings, the book suggests that the bomb designs may have spread to a half dozen outposts of Dr. Khan's empire around the globe -- including Thailand, Malaysia and South Africa -- and sharply criticizes the C.I.A. for leaving those plans in the hands of people suspected of being nuclear traffickers.
In late 2007, the Swiss government, under strong American pressure, decided to drop legal proceedings on espionage charges against the Tinners and other charges against a number of C.I.A. operatives who had operated on Swiss soil in violation of the country's laws.
In early 2008, the more limited investigation on trafficking charges inched forward with great difficulty because the Swiss government -- again at the behest of United States officials -- had destroyed an enormous trove of computer files and other material documenting the business dealings of the atomic family. That action led to an uproar in the Swiss Parliament.
But in 2008 Swiss investigators discovered that 39 Tinner files scheduled for destruction had been overlooked, giving the authorities fresh insights into the ring's operation -- and new life for the legal case.
In his news conference on Thursday, Mr. Muller harshly criticized the Swiss government for having ''massively interfered in the wheels of justice by destroying almost all the evidence.'' He added that the government had also ordered the federal criminal police not to cooperate with his investigation.
If the Tinners are formally charged and their case goes to trial in Switzerland, they face up to 10 years in prison if they are found guilty of breaking laws on the export of atomic goods. All three men spent time in Swiss jails pending the outcome of the espionage and trafficking inquiries. The time they have already spent in jail would count toward any possible sentence.
In early 2009, Marco Tinner was freed after more than three years of investigative detention, and his brother Urs was released in late 2008 after more than four years in jail. Their father, Friedrich, was released in 2006.
Mr. Muller recommended that, in addition to charges of atomic smuggling, Marco Tinner should be accused of money laundering.
The Swiss attorney general is now studying the magistrate's report and will decide next year whether to file charges against the Swiss family of atomic spies and entrepreneurs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andreas Muller, a Swiss magistrate, recommended on Thursday in Bern, Switzerland, that charges be filed against three men accused of trafficking in technology for making nuclear arms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL BUHOLZER/REUTERS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MAGISTRATES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (87%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LAWYERS (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERN, SWITZERLAND (88%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



665 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: The Humbug Express

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Hey, has anyone noticed that ''A Christmas Carol'' is a dangerous leftist tract?
I mean, consider the scene, early in the book, where Ebenezer Scrooge rightly refuses to contribute to a poverty relief fund. ''I'm opposed to giving people money for doing nothing,'' he declares. Oh, wait. That wasn't Scrooge. That was Newt Gingrich -- last week. What Scrooge actually says is, ''Are there no prisons?'' But it's pretty much the same thing.
Anyway, instead of praising Scrooge for his principled stand against the welfare state, Charles Dickens makes him out to be some kind of bad guy. How leftist is that? 
As you can see, the fundamental issues of public policy haven't changed since Victorian times. Still, some things are different. In particular, the production of humbug -- which was still a somewhat amateurish craft when Dickens wrote -- has now become a systematic, even industrial, process.
Let me walk you through a case in point, one that I've been following lately.
If you listen to the recent speeches of Republican presidential hopefuls, you'll find several of them talking at length about the harm done by unionized government workers, who have, they say, multiplied under the Obama administration. A recent example was an op-ed article by the outgoing Minnesota governor Tim Pawlenty, who declared that ''thanks to President Obama,'' government is the only booming sector in our economy: ''Since January 2008'' -- silly me, I thought Mr. Obama wasn't inaugurated until 2009 -- ''the private sector has lost nearly eight million jobs, while local, state and federal governments added 590,000.''
Horrors! Except that according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, government employment has fallen, not risen, since January 2008. And since January 2009, when Mr. Obama actually did take office, government employment has fallen by more than 300,000 as hard-pressed state and local governments have been forced to lay off teachers, police officers, firefighters and other workers.
So how did the notion of a surge in government payrolls under Mr. Obama take hold?
It turns out that last spring there was, in fact, a bulge in government employment. And both politicians and researchers at humbug factories -- I mean, conservative think tanks -- quickly seized on this bulge as evidence of an exploding public sector. Over the summer, articles and speeches began to appear highlighting the rise in government employment and issuing dire warnings about what it portended for America's future.
But anyone paying attention knew why public employment had risen -- and it had nothing to do with Big Government. It was, instead, the fact that the federal government had to hire a lot of temporary workers to carry out the 2010 Census -- workers who have almost all left the payroll now that the Census is done.
Is it really possible that the authors of those articles and speeches about soaring public employment didn't know what was going on? Well, I guess we should never assume malice when ignorance remains a possibility.
There has not, however, been any visible effort to retract those erroneous claims. And this isn't the only case of a claimed huge expansion in government that turns out to be nothing of the kind. Have you heard the one about how there's been an explosion in the number of federal regulators? Mike Konczal of the Roosevelt Institute looked into the numbers behind that claim, and it turns out that almost all of those additional ''regulators'' work for the Department of Homeland Security, protecting us against terrorists.
Still, why does it matter what some politicians and think tanks say? The answer is that there's a well-developed right-wing media infrastructure in place to catapult the propaganda, as former President George W. Bush put it, to rapidly disseminate bogus analysis to a wide audience where it becomes part of what ''everyone knows.'' (There's nothing comparable on the left, which has fallen far behind in the humbug race.)
And it's a very effective process. When discussing the alleged huge expansion of government under Mr. Obama, I've repeatedly found that people just won't believe me when I try to point out that it never happened. They assume that I'm lying, or somehow cherry-picking the data. After all, they've heard over and over again about that surge in government spending and employment, and they don't realize that everything they've heard was a special delivery from the Humbug Express.
So in this holiday season, let's remember the wisdom of Ebenezer Scrooge. Not the bit about denying food and medical care to those who need them: America's failure to take care of its own less-fortunate citizens is a national disgrace. But Scrooge was right about the prevalence of humbug. And we'd be much better off as a nation if more people had the courage to say ''Bah!''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (71%); LAYOFFS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%); TIM PAWLENTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



666 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: A Good Bankruptcy Law

 BODY:
Gov. David Paterson put New Yorkers first and the banking and debt collection industries second when he signed a bill that increases the value of property that people can retain when they declare bankruptcy or when creditors win judgments against them. 
This sensible new law puts New York on a par with the rest of the nation. It allows people who hit hard times to keep at least the roof over their heads and the modest car that gets them to and from work.
New York already has a law that shields some debtor assets from creditors and bankruptcy trustees. But the actual dollar amounts in many provisions had not been updated since the 1980s, which means that the protections had seriously been eroded by inflation. Introduced by State Senator Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat of Manhattan, the new law increases the homestead exemption from $50,000 to either $75,000, $125,000 or $250,000, depending on the county of residence.
People who find themselves in deep financial trouble would also be able to keep one cellphone and one computer. The new law raises the value of an exempted automobile from $2,400 to $4,000 or $10,000 for a disabled debtor. The exemption would not apply in cases where the debt being enforced is for child support, spousal support, maintenance or alimony.
The Bloomberg administration argued that the automobile exemption would prevent them from towing some cars, which would make it impossible to collect outstanding traffic fines. The Senate responded by adding language that would void the exemption in cases where the municipality is the creditor. Members of the assembly have promised to do the same at the start of the next legislative session.
The new law will go a long way toward ensuring that bankruptcy or debt collection do not strip people of all they own, turning them into wards of the state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



667 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
BEIJING TRAFFIC MEASURES
Have Unintended Fallout
Beijing's vice mayor for traffic management resigned after a record splurge of new-car purchases by Beijingers, who apparently anticipated that the city was about to tackle its traffic jams by limiting registrations of new autos. Page A4 
SOMALI MILITANTS MAY UNITE
Militants from Somali insurgent groups, the Shabab and Hizbul Islam, held a joint news conference at a mosque in Mogadishu during which they announced a plan to merge. They also threatened the African Union peacekeeping force in Mogadishu as well as attacks in Uganda and Burundi. Page A6
BRITISH COALITION LIMPING
Seven months after taking office and embracing the most radical economic change of any British government since the 1950s, the coalition of Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron is limping -- though not so much from popular disaffection as internal sniping by his junior partners, the left-of center Liberal Democrats. Page A8
SEEING EYE-TO-EYE ON KOREA
Issues other than how to handle an unruly North Korea have strained relations between the United States and China this year. But after a tense week, when the threat of war hung over the Korean peninsula, the Obama administration and Beijing seem finally to be on the same page. Page A12
NORTH KOREA MAKES THREAT
Breaking from the restraint showed during military exercises by the South, the minister of the People's Armed Forces of North Korea said that the nation was prepared to use its nuclear weapons if it was attacked, according to the North's official Korean Central News Agency and Western news media. Page A12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PEACEKEEPING (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); RELIGION (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (69%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (94%); SOMALIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BURUNDI (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



668 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Family Ties and Holiday Shopping Bring Bustle (and Long Waits) to Border Crossing

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR. 
jaguilar@texastribune.org

 BODY:
The sun was close to setting on the southern stretch of I-35 in Laredo on Saturday when Higinio Alfredo Navarrette's thoughts turned to his two daughters, wife and mother in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, about 450 miles away. His white Ford pickup, loaded with a washer, a TV and toys for Christmas, stood motionless less than a mile before the international boundary marking the entrance into Mexico.
After waiting in line for hours to get home for the holidays, it looked as if he might have to travel at night on one of Mexico's deadliest roads, a common hijacking point for drug cartel operatives. 
''I will need to ask the military when I get there -- to see if people are traveling in groups or if there is a helicopter patrolling the area,'' said Mr. Navarrette, who has made the trip from Kilgore, Tex., the last three years.
A prison escape reported the previous day, in which the authorities believe 140 alleged Zeta cartel reinforcements walked out of a Nuevo Laredo prison, added to his concern.
''I am surprised, though,'' he said of the backup. ''There are still more people than last year.''
Mr. Navarrette is a microcosm of the holiday season on the border, an area where the local economy is as affected by security and cartel-related violence as by the nationwide economic slowdown. Caught in the crush of holiday travelers trying to get through the heightened security were paisanos like himself, living in the United States and returning home for Christmas, as well as Mexicans who had come across for quick shopping trips and were heading back into Mexico.
''Through the month of December, we've seen a noticeable marked increase in traffic, and we are very thankful for that,'' said Les Norton, the owner of La Fama clothing store and executive director of the Laredo Downtown Merchants Association. ''But I think that what's interesting is for every one customer that we encounter in our store, there are probably four of five of his family members that didn't make the trip to Laredo because they were afraid.''
Mr. Norton said that in past years, shoppers from Monterrey and Mexico City were the key to a successful season. He said this year would most likely match 2009 sales, which were down from previous years.
To many Mexicans, like Alfredo Hernandez Ybanez, who drove from Monterrey, the trip is still worth it, even if he has apprehension. The lure to buy goods in the United States -- where appliances are cheaper, clothes are more modern and the variety of goods is greater -- still leads him and his wife and two daughters to come here to shop. Their biggest frustration was the lengthy wait at the international bridges.
''I don't know why they don't address the issue. It was like this last month,'' Mr. Hernandez said after waiting in line for hours as his wife used her hand to shield her eyes from the sun. ''We had to rent a hotel room so we wouldn't travel at night. That was $100 I spent that I didn't have.''
That is part of the dynamic of living on the border today, Mr. Norton said. ''As a merchant, we don't like to see it because I know it's affecting my business,'' he said, while adding that Customs employees were just doing their jobs. ''And they have our best interests at heart, so it's a double-edged sword.''
Outside the city limits, about 13 miles from the border, tallies from the Mexican Consulate in Laredo's ''paisano rest stop'' reflect another juxtaposition. There, officials from the United States and Mexican governments team up with city employees to offer help for travelers with questions about travel documents, tolls, hotel listings and even car repair. The license plates indicate journeys from Texas, Arkansas, Florida and Utah, among others.
Despite travel advisories from both governments and a death toll that has exceeded 30,000 in Mexico since 2006, the ties that bind families appear, at least during the holidays, to be stronger than the fear that circulates on the border.
Officials with the Mexican Consulate in Laredo said about 2,200 vehicles stopped at the paisano rest stop last weekend, up from 1,250 in 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Despite escalating violence in Mexico, hundreds of motorists waited Saturday at the downtown Laredo border crossing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIAN AGUILAR/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); CARTELS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); RETAILERS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAREDO, TX, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



669 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: After Losing Their Provider, and So Much More, a Mother and Her Son Persevere

BYLINE: By DANIEL E. SLOTNIK

 BODY:
The death of a husband and father may be the greatest calamity a family will ever face. But when Patricia Aluede discovered her husband, Frederick, sprawled on the floor after a heart attack two years ago, her problems were only beginning.
''He came back from work, laughing, joking,'' Mrs. Aluede recalled of that evening. She soon fell asleep in the living room, exhausted after a long day at the child care business she ran from their house in Merrick, Queens. 
She awoke about midnight and went upstairs to find Mr. Aluede collapsed in the room adjoining their bathroom. She woke her son, Frederick Jr., and called neighbors for help, then they called 911. The neighbors took them out of the house, and about 3 a.m. Mrs. Aluede learned her husband was dead.
Mrs. Aluede, 55, recounted the experience from the cluttered living room of her new home in Hollis, Queens, while Frederick Jr., 15, listened with eyes downcast.
Without the $45,000 a year from her husband's job as a security guard, Mrs. Aluede slipped into an economic tailspin. She could not afford funeral costs and mortgage payments on Supplemental Security Income Survivors Benefits, and her day care income (variable but a maximum of $22,000 a year). She sold their car and fought various mortgage companies in court to avoid foreclosure, to no avail. Mrs. Aluede and her son were evicted on April 19.
They were now homeless, and Mrs. Aluede had to shutter her business.
After the Aluedes were evicted, the bank put their belongings into storage on Long Island without explaining where. Mrs. Aluede said she learned where they had gone only through a letter requesting payment, which she could not afford.
A neighbor offered free use of the basement apartment of a house she was renting, and Mrs. Aluede and her son moved in with their remaining things.
''It's hard to manage a small space,'' Mrs. Aluede said. ''We had the mice, I couldn't cook, roaches.''
So Mrs. Aluede reached out to Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens, which receives money from The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Workers there helped her negotiate with the storage company, which was holding her property for $2,200. They also helped her search for a new home suitable for a child care business.
After three months in the basement Mrs. Aluede's friend demanded $1,500, even though she had said the Aluedes could stay there rent-free. Mrs. Aluede refused: She was saving all she had for a new home and for recovering her property.
Frederick Jr. decided to fast until things became better.
''A fast is like a prayer,'' he said. ''You just pray nonstop, and you just pray until you get what you want.''
He had been denying himself food for three days when someone from Catholic Charities called. They had found an affordable house that could accommodate Mrs. Aluede's business.
The Neediest Cases Fund paid $1,000 to recover the family's possessions -- after a Catholic Charities worker negotiated with the storage company -- and provided $800 toward the deposit for the house. They moved in in September, but Mrs. Aluede has yet to restart her business because the house must pass an inspection.
Things are still tight. Mrs. Aluede's allotted funds barely cover the $1,700-a-month rent.
But her straitened circumstances do not restrict Mrs. Aluede's generosity. Two boys and a girl, friends of Frederick's with nowhere else to go are staying at her house, rent-free.
''This is not the first time I've been doing that,'' Mrs. Aluede said. ''You have to help others so that others will help you, too.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patricia Aluede, with her son Frederick Jr., 15, cannot restart her child-care business until their new house passes an inspection. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED OU/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded $2,978,044 Recorded Wed. 39,012 Total $3,017,056 Last year to date $3,345,046 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVICTION (89%); CHILD CARE (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); FORECLOSURE (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); CHARITIES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



670 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: A Brutal Attack Outside a School Continues to Horrify One Year Later

BYLINE: By SHOSHANA WALTER. 
swalter@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Around 4 p.m. on Oct. 24 of last year, Cynthia Avalos saw a short young man with close-cropped brown hair walking near Richmond High School, drunk.
Ms. Avalos said she recognized him as Manuel Ortega, a friend who lived next door to her at a transitional housing complex in Richmond. She said she liked Mr. Ortega, whom she described as a quiet skateboarder, but also feared his mood swings when he drank. He earned the nickname Tweaker for his erratic behavior.
Mr. Ortega, then 19, made his way to a courtyard next to the school. As darkness fell, he mixed with a disparate group of boys and men outside the homecoming dance, drinking alcohol beneath the dim lights and a broken security camera. There were other skaters, members of a clique called the P-Coat Mafia and others who the authorities said ranged in age from 15 to 43.
The chilling story of what happened that night has taken shape over the past month inside a Martinez courtroom, as a prosecutor presented evidence concerning that night's alleged gang rape of a 16-year-old Richmond High sophomore. The preliminary hearing ended Tuesday afternoon with a judge ordering six men, including Mr. Ortega, to stand trial. 
While evidence remains fragmentary, the hearing shed light on a case that drew international attention and prompted soul-searching far beyond violence-plagued Richmond. Testimony suggested that the crime was even more brutal than was previously known, as assailants allegedly raped, punched, stomped and urinated upon the nearly unconscious girl over the course of two hours in front of numerous onlookers.
Mr. Ortega emerged as a central figure at the hearing. After his arrest, a drunk and violent Mr. Ortega told detectives that the intoxicated girl wanted to have sex with him and that he struck her because she wouldn't stop crying, investigators testified. His actions ignited a ''mob mentality,'' said Dara Cashman, the Contra Costa County prosecutor.
In later interviews with detectives, Mr. Ortega, now 20, denied raping the girl. His lawyer, Jack Funk, a public defender, said witness statements given to the police, including accounts that Mr. Ortega tried to penetrate the victim with a skateboard, were unreliable.
The prosecutor ''is picking through and asserting these statements must be accurate, but there was an awful lot of confusion,'' Mr. Funk said in closing arguments.
The judge, Gregory Caskey of Contra Costa County Superior Court, ruled that the evidence supported numerous charges against Mr. Ortega, including forcible rape while acting in concert and penetration by a foreign object. Mr. Ortega and the five other defendants are scheduled to be arraigned Jan. 10.
Mr. Ortega's story -- pieced together from court testimony and interviews with friends and the police -- provides insight into an alleged crime that involved several suspects. DNA evidence was discovered on the victim from four people who have not been identified, according to testimony.
''There are other people who should be sitting in this courtroom today, '' Ms. Cashman said at the hearing.
By all accounts, none of those assembled in the courtyard that night called the police as the girl was allegedly brutalized.
''There's such a variety of groups that don't even know each other,'' Sgt. Lori Curran, the lead investigator on the case, said in an interview. ''The skaters. Little taggers and graffiti guys. Looky-loos who didn't choose to say anything for fear of what would happen to them.''
Friends said that at the time of the assault, Mr. Ortega was unemployed, had just started receiving food stamps and had just found a place to live after nearly a year of homelessness. He had run away from home at 15, and was later caught burglarizing a house. Upon his release from juvenile hall at 18, a former caretaker said, he stayed at a homeless shelter and with friends.
Mr. Ortega eventually began seeing a therapist and taking Seroquel, a medication used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, his friends said. Though the medication helped control his mood swings, they said he often abused it by drinking alcohol and doubling his doses. Around June 2009, Ms. Avalos said, Mr. Ortega moved in next door. She said that at the time of the crime, Mr. Ortega had stopped taking his medication and was drinking more frequently.
''When he's intoxicated and he stopped taking his medication, that's when he starts acting kind of suicidal,'' Ms. Avalos said. ''He would lash out. He would just, like, start fights with people for the dumbest reasons.''
Although Mr. Ortega did not attend Richmond High, he frequently hung out in the courtyard, according to acquaintances. The area was known as a place where people congregated to drink and smoke marijuana without fear of being caught.
''To be honest, man, back then, we'd go to the back, have a couple drinks and everything,'' said Victor Santamaria, who said he is a friend of one of the defendants. ''We knew the cameras didn't work.''
According to testimony, the victim left the dance about 9:30 p.m. and was about to call her father for a ride when a 15-year-old Richmond High male student invited her to the courtyard to drink. On Tuesday, Judge Caskey ordered the police to release that boy, who is now 16, after ruling that the police had violated his rights during interrogation.
The girl, an English honors student, wore a glittery purple gown, a diamond necklace and silver shoes, according to testimony. She stood barely five feet tall and weighed about 100 pounds. The girl drank brandy with the group. According to testimony, she told detectives that she remembered getting dizzy and passing out. A pediatrician testified that her blood alcohol level the morning after was 0.355, a concentration that can cause unconsciousness and possible death.
Detectives said that after the victim collapsed and vomited, Mr. Ortega removed her underwear and pantyhose as she moved in and out of consciousness. Witnesses said Mr. Ortega first tried to force the victim to perform oral sex on him and began punching her and kicking her in the head when she either refused or was unable to.
Mr. Ortega told the police that as he tried to pull off her necklace, the victim scratched his neck, and he resumed pummeling her, according to testimony.
After Mr. Ortega's assault, others in the crowd joined in the attack, according to testimony.
A Richmond police detective, Todd Kaiser, testified that he arrived at the high school around 11:45 p.m. and discovered the girl folded over a crossbar beneath a picnic table with her dress hiked up over her back. He said he initially thought she was dead.
Mr. Ortega was arrested a few hundreds yards from the school. Shortly after, according to testimony, he told the police: ''Just shoot me in the head. I don't care. I've been alive 19 years, and nobody don't care about me.''
The police testified that they had to hold him down while trying to obtain further evidence, including a mouth swab and clippings of pubic hair flecked with glitter.
Shouting at the officers that night, Mr. Ortega said he did not think what he had done constituted rape.
''She was so drunk, she didn't even know what was going on,'' the police said he told them. ''She wanted it. She wanted all of us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Manuel Ortega, Elvis Torrentes, Ari Morales, Marcelles Peter, Jose Montano and John Crane Jr. have been ordered to stand trial in connection with an attack.
Contra Costa sheriff's deputies escorted Marcelles Peter, 18
Jose Montano, 19
Elvis Torrentes, 23
and John Crane Jr., 44, to their hearing Nov. 16 in Martinez. The alleged gang rape occurred Oct. 24 in this courtyard at Richmond High School. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK OLTMANNS/RICHMOND CONFIDENTIAL
 ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); TESTIMONY (87%); EVIDENCE (87%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (78%); FORENSICS (78%); SKATEBOARDING (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); WITNESSES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); EXTREME SPORTS (71%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (71%); LAWYERS (68%); DNA (67%); ARRESTS (67%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (66%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



671 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Accounting Board Puts Interim Head In Lead Spot

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Leslie F. Seidman, a former auditor and accountant for JPMorgan, was named on Thursday as chairwoman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which sets accounting rules for American companies.
Ms. Seidman, 48, has been a member of the board since 2003 and acting chairwoman since the end of September, when Robert H. Herz retired unexpectedly. Her appointment is for a term ending in 2013, although she could be reappointed.
She takes over at a time of uncertainty for the board, whose role may change if the Securities and Exchange Commission decides to allow American companies to use rules promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board. If it does so, the American board's role would change in ways yet to be determined. 
The appointment was announced by the Financial Accounting Foundation, which administers the board. John J. Brennan, the foundation's chairman, said Ms. Seidman would bring ''both unparalleled standard-setting experience and outstanding leadership skills to her new role.''
The two standards boards hope to adopt new accounting standards by June and are now seeking agreement in three areas -- on accounting for financial instruments, leases and revenue recognition. All the proposals drew extensive public comment, some hostile, which the boards now must evaluate.
The most controversial issue in recent years has been accounting for financial instruments. Banks said the financial crisis was worsened by rules that forced them to recognize depressed market values of some assets, while others said the failure to use market values early enough had obscured problems the banks faced until it was too late. Under heavy political pressure, both boards yielded to some extent to pacify the banks.
Ms. Seidman, as a member of the board, had opposed a proposed standard backed by Mr. Herz, and it appears likely that the eventual result will be less use of market values than Mr. Herz had wished.
In an interview, Ms. Seidman said the two boards had made progress in agreeing on a new standard that would give banks more leeway to write down the value of loans, but not require them to be carried at market value.
She said there was general agreement that financial assets held for trading should be marked to market, and that those that do not trade and are held until maturity should not be valued that way. But, she said, ''it is the assets that are held for indefinite periods of time but are marketable'' on which there is disagreement.
The lease accounting issue is one on which there is wide agreement of the need for change, in order to force companies that lease assets to show their value as assets and to show the offsetting liability for the lease payments. Current rules usually allow such obligations to be kept off balance sheets.
But there has been widespread disagreement on the details of how that would be done, and it seems likely that the boards' proposal will be reworked before a final standard is issued.
Revenue recognition -- the decision on when to record the income from an activity -- is among the most fundamental of accounting concepts. The international standard now is somewhat vague, while the American standards contain rules, in some cases quite detailed, that vary from industry to industry.
The new proposal tried to establish a general rule with more detail than the international standard but less than United States rules now contain, but more work seems to be needed.
Ms. Seidman seemed to hint that the final rules in the three areas might be delayed so that standards are established with care, although she said the June goal remained.
''The challenge before us,'' she said, ''is to work through all the feedback we have received, and end up with standards that are of high quality and also are understandable and implementable by companies, so we can restore confidence in financial reporting on these important matters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Leslie F. Seidman 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (94%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING FOUNDATION (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



672 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Tracking Racial Identity, But Not Defined by It

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
BOSTON -- A spin of the marketing wheel has brought abstract painting back into the spotlight, and much of the new stuff turns out to be rewrapped old stuff. At the same time there are enough artists seriously rethinking existing models that very basic definitions -- What does abstract mean? What qualifies as painting? -- are in flux. Mark Bradford, a 49-year-old Californian, is one of these rethinkers, and a lean, bright 10-year survey of his work at the Institute of Contemporary Art here gives a sense of what he's been up to.
Mr. Bradford first gained national attention in 2001 in ''Freestyle,'' the self-designated ''post-black,'' new-talent survey at the Studio Museum in Harlem. He was one of the oldest people in the show, but his art looked fresh, and it came with an intriguing history. He had a graduate degree from the California Institute of the Arts, known for its theory-intensive curriculum. But he supported himself as a stylist in his mother's beauty salon in South Central Los Angeles and used hairdressing supplies -- curling paper, gels -- in his art, the large abstract collages that he called paintings. 
One of the pictures that was in the Studio Museum show, ''Enter and Exit the New Negro,'' opens this retrospective. With its all-over linear grid and monochromatic silver-gray tone, it immediately brings to mind Agnes Martin's graphite-line-and-wash paintings. But Mr. Bradford used neither paint nor drawing to make it. Instead he composed a grid from many small sheets of translucent, dark-edged paper arranged in rows on canvas. The paper is the kind used to wrap strands of hair for perms.
He bought it in bulk and lightly singed stacks of it with a blowtorch to get the dark edges, which form the grid lines. He then glued the sheets in place with gel, occasionally pausing to digitally photograph the grid-in-progress. He printed the photos and glued them to the canvas too, to create an effect of deep layering.
The title he chose added yet another unorthodox layer in the form of political content. In 1925 the African-American philosopher Alain Locke, a shaper of the Harlem Renaissance, told black artists to advance themselves by adopting modernist forms that would move them beyond racial stereotypes. Mr. Bradford's art takes Locke's idea and flips it around by creating modernist abstraction from everyday materials of black culture.
Soon afterward, in search of more painterly effects, Mr. Bradford began to experiment with color. For a 2002 picture, ''Strawberry,'' he scavenged advertising posters, most of them printed in Day-Glo orange and yellow, from the poor, crime-plagued neighborhood around his mother's shop. He cut the posters into scraps, glued them down, and laid the translucent papers on top, so the colors showed from behind. The paintings radiated a kind of ethereal warmth even though everything about them was straight from the city street, including the title. Strawberry is slang for a female crack addict who supports her habit through prostitution.
Mr. Bradford's art is of and about cities, the main one being Los Angeles, where he grew up black and gay in an era dominated by hip-hop, identity politics and AIDS. He lived in South Central until he was 11, then in a largely white neighborhood, and finally returned to where he started from, and stayed. After his mother retired, he turned the beauty salon into the studio that he still uses.
Los Angeles appears in his art primarily in the form of the quick-and-dirty printed posters that he routinely harvests in South Central. Most are ads for credit cleanup businesses, or DNA testing to establish paternity, or other services directly geared to social and economic realities of a particular place and time. Long after he stopped using the perm end papers, he continued to cover his surfaces with cut, torn and shredded poster paper, each scrap the equivalent of a paint stroke.
In a large piece called ''Scorched Earth'' hundreds of tiny cut-up papers are carefully lined side by side to suggest the buildings or blocks of a city seen in aerial view. Much of the center of the city, however, is bare of such structures, and ash black as if smoldering. And, in an addition rare for this artist, the top third of the piece, representing the sky, is covered with paint, fiery red.
Mr. Bradford made ''Scorched Earth'' in 2006 as a response to the American war in Iraq. But the precise reference he had in mind was to another war, one that had occurred almost a century earlier, in 1921, on United States turf, when mobs of white men torched an African-American neighborhood in Tulsa, Okla., after rumors spread of an assault on a white woman. Technically ''Scorched Earth'' is abstract. Nothing in it actually identifies a historical event, but everything speaks of cities, violence and fire.
Several other pieces in this show were inspired by a more recent urban catastrophe, the devastation of New Orleans by natural disaster and governmental neglect. In 2008 Mr. Bradford spent time there working on a temporary public sculpture -- an ark built from scrap materials in the flood-flattened Lower Ninth Ward -- commissioned for the city's new contemporary-art biennial, Prospect 1.
The only evidence of the sculpture in the retrospective comes in the video ''Across Canal,'' which documents its construction. But the sight of what amounted to an immense three-dimensional collage being fitted and hammered together gives a sense of how labor intensive Mr. Bradford's art is, and how formally versatile his career has been.
The retrospective has several modest-size sculptures that tend to be fairly literal in their political allusions. Race is the unmistakable subject of ''Crow,'' and ''Kobe I Got Your Back'' plays with codes of masculinity. It consists of a basketball covered in black papier-mache in which a string is embedded in what looks like a fissure, as if the ball were about to split open.
By far the strongest and wittiest of the nonpainting works, though, is the 2005 video ''Niagara.'' It's based on a single famous sequence in the 1953 film of that name, the long-held shot of Marilyn Monroe walking into the distance as the camera focuses on her undulating posterior. Mr. Bradford's Marilyn equivalent is a South Central neighbor, Melvin, who, wearing marigold-colored shorts, walks away from the camera and down the street with a wild, hip-swinging strut. In a departure from the 1953 model, however, Melvin's body is pressed up against the camera when the sequence starts. And he is filmed in slow motion, which transforms his strut into a sensuous sashay.
But it is painting -- or Mr. Bradford's collagist's version of it -- with all the touching, shaping and editing that clearly engages him most fully. And he does not stand still with it. The most recent pieces, dated to this year, are both some of his densest and his most reductive. Made from multiple layers of inked, bleached and sanded newsprint, they have no apparent narrative subtext; they seem to be entirely about the material allure of their surfaces, alternately bumpy with raised relief and as smooth as watered silk.
Of course ''pure'' abstraction carries narratives of its own, about making choices and why, as Mr. Bradford is fully aware. If one had to point to bodies of historical painting with which his art is closely aligned, African-American abstraction of the 1960s and '70s would certainly be one. I'm thinking of Alma Thomas's pictures composed of blocks of color and infused with references to both dressmaking and urban life, and of the sewn, pieced and stained painting-sculpture hybrids of Al Loving, Sam Gilliam and Joe Overstreet, with sources in tailoring and quilting.
I'm thinking of the ways these painters and others, who wanted to avoid being trapped in didacticism -- political, ethnic or formal -- managed to incorporate their lives and histories into abstraction, often in symbolic ways. Jack Whitten used an Afro comb to texture his surfaces; Ed Clark pushed paint around with a broom; William T. Williams accompanied a solo show of abstract paintings with a jazz soundtrack.
In the 1960s cultural identity and abstract painting were still widely viewed as irreconcilable. As a result many of those abstract artists were insufficiently honored. Today such categorical barriers have pretty much evaporated. Mr. Bradford's retrospective -- originally organized by Christopher Bedford for Wexner Center for the Arts in Columbus, Ohio, and coordinated in Boston by Helen Molesworth, chief curator at the Institute of Contemporary Art -- is an eloquent demonstration of that.
It is also an instructive example of what ''post-black'' art means: art that can choose to refer to racial identity -- or to class, or gender, or aestheticism, or daily life -- or choose not to. Mr. Bradford has opted to tackle the full spectrum of subjects, which is what makes his abstraction feel deep. And he does so to stay on the move, trying this, trying that, hands on, hands off, which keeps his art light and fleet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Bradford: This survey, featuring the work ''Crow,'' above, is at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston throughMarch 13. (C25)
''The World Is Flat,'' left, and ''Scorched Earth'' are featured in a 10-year survey of Mark Bradford's work. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''Niagara,'' Mark Bradford's 2005 video, shows his neighbor strutting away from the camera. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIKKEMA JENKINS & COMPANY) (C27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (66%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



673 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Little Momentum in Two Critical Gauges of Economic Recovery

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
As analysts try to gauge the pace of the economic recovery, they inevitably take the pulse of the housing and job markets. And despite some upbeat trends like stronger retail sales and new reports that showed increases in personal spending, sales of new homes remained at historically low levels last month and the job market showed little sign of momentum.
The Commerce Department said on Thursday that sales of single-family homes rose slightly in November but were still well below last year's levels. Economists said that the market continued to struggle despite low mortgage rates as buyers and builders struggled with an uncertain job market and tighter access to credit. 
The Labor Department said in a separate report that for the week that ended on Saturday, the number of people applying for first-time unemployment benefits fell by 3,000, to 420,000, the second-lowest number for the year. The figure was largely in line with expectations but would likely have little effect on the overall unemployment rate.
''Recent results are horrendous, and most indicators of the housing market point to continued weak conditions in spite of very low mortgage rates,'' said Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR.
Sales of new single-family houses rose 5.5 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 290,000 in November, compared with the previous month, the Commerce Department said. But the rate was more than 20 percent below the 368,000 sales rate in November a year ago, the agency said. October sales were revised lower, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 275,000, down from 283,000.
The November 2010 rate was also below analysts' expectations for 300,000. And new-home sales for 2010 show the seasonally adjusted annual revised rate for August was 274,000, the lowest level since such data was compiled starting in 1963.
In addition, the actual number of homes sold in November was 21,000, the lowest monthly sales figure on record. Part of the problem is that access to credit is tighter as smaller banks struggle with nonperforming debt, said Patrick Newport, the United States economist for IHS Global Insight.
''Builders are saying they cannot finance viable projects,'' Mr. Newport said. ''From a builder's point of view, this is the worst month that they have ever had. They have never sold so few homes.''
Economists have been watching the Labor Department's weekly claims for first-time unemployment benefits, hoping that a firmer job market will embolden home buyers.
Dan Greenhaus, the chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company, said that the downward trend in jobless claims was more pronounced than an upward trend in the housing data.
''The thing with the homes sales data in general is that they are all at such incredibly depressed levels,'' said Mr. Greenhaus. ''There is no sustained move upward. We are basically bouncing along for much of 2010 at an all-time low.''
The Labor Department said continuing unemployment benefits claims fell to 4.06 million in the week that ended Dec. 11, down from 4.17 million the previous week. The four-week average declined to 4.16 million, from 4.19 million, the department said.
''If that continues it is unquestionably a positive,'' Mr. Greenhaus said.
New-home sales could be helped early next year with a projected decline in interest rates as long as there is stronger employment and income growth, economists said.
On Thursday, a report by Freddie Mac, one of the nation's biggest buyers of home mortgages, said 30-year rates dropped to an average 4.81 percent this week from 4.83 percent a week ago, and 5.05 percent in the same week in 2009. The 15-year fixed mortgage rate averaged 4.15 percent, down from 4.17 percent the previous week and 4.45 percent a year ago, it said.
Economists at IHS Global Insight are projecting a further decline of 4.65 percent to 4.7 percent in 30-year fixed mortgage rates in early 2011.
''Holding everything else constant, it would marginally help sales,'' said Brian A. Bethune, the chief United States financial economist at IHS Global Insight. ''But there really isn't any evidence of any underlying sustained strengthening in the economy.''
Mr. Newport said that the market had been distorted by the government's $8,000 tax credit, which drew some home buyers into the market. It has since expired. ''We have not made much headway in sales and starts for the past 23 months,'' Mr. Newport said.
The home sales data also showed that sales prices for new homes were falling, a reflection of lower labor costs and the smaller homes and lower prices that builders were using to attract buyers.
The median sales price for a new home rose to $213,000, but was down 2.7 percent from November last year. At November's sales rate, the supply of new homes fell slightly to 8.2 months, with 197,000 new homes for sale, the lowest since March 1968.
The real estate market was still a concern of many consumers, according to economists.
On Thursday, those worries were partly reflected in a report by Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan, which showed their Consumer Sentiment Index rose 2.9 points to reach 74.5, the highest level since June.
A strong housing market could affect spending on items like durable goods. A government report said durable goods orders dropped 1.3 percent in November, a larger decline than expected.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Best Buy store in Washington State. The government said orders for durable goods, like TVs, fell 1.3 percent in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S. WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



674 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: A Rosy Prediction, Caveats Included

 BODY:
In 2010, little more than a year after celebrations of the euro's 10th birthday, the very survival of the currency of the world's largest economic bloc came under threat. It's a reminder that the world's economic foundations are never completely stable. So making a prediction that the world will do better than expected in 2011 comes with big caveats.
It has taken extreme measures, primarily ultra-loose monetary policy and much debt creation in the United States and Europe, to recover from the Great Recession. In the process, the seeds of future crises may have been sown -- perhaps even in China, the bastion of growth through the recent crisis. 
As the year turns, the edges of the euro zone remain the world's central economic drama. Greece and Ireland have received bailouts. Portugal is making efforts to cut its fiscal deficit, but weak banks and its poor trade position make a bailout a near-certainty early in 2011.
Spain may need one, too. It suffers from big government spending and trade deficits. Madrid's repair efforts are complicated by the autonomy enjoyed by regional governments and by unemployment of 20 percent. If a Spanish bailout happens, Italy and Belgium could be next. But these countries should be more resilient. They have stronger industrial sectors, lower external financing needs and higher savings levels.
Despite the continuing upheaval, the euro zone will still grow in 2011. Germany's pickup in growth reflects the world's. France and Italy aren't in such bad shape, either. German exports are growing fast and will receive further impetus from a weak euro. That's likely given the continuing uncertainty and low European Central Bank interest rates. A substantial drop to a level of, say, $1.10 by the end of 2011 isn't impossible.
The dollar, meanwhile, should be on the road to recovery. The Fed's printing of money and ultra-low Treasury yields have weakened it. Both should end in 2011. After a relatively dormant three years, the American consumer will stir, cheered by a housing market that appears to have reached its bottom. A virtuous circle of falling unemployment and rising consumer spending looks possible. Growth in the United States may be stronger than markets expect.
That will help Asia's exporters, led by Japan and China. Chinese growth looks set to remain strong, even though the government is trying to reduce the pace of money supply growth. India, too, is racing ahead, despite high inflation and rising interest rates. New consumers are emerging in Asia. The demand for food, copper, cement, electricity and oil keeps growing.
So the commodity price inflation seen in the second half of 2010 may continue and could worsen. Inflation is already a big problem in some emerging economies. It's likely to break out soon in the West.
In the United States, inflation -- especially coupled with accelerating growth -- would force the Fed to consider raising interest rates. Though it seems unlikely now, that could happen before the end of 2011. Bond markets that prospered through the deflationary crisis would be hit. Stock investors would have to weigh higher growth against more expensive money.
The result: a resuscitated world, but not a wholly healthy one. In almost every major economy, government deficit and debt will have climbed steeply. The United States will have shown its great capacity to borrow, but even Uncle Sam will have to shift toward unaccustomed austerity. Until that happens, the American consumer and a mammoth trade deficit of some $40 billion a month will again be one side of the world's imbalances.
For its part, China has maintained growth by permitting soaring foreign exchange reserves and money supply while increasing exports. China's controlled currency is another cause of global economic imbalances. The government might allow the renminbi to appreciate sharply if it finds inflation rising fast, which may well happen. But the leadership will also be wary of damaging the export sector and its jobs.
The structure of China's economy and the staggering money supply growth everywhere during the recession might stoke future crises. But faster global recovery and the return of inflation should be the main themes in 2011, punctuated by euro zone aftershocks. Not to mention the inevitable unforeseen surprises, both good and bad.
IAN CAMPBELL
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China, the bastion of growth in the recession, appears set for another strong year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); METALS MARKETS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING (69%); INTEREST RATES (63%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (78%); PORTUGAL (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



675 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: States Look for Winning Formulas to Spur Lottery Sales

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON and ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- Buy a scratch lottery ticket in Georgia, and you can win music downloads or a seat at an Atlanta Falcons game. In New York, one of the top sellers is an all-black ticket as sleek as an Armani suit. And in Texas, where they brag that everything is bigger, a single ticket goes for $50.
With state budgets in crisis and lottery-financed programs like prekindergarten being considered for cuts, the pressure is on to make lottery tickets more attractive to casual scratchers and people who may have never dropped a dollar on a chance before. 
Even at Christmas, which is the busiest season for scratch tickets, no gimmick -- peppermint-scented tickets, anyone? -- is too ridiculous.
In Louisiana, frequent gamblers are invited to join Club Lotteaux to receive e-mail updates and other promotions, like a chance to name a reindeer and win a package of holiday tickets and a coffee mug.
In Washington State, holiday tickets come with a chance to win a home-theater system. Georgia lottery officials, who sell a $2 ticket with the unlikely combination of a snowman and Betty Boop in a skimpy Santa outfit, are sponsoring ''American Idol''-style singing contests.
''You have to find the new thing,'' said Margaret DeFrancisco, the commissioner of the Georgia Lottery, which is considered one of the most creative in the industry. ''You're talking about discretionary dollars, and people have been pretty tight with their bucks.''
Lotteries provide an average of 2 percent of the budget in the 43 states where they are legal. Nationally, that translates to almost $18 billion in profit, or a little more than cigarette taxes bring in, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Lottery revenues softened in the 2009 fiscal year, dropping in 25 states and staying flat in 10 others. And though the amount brought in by lotteries has started to recover this year, states in need of cash are still considering cuts in the programs they finance. The North Carolina Education Lottery Commission, for instance, estimates that weak ticket sales will mean it contributes $40 million less than projected to education.
''There's an old wives' tale that lotteries are recession-proof,'' said Gordon Medenica, the New York lottery commissioner. ''But every year, it's getting harder and harder.''
To help, a coalition of lottery officials that nicknamed itself the Lottery Game Working Group meets regularly to find new ideas. They have a list of 200 concepts.
In many ways, it is harder to freshen the nonscratch numbers games where one buys a ticket and hopes the right numbers get drawn.
There have been efforts. Last year, the two biggest lottery games, Mega Millions and Powerball, reached a deal to let any state sell both games' tickets, perhaps the biggest change to lotteries in decades. But the biggest creative marketing push centers on an old staple: the scratch ticket, which provides as much as 70 percent of lottery revenues in some states.
Marketing concepts include mining the appeal of game shows like ''The Price is Right'' and ''Deal or No Deal,'' with tickets designed to mimic the games. South Dakota has a Pheasants Forever card to appeal to hunters. In Arkansas, which overcame religious opposition to start a lottery this year, tickets have pictures of catfish and hush puppies.
''Every place in America has its own little thing that it eats,'' said Julie Baldridge, the spokeswoman for the Arkansas lottery. ''That can be a good way to design tickets.''
The key to success is catching a customer's eye, said Richard McGowan, a management professor at Boston College who studies state gambling.
''It's an impulse buy when you walk into a store,'' he said. ''It all depends on how aggressive a lottery commissioner wants to be with advertising.''
But the design of the tickets matters less to some players than others.
At one of two kiosks selling lottery tickets at the Atlanta airport, Michelle Langford, 64, shopped for Christmas presents while she waited to pick up her grandson, who was arriving from Tucson. She bought six $1 holiday scratch tickets for the women she plays cards with and a couple of $10 Jingle Jumbo Bucks for the family.
''You put it in your Christmas card and say, 'I couldn't buy you a $40 perfume package, but I'm thinking of you,' '' Ms. Langford said.
Just for good measure, she also bought a couple of shots at the Mega Millions numbers game. The estimated pot was $145 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cross-promotional campaigns with local sports teams are among the efforts to sell more lottery tickets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES (95%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TICKET SALES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); CHRISTMAS (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA FALCONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



676 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Economist's Plan to Improve Schools Begins Before Kindergarten

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
J. B. Pritzker, a prominent Chicago businessman, says he wakes up each day mulling the best way to get a return on his investments. The most valuable resource he can find is ''smart people with character.''
It explains why, last week, Mr. Pritzker, a liberal Democrat, introduced a person he described as a University of Chicago supply-side economist at a gathering that might have benefited mayoral candidates concerned about Chicago's public schools performance. 
At the gathering, James J. Heckman, who has won the Nobel in economic science, offered a provocative idea for reducing spiraling budget deficits and strengthening the economy: investing in early childhood development.
Mr. Heckman marshals ample data to suggest that better teaching, higher standards, smaller classrooms and more Internet access ''have less impact than we think,'' as he put it at the Spertus Institute. To focus as intently as we do on the kindergarten to high school years misses how ''the accident of birth is the greatest source of inequality,'' he said.
He urges more effectively educating children before they step into a classroom where, as Chicago teachers tell me, they often are clueless about letters, numbers and colors -- and lack the attentiveness and persistence to ever catch up. Matters are as bleak with many students entering the City Colleges system.
Mr. Heckman is not really a supply-sider, but he is big on return on investment, just like Mr. Pritzker, who sponsored the Spertus event with the McCormick Foundation and is also a contributor to my wife's nonprofit group.
He contends that high-quality programs focused on birth to age 5 produce a higher per-dollar return than K-12 schooling and later job training. They reduce deficits by reducing the need for special education and remediation, and by cutting juvenile delinquency, teenage pregnancy and dropout rates.
With charts and references to long-term studies, Mr. Heckman underscored why families matter and attributed the widening gap between the advantaged and disadvantaged to deficits in skills and abilities that begin with inadequate early childhood development.
One slide juxtaposed achievement test scores with a mother's education. If you come from a single-parent home with a mother who dropped out of school, your scores lag far behind throughout your academic life.
Test scores may measure smarts, not the character that turns knowledge into know-how. ''Socio-emotional skills'' or ''character,'' which we don't often measure, are critical, and include motivation, the ability to work with others, attention, self-regulation, self-esteem and the ability to defer gratification.
There are few more influential thinkers than Mr. Heckman on the impact of social programs and methods used to assess them.
''He's one of the great labor economists of all time, a pioneer of empirical analysis of labor markets, human capital and education,'' said Austan Goolsbee, chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers and a University of Chicago colleague.
In the mayoral race, only the freshly certified (to run) Rahm Emanuel and Gery Chico offer extensive plans for education reform. Mr. Emanuel's ideas strike some nonpartisan folks as more innovative, but Mr. Chico puts early learning front and center.
To their credit, both encourage parental participation, though that's a complex topic. It's especially knotty for poor parents who don't have computers, easy transportation or time to be involved in their child's school.
Finally, each seems more tactical than strategic, with neither arguably offering a compelling answer to a simple question: What exactly is the purpose of a Chicago public school education?
Many politicians jabber about ''preparing our children for a global high-tech economy.'' That's a projection of the present onto a future we stumble to imagine, let alone predict.
But if Mr. Heckman is correct, the purpose of education is what it has always been: to develop a well-rounded, knowledgeable and adaptable person; to create upward mobility through smarts and character.
Imagine more young adults going off into the world to make it better -- and fewer coming home to sleep on the couch. If a candidate forced a real debate on such a vision, and a plan to pay for it, parents might pony up even in tough times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James J. Heckman 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); QUALITY CONTROL (75%); FAMILY (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); MAYORS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (55%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



677 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 415 words

PERSON: Fred Hargesheimer 

HEADLINE: Fred Hargesheimer, 94; Repaid His Rescuers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) -- Fred Hargesheimer, a World War II Army pilot whose rescue by Pacific islanders led to a life of giving back as a builder of schools and a teacher, died here Thursday. He was 94. 
His death was confirmed by his son Richard.
On June 5, 1943, Mr. Hargesheimer, a P-38 pilot with the Eighth Photographic Reconnaissance Squadron, was shot down by a Japanese fighter while on a mission over the Japanese-held island of New Britain in the southwest Pacific. He parachuted into the jungle, where he barely survived for 31 days until local hunters found him.
They took him to their coastal village, and for seven months hid him from Japanese patrols, fed him and nursed him back to health. In February 1944, with the help of Australian commandos working behind Japanese lines, he was picked up by an American submarine off a New Britain beach.
After returning to the United States following the war, Mr. Hargesheimer married and began a sales career with a Minnesota forerunner of the computer maker Sperry Rand, his lifelong employer. But he said he could not forget the Nakanai people, whom he considered his saviors.
The more he thought about it, he later said, ''the more I realized what a debt I had to try to repay.''
After revisiting the village of Ea Ea in 1960, he came home, raised $15,000 over three years -- ''most of it $5 and $10 gifts,'' he said -- and returned in 1963 with his son Richard, then 17, to contract for the building of the villagers' first school.
In the decades to come, Mr. Hargesheimer's fund-raising and determination built a clinic, another school and libraries in Ea Ea, renamed Nantabu, and surrounding villages.
In 1970, with their three children grown, Mr. Hargesheimer and his wife, Dorothy, moved to New Britain, today an out-island of the nation of Papua New Guinea, and taught the village children themselves for four years. The Nantabu school's experimental plot of oil palm even helped create a local economy, a large plantation with jobs for impoverished villagers.
On his last visit, in 2006, Mr. Hargesheimer was flown by helicopter into the jungle and carried in a chair by Nakanai men to view the newly found wreckage of his World War II plane. ''These people were responsible for saving my life,'' Mr. Hargesheimer told The Associated Press in a 2008 interview. ''How could I ever repay it?''
Besides his son Richard, Mr. Hargesheimer is survived by another son, Eric; a daughter, Carol; a sister, Mary Louise Gibson; and eight grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In 2004, Fred Hargesheimer visited students at a school he helped build in Papua New Guinea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEOFFREY HEARD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HELICOPTERS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (74%) NEBRASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (92%)

CATEGORY: Activism

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



678 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS & BONDS; Upswing Is Expected to Continue

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks had a fourth consecutive week of gains, as investors expected optimism about the economic recovery to support equities through the end of the year.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell on Thursday, but that did not drag it into negative territory for the week. The S.& P. edged down 2.07 points, or 0.16 percent, to 1,256.77. 
The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 14 points, or 0.12 percent, to 11,573.49. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 5.88 points, or 0.22 percent, to 2,665.60.
Markets in the United States will be closed on Friday.
For the week, the S.& P. 500 was up 1 percent, the Dow gained 0.7 percent and the Nasdaq rose 0.9 percent. It was the fourth week of gains for the Dow and S.& P. and the fifth week of gains for the Nasdaq.
Some technical and sentiment indicators augur for a near-term drop, but investors remain optimistic over the long haul.
Keith Springer, president of Springer Financial Advisors in Sacramento, said that the market was more likely to trade sideways than fall drastically. Economic data was mixed. Consumer sentiment rose in December to its highest level since June, and demand for long-lasting manufactured goods surged. First-time claims for jobless benefits edged down, but a rise in new home sales in November came in below expectations. Banks weighed on the market, giving back recent gains after a strong month.
Bank of America lost 2.4 percent, to $13.06, and JPMorgan Chase fell 0.19 percent, to $42.08.
The latest survey by the American Association of Individual Investors found bullish sentiment rose 13.1 percentage points, to 63.3 percent, as of Wednesday, a six-year high.
Market watchers say the market is likely to see more upside in the remaining five trading days of the year after a 6.5 percent gain for the month put the S.& P. 500 up 12.7 percent for 2010.
According to Birinyi Associates, the market rallies 73 percent of the time from the close before Christmas Day to the last close of the year for an average return of 1.34 percent.
Retail stocks got a boost as Bed Bath & Beyond rose $2.43, or 5.1 percent, to $50.10.
The fabric and crafts retailer Jo-Ann Stores surged $14.56, or 31.9 percent, to $60.19, after it agreed to a buyout by the private equity firm Leonard Green & Partners for $61 a share.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 12/32, to 93 19/32. The yield rose to 3.39 percent from 3.35 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dancers from the New York City Ballet's ''Nutcracker'' at the New York Stock Exchange Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW H. WALKER/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); BALLET (74%); NEW HOME SALES (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); CHRISTMAS (66%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); LEONARD GREEN & PARTNERS LP (51%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (51%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (51%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



679 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Moving on Greenhouse Gases

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agencyannounced a timetable on Thursday for issuing rules limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants and oil refineries, signaling a resolve to press ahead on such regulation even as it faces stiffening opposition in Congress.
The agency said it would propose performance standards for new and refurbished power plants next July, with final rules to be issued in May 2012. Proposed emissions standards for new oil refineries will be published next December, it said, with the final rules due in November 2012; rules for existing plants would come later.
But the E.P.A. was vague on how stringent the rules would be and how deep a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions would result. 
Gina McCarthy, the assistant administrator for air and radiation, said the rules would be ''cost-effective'' but the agency declined to be more specific, saying only that the agency would consider the costs and benefits of available control technologies.
That left open the question of how much money the agency would demand that an industry spend to avoid emitting carbon dioxide.
The E.P.A. seemed at pains to appear reasonable on the challenges of an industry transition: in a conference call with reporters, Ms. McCarthy emphasized that the agency would take a ''sensitive and collaborative'' approach in issuing rules for plants and refineries.
Power plants and refineries are the nation's top emitters of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas that has been linked to global warming. Having declared greenhouse gases to be a threat to public health last year, the agency begins regulating those emissions on Jan. 2 under the Clean Air Act.
The rules for new power plants and refineries are certain to be challenged by industry, some states, and many Republicans in the House of Representatives who have vowed to limit the agency's regulatory powers.
The E.P.A.'s announcement drew swift criticism from Representative Fred Upton, the Michigan Republican who will become chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee next month. ''We should be working to bring more power online, not shutting plants down,'' he said in a statement.
''We will not allow the administration to regulate what they have been unable to legislate,'' he said. ''This Christmas surprise is nothing short of a backdoor attempt to implement their failed job-killing cap-and-trade scheme,'' he said.
In the conference call, Ms. McCarthy emphasized that the E.P.A. was not imposing a ''cap-and-trade'' system, a system that sets a ceiling on greenhouse gas pollution while allowing companies to trade permits, at a price that the market determines.
Approved last year in a House bill, cap-and-trade legislation died in the Senate this year. Later, opponents called it ''cap and tax,'' and it became a rallying cry for some midterm election candidates who were opposed to the expansion of government authority over industry and the economy.
The Natural Resources Defense Council, one of several parties that had threatened to sue if the E.P.A. did not set a timetable, welcomed Thursday's announcement. ''E.P.A. is doing precisely what is needed to protect our health and welfare and provide businesses certainty at a time when some would prefer to roll back the clock,'' said David Doniger, the policy director for the group's climate center.
''There is no question that a lot of the newcomers are going to come into town, especially the Republican house, and try to block this,'' he said.
On one level, the E.P.A. seemed to be flexing its muscle after drawing criticism from environmental groups for recently deciding to delay issuing standards on conventional pollutants from industrial boilers. But by isolating only power plants and refineries, the agency also seemed to signal that for now, at least, it will go after only big industrial sources.
Coal-fired power plants already face a cascade of new regulations scheduled to take effect in coming months covering their emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, mercury and other pollutants. By putting utilities on notice that it is adding carbon dioxide to the pollutant list, the E.P.A. is increasing pressure on utilities to shut down older coal-fired plants.
Jeffrey R. Holmstead, who held Ms. McCarthy's post under President George W. Bush, noted that the agency was ''studious in avoiding'' a definition of ''cost-effective.''
''I think it's just their way of saying, what we intend to do will be reasonable,'' he said. The E.P.A., he said, has intermittently talked about reductions in carbon dioxide emissions that would pay for themselves because they resulted from improvements in energy efficiency, for example.
But unless the agency demands a fairly high expenditure on the kind of the technology that would be needed to avoid a ton of emissions, reductions will not be achieved, Mr. Holmstead said. ''They're not going to have it both ways for much longer,'' he said.
The Edison Electric Institute, the trade association for investor-owned utilities, said that it could not predict the impact on electricity rates because ''we don't know how stringent the new standards will be.''
''This will be the determining factor as to whether they can be met through efficiency improvements or, if very strict, might result in fuel switching or use of advanced carbon control technologies,'' it said in a statement. Fuel switching or installing carbon capture equipment would drive up electric rates, the group said.
Rules for existing power plants could be issued by 2015 or 2016, Ms. McCarthy indicated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A power plant burning coal in Moundsville, W. Va., on Thursday. The government is preparing new emissions regulations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (94%); EMISSIONS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES REGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%)

PERSON: FRED UPTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



680 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Military and Relief Aid: When the Lines Blur

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''U.S. Afghan Role Questioned as Relief Worker Deaths Soar'' (front page, Dec. 14):
Your article pointing to the danger of blurring lines between military action and humanitarian assistance echoes a growing concern of humanitarian actors. 
Our own research in Afghanistan, Somalia and the occupied Palestinian territories, among other places, confirms a worrying trend in which governments' politicization and militarization of aid have impeded delivery of assistance to millions of vulnerable people and jeopardized the lives of so many humanitarian workers.
Our recently published ''Humanitarian Response Index 2010'' report, assessing government donor response, found that humanitarian aid was increasingly driven by political, security and military interests in 10 of the 14 crises we visited. This approach is unprincipled, dangerous and counterproductive. It does not help the populations who so desperately need our aid.
What is the solution? Governments need to ''go back to basics'' and support neutral, independent humanitarian aid based solely on meeting the needs for assistance and protection of affected populations. It is the only way forward.
Ross Mountain Madrid, Dec. 16, 2010
The writer is director general of DARA, an organization that aims to improve the effectiveness of humanitarian aid.
To the Editor:
Anyone who has worked in the grass roots of a developing country understands why mixing military operations and humanitarian aid won't work.
Marriage of the two is untenable. Aid work is about learning local ways and building relationships. Poverty reduction is admired by all as a noble undertaking. Militarizing aid, on the other hand, replaces collaboration with confrontation, putting aid workers and their supporters in harm's way, and jeopardizing community projects.
In Afghanistan, our leaders lack a local touch. Orchestrating the delivery of aid from above, they flout the reality of daily life in the villages, places hard to see from Kabul or Washington. Their macro solutions, like enlisting soldiers to deliver aid, often fail for lack of attention to micro nuances like culture, language, economics and politics.
Aid work is about living and working with impoverished people to achieve their goals for progress. It's about dignity, not defense.
Michael Buckler Washington, Dec. 14, 2010
The writer is the author of ''From Microsoft to Malawi: Learning on the Front Lines as a Peace Corps Volunteer.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (92%); MALAWI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



681 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Students in Poor Counties Get Creative Opportunities

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Next summer, when Cristina Vela goes to Michigan -- the same long trip from the small South Texas border town of Hidalgo that she has made every year with her migrant family -- it will not be to work in the fields. When an admissions officer from Michigan State University visited her high school earlier this month and saw Ms. Vela's transcript, she was accepted on the spot.
Ms. Vela, the first in her family to go out of state to school, said she was not concerned about the academic challenges of college -- she has been taking college courses since her sophomore year. By the time she graduates in the spring, she will have accumulated 30 college credit hours. Some of her classmates have double that.
Ms. Vela's achievement is part of an initiative involving dual-credit courses that allows students to merge high school with college-level education to an unprecedented extent. Hidalgo's school -- once ranked among the worst performing in the state -- is now one of the most successful. 
An exceptional level of collaboration between local leaders in public and higher education has permeated Hidalgo for the last five years and is taking hold elsewhere in the Rio Grande Valley, which boasts some of the United States' poorest counties, providing students with new opportunities.
In the 1980s, when Texas' education-accountability systems were put into place, Hidalgo's high school was ranked in the bottom 10 percent of the state's schools in academic performance. The student population is 99 percent Hispanic, 89 percent of students are economically disadvantaged and 70 percent are considered ''at risk'' by the standards of the Texas Education Agency.
Today, Hidalgo students graduate at higher rates than the state average, and 98 percent -- compared with 81 percent statewide -- complete a recommended or distinguished curriculum as defined by the state.
At most high schools in Texas, students are permitted to enroll in dual-credit courses only after they have entered their junior year. Even then, they can enroll in only up to two at a time.
But such limits do not exist at schools in the Early College High School Initiative, a national program started in 2002 by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The foundation's idea was to finance small schools that, in partnership with local colleges, would provide an early introduction to the concept and rigor of higher education to up to 400 low-income high school students, 100 per grade.
In Texas, there are currently 49 such schools, financed jointly by the Communities Foundation of Texas and the Texas Education Agency.
But Hidalgo has taken that notion even further.
Daniel P. King was the Hidalgo Independent School District superintendent in 2005 when the local early college effort began. Mr. King liked the idea but thought it could be improved.
''Early college high schools were already outside the box,'' he said. ''We wanted to go outside their box.''
Many of the early college high schools were on college campuses, which was limiting. Hidalgo's public high school serves more than 800 students, and Mr. King was not interested in reaching only half of them. Instead, he proposed leveraging two grants to convert his entire school to the early college model. He created the first ''early college district'' in the country, according to Joel Vargas, a vice president at Jobs for the Future, the Boston-based organization that coordinates the nationwide initiative.
Hidalgo's first partner was the University of Texas-Pan American, a four-year university in Edinburg, 15 miles to the north. Later, Hidalgo joined with South Texas College, a community college in nearby McAllen, and Texas State Technical College.
Robert S. Nelsen, president of U.T.-Pan American, said a side effect of the collaboration had been a need to increase the rigor of his school's college courses to account for students' increased preparedness.
Similarly, middle schools have increased their standards to prepare students for early college high school. At Jaime Escalante Middle School in nearby Pharr, Maria Valencia, a sixth grader, recently chose St. Edward's University in Austin as her top college pick. Her next project is preparing to take the PSATs.
The middle school is in the 32,000-student Pharr-San Juan-Alamo Independent School District, where Mr. King now serves as superintendent. He is trying to replicate the success of the Hidalgo model in a district 10 times the size, and he is quick to leverage any sources he can to reach as many students as possible.
When the Texas Legislature passed a bill in 2007 granting money for high school students up to age 26, Mr. King opened a new school for older high school dropouts in a matter of weeks. That school, the College, Career & Technology Academy, also collaborates with South Texas College as part of a districtwide strategy to steer students toward jobs that meet the region's needs. Since opening, the academy has graduated more than 700 students who had previously given up on high school.
Shirley A. Reed, the president of South Texas College, believes the key to a successful partnership is leaders who are willing to get together and speak candidly. Luzelma Canales, the interim associated dean of community engagement and workforce development at the college, believes there is a simple reason such collaborations have flourished, to such an exceptional extent, in the Rio Grande Valley: it is a community with something to prove.
''No one else is going to get away with saying, 'You can't find educated people in our region,' '' Ms. Canales said. ''Other people have this perception that if you live along the border region, you must not be really smart. If we don't dismiss those myths, nobody else is going to.''
Of course, it is much easier to do when there is money available. ''There is definitely a cost,'' said Ed Blaha, superintendent of the Hidalgo school district and former principal of Hidalgo Early College High School, who now finds himself with tough decisions regarding his district's future.
Hidalgo has cycled through the grant that initially established the early college high school, and the state is facing a budget deficit that could put education financing in a vise for every district.
Mr. King said he hoped legislators realized that whatever the cost of fully financing public education was, ''it costs less than having a lot of dropouts.''
Mr. Blaha said Hidalgo would work through tough budgetary times as necessary.
''We've come this far,'' he said. ''We can't go back.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Dec. 24 about students' merging high school with college-level education misspelled the surname of the president of the University of Texas-Pan American. He is Robert S. Nelsen, not Robert Nelson.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Superintendent Daniel P. King and Angelica Morales last week at her graduation from College, Career & Technology Academy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABE HERNANDEZ FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)
 Students at the Early College High School program in the Pharr-San Juan-Alamo Independent School District in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DAEMMRICH/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CURRICULA (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); FARM LABOR (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); RANKINGS (67%); FOUNDATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



682 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: New Homes for Trigger, A Historian's Archive And a Kentucky Churn

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

 BODY:
In all the news this year of museums' shutting down and auctioning their displays, and all the collectors and dealers with legal problems who had to sell possessions, there was a smattering of good omens.
New museums emerged, devoted to Las Vegas's Mafia, the Appalachian Trail, New Hampshire maple syrup, Oregon filmmakers and Florida coast pirate life. Existing museums with still-healthy acquisition budgets sent out news releases about their high-profile auction purchases. A handful of collectors publicly bid on antiques and talked to the news media about what they could not resist on the market, although much salesroom action now occurs online or on the phone.
Here are five case studies of where the year's more intriguing auction lots ended up, most of them on public view. 
ROY ROGERS-DALE EVANS MUSEUM CONTENTS This year descendants of this Hollywood western couple shut down the museum, in Missouri, and consigned its artifacts to a handful of auction houses. The Autry National Center in Los Angeles is planning displays of its purchases: Rogers's plastic rose-patterned saddle, which sold for $74,750 in January at a High Noon Western Americana auction in Mesa, Ariz., and a worn wooden guitar ($8,750 from Christie's in New York in July) that Rogers bought as a teenager in 1929, when he still used his uneuphonious birth name, Leonard Slye.
Patrick Gottsch, the president of RFD-TV in Omaha, bought two taxidermied animals at Christie's: Rogers's palomino Trigger for $266,500, and Trigger's companion German shepherd, Bullet, for $35,000. Mr. Gottsch has sent the animals on a yearlong traveling exhibition, the ''Happy Trails Tour.''
Jamie Lee Nudie, a granddaughter of Rogers's and Evans's main costume designer, Nudie Cohn, spent $3,000 at Christie's on a cedar-lined wardrobe trailer that her grandfather built, and she plans to bring it out for parades and exhibitions near her home in Southern California. Pam Weidel and John B. Haines IV, collectors in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, paid $116,500 at Christie's for Rogers's roofless 1940s gray Jeep. In October it won a prize at an antique car show.
Ms. Weidel bought a few other lots at the auction and many more tempted her. ''I watched Roy Rogers all of my youth,'' she said. ''I still have more than one palomino. I'm a fool for them.''
ART HISTORIAN'S ARCHIVE James Amos Porter, a black artist and historian, trained at New York University and taught at Howard University from the 1920s to the '60s. In 1943 he published ''Modern Negro Art,'' one of the first surveys of the subject, and he spent his career resurrecting the reputations of little-known 19th-century African-American realists like Robert S. Duncanson, Henry Ossawa Tanner and Edmonia Lewis. Porter also studied the Cubists, folk artists and abstractionists of his own era.
In February Porter's family sold his archive for $50,400 at Swann Galleries in New York to Emory University's Manuscript, Archives and Rare Book Library in Atlanta, which is now sifting through 17 boxes and planning exhibitions. Scholars are looking forward to discoveries in the material, said Richard J. Powell, an art history professor at Duke University. Because Porter was a painter as well as a scholar, ''he had a discerning critical eye,'' Mr. Powell said. ''It will be fascinating to look closely at his opinions of the art of his moment.''
FOLK MONOPOLY The Strong National Museum of Play in Rochester owns a few dozen Monopoly sets, including recent variants with football, princess, Superman and ''Star Wars'' themes. In May it paid $10,350 for a handmade 1910s ancestor of the Parker Brothers game, with property names representing the streets of Altoona, Pa. Descendants of the set's maker, John Heap, sold it through Noel Barrett in New Hope, Pa.
In the 1970s the Heap family had testified about their forebear's handiwork during lawsuit proceedings over Monopoly trademark infringement. The Heap set, which suggested that folk versions of the game long predated its official 1935 patent, helped the economist Ralph Anspach in a battle with Parker Brothers; he defended his rights to sell a free-market-promoting toy called Anti-Monopoly, ''the 'Bust-the-Trust' Game.'' (The Strong also owns a copy of Mr. Anspach's invention.)
Last week at Sotheby's in New York, the Strong paid $146,500 for a 1933 Monopoly set, painted on canvas by the game's principal early promoter, Charles Darrow. The museum has not yet decided where to install the games. ''We're planning a redo for part of our second floor,'' said Nicolas Ricketts, the Strong curator. ''There may be room for a bit of the Monopoly story there.''
BANNERS' DAY A consortium of Maine museums, companies and private donors raised $275,000 over a few weeks this summer to keep together 17 cloth banners that the state's Victorian labor guilds had carried in parades. Painted with punning slogans like ''Strike While the Iron Is Hot'' (for the blacksmiths) and ''May Our Carriage Ever be Upright'' (the saddle and harness makers), the textiles had belonged to the Maine Charitable Mechanic Association, which auctioned them in August at James D. Julia in Fairfield, Me.
The consortium spent $125,350 on the banners. They have been taken to the Maine Historical Society, which will also research, conserve and display the fabrics. Images are already posted online in a virtual exhibition called ''A Celebration of Skilled Artisans.''
RECORD BUTTER CHURN The Museum of Early Southern Decorative Arts in Winston-Salem, N.C., has focused for a few years on expanding its holdings of antiques from the western edge of the Southeast. In October the museum set an auction record for Kentucky pottery: at Case Antiques in Knoxville, Tenn., it spent $55,200 on an eight-gallon butter churn with ''Kentucky 1836'' in blue script and the stamped name of the potter, Isaac Thomas. The piece, the earliest known ceramic vessel made in Kentucky, will be exhibited in a gallery about westward expansion, tucked between Kentucky cherry furniture and silverware.
The auction estimate was $3,000 to $3,500, but the museum ended up in a bidding war with a private collector. The final price ''caught us a bit by surprise,'' said the museum's chief curator, Robert Leath, ''but when you're determined, you're determined.''
Mr. Leath added that the two-foot-tall churn was ''a fantastic self-promoting object.''
''It's really shouting out its identity,'' he said. ''It tells you everything you could want to know about it, all in cobalt-blue decoration, on a monumental scale.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 30, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Friday with the Antiques column misidentified the board game shown. It is an ancestor of Monopoly made by John Heap early in the 20th century -- not a 1933 Monopoly set painted on canvas by the game's principal early promoter, Charles Darrow. (As the column noted, the National Museum of Play in Rochester bought both sets this year.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 1933 Monopoly set, painted on canvas by Charles Darrow. The Strong National Museum of Play paid $146,500 for it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STRONG NATIONAL MUSEUM OF PLAY)
 Roy Rogers's plastic saddle was among the items from the Roy Rogers-Dale Evans Museum sold at auction this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIGH NOON WESTERN AMERICANA, LOS ANGELES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); HISTORY (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (76%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (76%); ART HISTORY (74%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); CASE STUDIES (69%); DOGS (69%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (76%); FLORIDA, USA (72%); ARIZONA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



683 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Facing a New Politics, Obama Is Set to Shuffle His Staff

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama is planning the first major reorganization of his administration, preparing to shuffle several positions in the West Wing as he tries to fortify his political team for the realities of divided government and his own re-election.
The president is studying how to maximize the power of the executive branch, advisers said, seeking insight from veterans of previous administrations and fresh advice from business leaders to guide the second half of his term.
He is reviewing the restructuring plan during the holidays, aides said, and intends to make the first announcements in the opening days of January.
A reshaping of the economic team, beginning by naming a new director of the National Economic Council, is among the most urgent priorities of the new year. Gene Sperling, a counselor to the Treasury secretary who held the position in the Clinton administration, is among the final contenders to succeed Lawrence H. Summers in the job, along with Roger C. Altman, a Wall Street investment banker who also served in the Clinton administration. 
When Republicans assume control of the House on Jan. 5, ending four years of a full Democratic majority in Congress, the president's approach to policy and politics is poised to change on several fronts.
The White House is hiring more lawyers to handle oversight investigations from the new Congress, even as the president sets up a re-election headquarters in Chicago and considers ways to streamline operations inside the West Wing.
''You're not going to see wholesale changes, but there will be significant changes. I think that's desirable,'' said David Axelrod, a senior adviser who is leaving the White House next month. ''This is a bubble. It's been an intense couple of years, and there's an advantage to bringing in folks who have a fresh set of senses -- smell, touch and feel -- about what's going on out there.''
The first personnel change inside the White House is the arrival of David Plouffe, who managed Mr. Obama's presidential campaign. For the last two years, Mr. Plouffe has been one of the president's closest outside confidants, but he is set to replace Mr. Axelrod as his chief political adviser, with a broad portfolio.
Jim Messina, a deputy White House chief of staff, will depart early next year to manage the re-election campaign in Chicago. His departure, along with those of others inside the West Wing, has created vacancies among the president's top echelon of advisers that are at the heart of the reorganization plan.
At the final cabinet meeting of the year, on Dec. 8, the president renewed his request that if any members intended to step down, they needed to signal their intentions. White House officials said they believed that Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates is the only cabinet member who definitely plans to leave next year, although one other departure is possible.
There has been far less turnover for the Obama administration than for some of its recent predecessors. But at the midpoint of his term, several aides are considering new opportunities, including the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs. Mr. Gibbs will probably either become a senior adviser to the president or work outside the White House, defending Mr. Obama on television and beginning to define the field of 2012 Republican presidential candidates. The leading contenders for his job are Jay Carney, a spokesman for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and Bill Burton, a deputy press secretary.
Two months before the midterm elections, even before it became clear that Democrats would lose their Congressional majority, the president ordered a review of how the White House operated and how it could be modernized. The mission of the Reorganization Plan, as it is called at the White House, expanded after the sweeping Republican victory.
Pete Rouse, now the interim White House chief of staff, was already working on the plan in October when Rahm Emanuel stepped down as chief of staff to run for mayor of Chicago. The process has been a highly guarded secret even inside the White House, with Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser; Robert F. Bauer, the general counsel; and Mr. Axelrod also providing guidance.
The president was frustrated by the bureaucracy of the administration, aides said, and asked Mr. Rouse to recommend ways to improve internal communication and efficiency. Several recommendations were given to the president before he left Washington on Wednesday night to spend Christmas with his family in Hawaii, aides said.
The review has created anxiety in the corridors of the West Wing, where many aides who have spent at least four years working for Mr. Obama are uncertain of their next assignments. Some will be dispatched to Chicago, where the re-election effort is scheduled to be well under way by the spring, with the fund-raising, political and communications staff among the first to report for duty.
The week after the midterm elections, the president began an extensive series of one-on-one conversations in the Oval Office about how he could make the best use of the final two years of his first term.
Mr. Obama discussed the pitfalls -- and opportunities -- of divided government with former President Bill Clinton during a long meeting this month. He also has held private discussions with an array of figures, including Leon E. Panetta, the director of the C.I.A., who served as a chief of staff to Mr. Clinton; John D. Podesta, another former Clinton chief of staff; Tom Daschle, the former Senate majority leader; and Kenneth M. Duberstein, a former chief of staff to President Ronald Reagan.
Mr. Obama is reading the biography ''President Reagan: The Role of a Lifetime,'' by Lou Cannon, aides said, and recently completed ''The Clinton Tapes,'' by Taylor Branch, who chronicled the 42nd president through a series of private interviews.
Despite all his time studying the Clinton administration, Mr. Obama told his aides that he had no intention of following the precise path of Mr. Clinton, who after the Democratic midterm election defeats of 1994 ordered a clearing of the decks inside the White House, installed competing teams of advisers and employed a centrist policy of triangulation. In fact, several advisers confirmed, the word ''triangulation'' has been banned by Mr. Obama because he does not believe it accurately describes his approach.
On Wednesday afternoon, even as lawmakers were approving a burst of Mr. Obama's legislative priorities in the waning hours of the Congressional session, the president and a small circle of advisers convened to sketch out the next two months. Mr. Obama intends not only to extend a hand to Republicans but also to begin detaching himself more from Congress and spending more time making his case directly to the American people.
''In a world of divided government, getting things done requires a mix of compromise and confrontation,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. ''What are the things you can do without Congress? In some cases, that involves executive orders, but it also involves using the bully pulpit of the presidency to make a political argument about the direction of the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Gibbs, left, David Axelrod and Valerie Jarrett, boarding Air Force One in September, are involved in a West Wing reorganization planned for next month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Pete Rouse, left, the interim White House chief of staff, worked on a plan that includes the naming of David Plouffe, right, as chief adviser to the president, who is in Hawaii for the holidays. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ALAIN ISSOCK/REUTERS
 KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); PETE ROUSE (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); JIM MESSINA (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); ROGER ALTMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010



684 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Sitting Out the China Trade Battles

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG
No American company would seem to have more to gain than General Electric from the Obama administration's decision on Wednesday to accuse China, in a World Trade Organization case, of providing illegal subsidies to Chinese wind turbine makers.
Like other multinationals, G.E. acquiesced a few years ago to the Chinese government's demand that it build a large wind turbine factory in China -- only to then watch its market share plummet as China's state-owned power companies steered contracts to homegrown wind turbine manufacturers. And now G.E. faces growing competition from those Chinese upstarts in its home market, the United States -- even as a crucial G.E. wind turbine patent is about to expire.
But with so much to potentially gain from the administration's W.T.O. case, what was G.E.'s reaction? Total silence. The company said it would have no comment on the matter.
G.E.'s silence is part of a broader Western corporate reluctance to criticize Chinese policies, particularly in public. So eager are multinationals for continued access to the world's fastest-growing market that they are loath to cry foul even amid evidence that China may be flouting international trade laws. 
That reticence has long characterized foreign companies' dealings with the ascendant China. But last winter and spring, there were signs of a new willingness by American and European multinationals to speak out.
Google said in March that it would shut down its China-based Internet search engine, rather than continue allowing Chinese censorship. The leaders of big companies like G.E., as well as the German giants Siemens and BASF, voiced concerns in early summer about access to the Chinese market.
It briefly seemed that Western companies might take a more coordinated and more assertive position.
But that season of outspokenness seems to have passed, and virtually no companies are now willing to discuss the Chinese trade barriers publicly, executives and lobbyists in Beijing, Hong Kong and Washington said.
''We're seeing a lowering of the volume -- that doesn't mean the concerns have gone away, but the volume has come down,'' said Christian Murck, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in China.
China's solid rebound from the global economic downturn, compared with continued malaise in the West, has made the Chinese economy look like a much better place for Western companies to pursue near-term opportunities -- instead of fighting drawn-out trade and regulatory battles. It can take up to three years for a W.T.O. case to wend its way through a dispute resolution panel and any appeals.
Moreover, assurances from Chinese leaders that they will give equal treatment to foreign enterprises, although not yet backed up with specifics, have also persuaded some foreign companies that conditions will eventually improve. This has eroded whatever fragile consensus that had been starting to form in favor of speaking out against Chinese policies.
In fact, corporate leaders like G.E.'s chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, have taken a more conciliatory public stance toward China in recent months, saying that they would fine-tune their competitive tactics to adapt to Beijing policy. Experts on Chinese business culture say that Chinese regulators like to see such statements.
''It's communicating, 'I understand my place' -- that's very Confucian,'' said Judy Lam, a lawyer at Rutter, Hobbs & Davidoff in Los Angeles who specializes in deals spanning the Pacific. The statements show, she said, that ''the big American giant'' is ''willing to suck it up -- that will win them points.''
After the Obama administration announced its decision to pursue the trade case, the Chinese Ministry of Commerce denied in a brief statement on Thursday that the country's wind energy policies had violated W.T.O. rules.
Many countries help their clean energy industries, usually by subsidizing consumers who buy solar panels and other renewable energy equipment. Beijing's approach to clean energy subsidies has drawn criticism from trade experts because it is based on helping manufacturers localize production in China and begin exports.
And yet, no Western company was willing to file a trade case. It was the United Steelworkers, an American labor union with no sales to lose in China, that complained in September to the Obama administration, which opened a formal investigation in October.
G.E. and other American clean energy companies have avoided taking positions on that investigation. The only big company to step forward and strongly endorse it has been SolarWorld, a German company with solar panel manufacturing sites in Oregon and California, but not in China.
The United Steelworkers' trade case alleges dozens of violations by China.
The Obama administration filed a W.T.O. case on only one of those issues on Wednesday, and said that it was still investigating the rest but needed more time to do so, partly because it had not yet been able to gather all the information it needed.
''The pace and content of our investigation will depend in part on the role played by stakeholders, including manufacturers and service providers in the green technologies sector, in sharing evidence and other relevant information,'' said Nefeterius Akeli McPherson, a spokeswoman for the Office of the United States Trade Representative.
A Washington lobbyist for a wide range of corporations said that with sales barely growing in the United States and Europe, Western companies were particularly dependent on China for growth and inexpensive manufacturing. Retail sales in China are climbing nearly 15 percent a year. ''At the end of the day, they have to make their numbers,'' said the lobbyist, who insisted on anonymity because of the wariness of companies he represents.
The lobbyist added that many companies also feared retaliation by Chinese regulators. Chinese laws are often just a few pages in length, even on complex industrial or financial subjects. That leaves broad discretion to regulators on enforcing regulations that may help some companies and penalize others.
Regulators also have the authority in every industry to approve foreign investments, and even demand a say in details like what equipment will be purchased by foreign investors for their factories. Regulators have long used their involvement in the minutiae of corporate management, and their ability to delay even minor decisions, as a way to discipline companies for taking stances at odds with Chinese policy.
''They have shown themselves to be retaliatory, and it really has the intended effect,'' said a Western lawyer who advises many multinationals in China, and who insisted on anonymity because he said that he feared retaliation.
American policy makers almost never have the same discretionary powers to reward or penalize companies based on their cooperation or lack of it.
Some executives in China working for Western multinationals advocate taking a tough line in their negotiations with Chinese officials. But they say that the reluctance of other companies to take public positions means that united action is difficult.
A result, one senior Western executive said in an e-mail, is ''everybody eating bitterness in solitude.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gamesa of Spain has a wind turbine factory in Tianjin, China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG KANTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 A wind power generator in 2005 in the Nanhui district of coastal Shanghai. G.E. produced generators for the project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY XIAO LI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); TURBINE MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); CENSORSHIP (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SEARCH ENGINES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); SIEMENS AG (57%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



685 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1624 words

PERSON: Roy R. Neuberger 

HEADLINE: Roy R. Neuberger Dies at 107; Applied a Stock Trader's Acumen to Art

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
Roy R. Neuberger, who drew on youthful passions for stock trading and art to build one of Wall Street's most venerable partnerships and one of the country's largest private collections of 20th-century masterpieces, died on Friday at his home at the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan. He was 107 and had lived in New York City for 101 years.
His death was confirmed by a grandson, Matthew London.
Mr. Neuberger had set out to study art, but ended up as a stockbroker, a life path once likened to Gauguin's in reverse. As a founder of the investment firm Neuberger & Berman, he was one of the few people to experience three of Wall Street's major market crises, in 1929, 1987 and 2008. Although his artistic ability left no lasting impact, his wealth did. 
Believing that collectors should acquire art being produced in their own time and then hold on to it, giving the public access but never selling, Mr. Neuberger accumulated hundreds of paintings and sculptures by Milton Avery, Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning and others, becoming one of America's leading art patrons. Those works are now spread over more than 70 institutions in 24 states, many of them in the permanent collection of the Neuberger Museum of Art, which opened in 1974 on the Purchase College campus of the State University of New York.
The money to buy the works came from his investments at Neuberger & Berman (now Neuberger Berman), the brokerage and investment firm he founded in 1939 with Robert B. Berman. The firm catered to wealthy individuals but also took on a less affluent clientele with the establishment, in 1950, of the Neuberger Guardian mutual fund, one of the first funds to be sold without the usual 8.5 percent upfront sales commission.
His art collecting drew on the lessons he learned in the financial world. Each year he would buy more than he had bought the previous year, often purchasing large lots at a time. In 1948, for example, he bought 46 paintings by Milton Avery, whom Mr. Neuberger counted as a close friend. He eventually owned more than 100 Avery works.
''My experience on Wall Street made it possible for me to be comfortable buying a lot of art at once,'' he later wrote. ''In my investment firm, when we like a security after careful analysis, we buy a modest quantity. Sometimes after the purchase, we will find that we like it very much. If a large quantity of the stock then becomes available, and we are still enthusiastic about its value and its future, we will buy in quantity quickly, even though the day before we had no such plan and no knowledge that the stock would be available.''
''The same principle,'' he added, ''applied to my purchase of the Avery paintings.''Roy Rothschild Neuberger was born on July 21, 1903, in Bridgeport, Conn. His father, Louis, who was 52 when Roy was born, had come to the United States from Germany as a boy. His mother, the former Bertha Rothschild, was a native of Chicago, a lover of music (she played the piano) and a ''nervous, troubled woman from a large, well-to-do Jewish family, not related to the famous Rothschilds,'' Mr. Neuberger wrote in an autobiography, ''So Far, So Good: The First 94 Years'' (John Wiley & Sons, 1997).
His father was half owner of the Connecticut Web and Buckle Company and had an interest in the stock market, owning thousands of shares in a Montana copper company. The Neuberger family moved to Manhattan in 1909, settling on Claremont Avenue opposite Barnard College on the Upper West Side. Mr. Neuberger attended DeWitt Clinton High School, where in his senior year he was captain of the tennis team that won the Greater New York championship.
''Looking back on my youthful addiction to tennis, I find it not much different from my fascination with the market,'' Mr. Neuberger wrote in his autobiography. ''You have to make fast decisions. You can't wait to think about it overnight.''
A similar impatience led him to leave New York University after a single year. He felt, he wrote, ''that I could learn much more out in the world of business.''
It was while working for two years as a buyer of upholstery fabrics for the department store B. Altman & Company that he said he developed an eye for painting and sculpture as well as a sense for trading. Both would greatly influence his later life, as would John Galsworthy's series of novels ''The Forsyte Saga,'' which described the practice among well-to-do English families of educating their children on the European continent, and ''Vincent van Gogh,'' a biography by Floret Fels.
The first book led Mr. Neuberger to a sojourn in Europe. Using money inherited from his father, he set out in June 1924 for a life of leisure. While living mainly on the Left Bank in Paris, he spent afternoons at a cafe, played in tennis tournaments in Cannes and traveled to Berlin and other European capitals.
In Paris, Mr. Neuberger was inspired by the van Gogh biography to collect and support the work of living artists.
''Of course, to do so, I had to have capital of considerably more than the inheritance that gave me an annual income of about $2,000,'' he later wrote. ''In those days you could live very comfortably, almost luxuriously, on $2,000, but you couldn't buy art in quantity. So I decided to go back to work in earnest.''
He arrived on Wall Street in the spring of 1929, as the bull market was roaring toward its peak. Hired for $15 a week as a runner for the brokerage firm Halle & Stieglitz, he soon learned all aspects of the business, at the same time managing his own money.
One of the first big trades he executed on his own behalf was designed to hedge his own wealth against the possibility that the stock market might fall from its precarious height. He sold short 100 shares of the Radio Corporation of America, the most popular stock of the era, betting that its price would decline from its lofty level of $500.
In October 1929 came the crash that ushered in the Great Depression, and while Mr. Neuberger's blue-chip stocks fell, his bet against RCA paid off well: the stock's price eventually fell into the single digits. He said he lost only 15 percent of his money in the crash, while many others lost everything.
On June 29, 1932, the Dow Jones industrial average dipped to 42 and Mr. Neuberger married Marie Salant, a graduate in economics from Bryn Mawr who had gone to work in the research department of Halle & Stieglitz two years earlier.
''I can report that by June 29, 1996, the Dow Jones industrial average had climbed to 5,704 and Marie and I had had 64 wonderful years together,'' Mr. Neuberger later wrote. Mrs. Neuberger died in 1997.
Besides Mr. London, Mr. Neuberger is survived by his daughter, Ann Neuberger Aceves; his sons, Roy S. Neuberger of Lawrence, N.Y., and James A. Neuberger of New York City; seven other grandchildren; and 30 great-grandchildren.
Emboldened by his management of his own assets, Mr. Neuberger became a stockbroker at Halle & Stieglitz in 1930, leaving nine years later to start his own firm, Neuberger & Berman. The firm was later acquired by Lehman Brothers, but spun off in 2008 as a stand-alone company with Lehman's bankruptcy. Mr. Neuberger continued to go to his Neuberger Berman office every day until he was 99, Mr. London said.
Mr. Neuberger began to build his art collection in the late 1930s, and although he was asked to do so many times, he never sold a painting by a living artist. ''I have not collected art as an investor would,'' he said. ''I collect art because I love it.''
He preferred to share his love by donating works to museums and colleges. In May 1965, Mr. Neuberger received an anonymous offer to buy his art collection for $5 million, a sum he considered a fortune at the time.
Years later he learned that the offer had come from Nelson A. Rockefeller, then governor of New York. Mr. Rockefeller went on to play a key role in Mr. Neuberger's art collection. In May 1967, while Mr. Neuberger was visiting Mr. Rockefeller at his Pocantico Hills estate in Westchester County, the governor offered to have New York State build a museum to house the collection at the State University campus at Purchase.
Designed by Philip Johnson, the museum opened in May 1974. Mr. Neuberger often said that the true spirit of his collection could be found on the second floor, which held seminal paintings by Pollock, Stuart Davis, Edward Hopper and Georgia O'Keeffe, as well as many Milton Averys.
Mr. Neuberger made an additional gift of $1.3 million to the State University at Purchase in 1984 and other major gifts to the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He also served as a president of the New York Society for Ethical Culture and the American Federation of Arts.
Mr. Neuberger's second memoir, ''The Passionate Collector,'' was published by John Wiley & Sons in 2003. At a White House ceremony in 2007, President Bush presented Mr. Neuberger with a National Medal of Arts.
Like any collector, Mr. Neuberger rued the ones that got away. He remembered passing up a Grant Wood painting as well as refusing to pay $300 for a Jasper Johns in the late 1950s. One time a dealer offered him a Picasso sculpture for $1,500, but he declined because he was buying works only by American artists. ''I was such a square that I stupidly didn't buy it,'' he told The New York Times in an interview in 2003.
Mr. Neuberger bought all his works himself, usually through dealers. And his taste ran toward the bold. ''I liked adventuresome work that I often didn't understand,'' he told The Times as he was celebrating his 100th birthday. ''For art to be very good it has to be over your head.''
But he said he enjoyed the challenge that the work posed to the viewer. ''Those who understand the mysteries of art,'' he said, ''are made happier by doing so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Roy R. Neuberger, in 1974, amid his collection at the Neuberger Museum of Art at the State University campus at Purchase, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL EVANS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 President Bush presented Mr. Neuberger with a National Medal of Arts during a White House ceremony in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WHITE HOUSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PAINTING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); SECURITIES BROKERS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%)

COMPANY: NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance, Art

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



686 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Hire Locally Will Become the Law in San Francisco

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -- This city is about to enact one of the nation's toughest ordinances requiring its officials to hire locally, over the objections of neighboring counties that say it will hurt their residents. 
Under the ordinance, city contractors and subcontractors working on city-financed construction projects worth $400,000 or more would be required to hire at least 20 percent of their workers from San Francisco. The requirement will increase by 5 percent each year until it reaches 50 percent in 2017.
Contractors will be forced to pay penalties if they do not meet the requirement.
The legislation, however, exempts two major city-financed projects in San Mateo County: improvements to San Francisco International Airport and San Francisco's water system.
Mayor Gavin Newsom declined to veto the measure Thursday, meaning it will take effect next year. Even if he had vetoed it, the Board of Supervisors had enough support to override it -- they passed the measure 8 to 3 earlier this month.
In a letter to the supervisors, Mr. Newsom said the city should work with its neighbors.
More than 20 percent of construction workers and trade laborers in San Mateo County are unemployed.
Some San Mateo County leaders said they appreciated Mr. Newsom's effort to highlight their concerns but said a veto would have sent a stronger message.
''The economic recession has no boundaries,'' Assemblyman Rich Gordon, who represents much of the Peninsula and South Bay, told The San Francisco Chronicle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (90%); COUNTIES (90%); ORDINANCES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AIRPORTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



687 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: A Major Challenge: Getting Money Into China

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

 BODY:
From a cattle ranch in the country's northeast to a gym in Beijing, Jade Gray has been involved in his share of start-ups since arriving in China from New Zealand in 1996.
He is therefore no stranger to China's many rules on investing in the country.
''It's a very laborious process, and there a lot of hoops to jump through,'' said Mr. Gray, who began his fifth venture, the Gung Ho! Gourmet Pizza Factory delivery service, with a fellow New Zealander a year ago.
China's limits on the use of its currency, the renminbi, in foreign trade and investment have been in the spotlight for the way they help Beijing manage the renminbi's exchange rate and arguably tilt the direction of trade in China's favor. But when it comes to doing business in China, Mr. Gray and other experts say, China's capital controls pose only a minor aggravation for foreign investors willing to do their homework. ''It's loosened up a lot in the past 5 to 10 years,'' Mr. Gray said. 
China may be the world's second-largest economy after the United States, and the largest exporter, but the renminbi remains almost unheard of in international currency flows. ''There are technically very few ways for renminbi to flow out of China,'' said Christopher Xing, who advises on Chinese taxes at KPMG in Hong Kong.
That is because when China began opening up its economy in the 1980s, it decided against opening its currency market to avoid the kind of money inflows and outflows that can blunt a central bank's ability to manage an economy.
Perhaps the best example of the perils of an internationally convertible currency is none other than the United States. ''The problem with the U.S. is that the U.S. dollar is not only the dollar of the U.S. economy, but the dollar of the international economy,'' said Ye Xiang, a former economist at the Chinese central bank who is now co-head of a fund management firm in Hong Kong. ''So when the Fed wants to reduce interest rates and put liquidity into the U.S., liquidity will flow out and go into international markets.''
While it may be many companies' dream to sell to the 1.3 billion Chinese, getting money into China to set up is a formidable hurdle. ''This is the biggest challenge in terms of setting up your business,'' said Mr. Gray, who started Gung Ho! with an initial investment of $400,000.
A foreign company cannot convert a single dollar into renminbi -- whether to open a bank account, hire an employee or lease an office -- without first getting investment approval from the local branch of the Ministry of Commerce. ''If you want to bring in money into China for investment purposes, you need to have a project approved by the government,'' said Flora Sun, director of the China office in Shanghai of the consulting firm Brian Cave International Trade.
The process is different for investors who want to buy Chinese stocks. Once largely off limits to foreigners, China began in 2003 allowing some foreign investors to become qualified foreign institutional investors.
For businesses that want to start ventures in China, the easiest path may be to first set up a sales representative office, experts advise. But that means not being able to book any sales inside of China. Another route is to set up a joint venture with a Chinese partner.
The third option is to establish a wholly foreign-owned enterprise. Approval depends on whether the investment is in an industry prohibited for foreign investment, like, say, agriculture or publishing. If the proposed investment is not restricted and is below $300 million, it can be approved by the municipal or provincial authorities.
Anything larger has to go to the Ministry of Commerce in Beijing. If the proposed investment is in a restricted industry, the investment limit for local approval falls to $50 million.
Once the investment is approved and a business license is issued, the company has to get approval to convert its investment into renminbi from China's State Administration of Foreign Exchange.
And only after getting that can a foreign company open a local bank account and start spending money in China.
This presents some investors with a Catch-22: they need to invest renminbi to get approvals but cannot until they have approval to invest. One solution, Mr. Xing said, is to open a pre-investment bank account. This allows companies to spend up to $100,000 to set up their businesses and get investment approval, with the amount spent counted toward the new venture's approved investment capital.
The approved investment amount is an important number. It represents the maximum amount of capital the company can bring into China and convert into renminbi. If a foreign company wants to bring in more, it needs to get the investment reapproved through largely the same process, which can take up to two months.
As a result, some companies tend to apply for a larger amount of investment than they think they need, just in case, which leaves them with a surplus of cash sitting in a Chinese bank.
But another strategy is to mix start-up investment capital with loans from the company's owners, Mr. Xing said. The larger the investment, the more China allows the new venture to borrow. So while investors of $3 million or less can borrow only up to 30 percent of their total approved investment, those of $30 million or more can borrow up to two-thirds of their start-up capital, he said.
Whatever the mix, the company cannot convert any of its approved investment without proper documentation to show the bank. ''They won't allow you to convert U.S. dollars into renminbi immediately,'' Mr. Ye said. Investors need to show their bank an invoice or service agreement to convert their deposits and spend them.
Companies in China have to provide documentation -- an invoice and customs declarations -- to convert renminbi into foreign currency to purchase goods abroad.
In recent years, China has begun a pilot program that allows banks in a number of cities and provinces to settle cross-border trades in renminbi, part of a gradual effort by China to promote the use of its currency in international trade. But the transactions have to be approved by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, and the counterparties must be in Asia, Mr. Xing said.
China also regulates how foreign companies can repatriate their profit. Companies need to make sure they have paid corporate taxes first.
China then requires that they put 10 percent of their earnings into a general reserve. They can then apply to pay the remainder as dividends to their foreign owners by showing their books and a board resolution. China charges a 10 percent withholding tax on the payment, a relatively low amount in Asia, according to experts.
China also charges a 10 percent withholding tax on interest payments, as well as a 5 percent business tax. But there is no tax on repayments of loan principal, which is one reason why Mr. Xing says repaying shareholder loans can be more advantageous to foreign companies from a tax perspective than paying out dividends.
If this seems complicated, experts say, it pales next to the complexities of China's rapidly changing business scene.
''You've got competition and consumers changing their demands and needs at an incredible rate,'' Mr. Gray said. Selling pizzas topped with gourmet ingredients like grilled herb chicken and wine-soaked black currants, Camembert cheese and fresh herbs, he said, is aimed at Beijing's increasingly affluent diners.
''There's no doing formulas,'' he said of making a go of it in China. ''You just shoot in the dark. That's where experience comes in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister John Key of New Zealand, right, helped Jade Gray inaugurate his store in Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BERNARDO DE NIZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (59%)

COMPANY: PIZZA FACTORY (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HUNAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW ZEALAND (94%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



688 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Indexes in Britain and Canada Climb to Levels Last Hit Before the 2008 Crisis

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Shares in Britain closed above the 6,000 level on Friday, for the first time since June 2008, as British equities looked set for their strongest December performance since 1987.
And in Toronto, the main stock index ticked higher on Friday, keeping it on track to end the year at its highest level since the 2008 financial crisis.
The FTSE 100 in London rose 12.85 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,008.92. The British index is up 8.4 percent this month. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index rose 11.96 points, or 0.1 percent, at 13,383.16. It was its highest close since the end of August 2008. In its shortened trading day, rising oil prices and merger activity lifted energy and financial shares. 
Markets in the United States and most European countries were closed Friday, though the FTSE and the CAC 40 in Paris were open for a half-day. The Paris exchange declined 10.93 points, or 0.28 percent.
Trading was thin, with volumes at the two European exchanges under 10 percent of their 90-day daily average.
''The index turned around in the closing auction'' in London, said Jimmy Yates, head of equities at CMC Markets. ''Clearly the lack of volume helped with the sudden rebound.''
''There is plenty of Christmas cheer and good will out there to see the index close above 6,000,'' Mr. Yates said. ''Equities remain the preferred asset class.''
Stocks have lately been buoyed by expectations of a brighter economic outlook in the United States, with further stimulus, and continuing strength in China and India. But some analysts were cautious.
''I am not on the same camp as many investmentbanks that think we will have a fantastic 2011. We've got problems, we've got sovereign debt issues. On the peripheries, there are still issues that are outstanding that can clearly come back quite easily,'' said Jawaid Afsar, a trader at Securequity.
Fitch on Thursday cut Portugal's rating by one notch to A-plus, with a negative outlook. Even after the downgrade, however, Fitch's rating is two notches above that of Standard & Poor's A-minus. On Friday, Portugal's share index was flat, while shares of the Portuguese bank Banco BPI fell 0.4 percent.
Banks, which had dragged back the FTSE in early trading, turned flat, shrugging off Europe's debt concerns, while mining and energy stocks rebounded as investors' appetite for risk showed no sign of abating. Mining companies, for example, have gained more than 13 percent in December.
But Randgold Resources fell 3.3 percent after it said its fourth-quarter production would be hindered by political tension in Ivory Coast.
Analysts warned there could be a correction in the near term.
''While clearly this index is in a long-term uptrend, short-term traders still feel it is vulnerable to a near-term correction,'' said Enis Mehmet at Autochartist.
In Canadian trading, shares in Suncor Energy advanced 0.1 percent, to 38.34 Canadian dollars, and stock in the EnCana Corporation rose 0.4 percent, to 29.02 Canadian dollars.
''Energy keeps chugging along. It's certainly been the feature the last little while,'' said John Kinsey, portfolio manager at Caldwell Securities, pointing to a rise in the price of oil to over $90 a barrel.
The Toronto exchange will reopen on Dec. 29 for a short week ahead of the New Year holiday.
In Asian trading, stocks in Hong Kong and China slipped on Friday, with trading most active in the auto sector, where investors dumped shares in a thin market on new restrictions on car sales in Beijing.
The Hang Seng index fell 0.3 percent, to 22,833.8, in a shortened session. It posted a slight gain of 0.5 percent on the week after two successive weeks of declines.
Shanghai's main stock index fell 0.7 percent. The Shanghai composite is down 2 percent this week as a shortfall of funds in the financial system curbed the amount of cash available for stock trading. The money market is experiencing an acute squeeze after a series of official monetary tightening steps since mid-October.
News of Beijing's decision to limit car registrations to tackle traffic congestion in the capital prompted a sell-off in auto stocks, although some analysts played down the move as a knee-jerk reaction.
''The overall stock market is weak, not only the auto sector,'' said Chen Shaodan, a senior analyst at China Development Bank Securities in Beijing. ''People scrambling for money needed to sell some stocks and they made the auto news an easy excuse.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); AUCTIONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EURO CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%); MINES & MINING (60%)

COMPANY: TMX GROUP LTD (58%); BANCO BPI SA (51%); RANDGOLD RESOURCES LTD (50%)

TICKER: X (TSX) (58%); TXQ (FRA) (58%); BPI (LIS) (51%); RRS (LSE) (50%); GOLD (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (50%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%) ONTARIO, CANADA (91%) CANADA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (90%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (79%); INDIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



689 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Early Bid for a Reactor Site Draws Opposition in Texas

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Twenty years ago, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission rewrote its procedure for licensing reactors to cut the time it would take to build new ones. Now an important part of the system is getting its first test, as a Chicago-based nuclear utility clashes with a well-to-do group of Texas ranchers over preapproval of a site about 120 miles southwest of Houston.
The conflict involves the first application by a utility for approval of an entirely new site for a reactor without actually scheduling the construction of one. 
In this case, Exelon, the utility that has filed the application, has stated that it will not build on the site unless business conditions change. Meanwhile, opponents of the project figure that if they do not object now, they will never have another opportunity, and they say they have found unique problems with the geology of the spot.
The Victoria County project, named for the surrounding county, is 13 miles south of the city of the same name. Exelon says that because of low prices for natural gas, and the lack of a price on carbon dioxide emissions, it does not want to build a reactor there now; instead, it is applying for early site approval, the utility version of a family shopping for a house and getting pre-approved for a mortgage.
Why bother, for a project with no timetable?
Nuclear proponents say winning approval could lop months or years off the lead time to get a new reactor up and running, once the decision is made to build.
''I believe it is the right way to go,'' said Nils J. Diaz, who was chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission during the George W. Bush administration. If a company gets a site approved and later selects a reactor design that has been pre-approved by the commission, he said, ''this takes care of maybe 80 percent of all the issues.'' He added, ''You clear this hurdle and you bank the site for 10 or 20 years.''
Under the old system, the one used to build the 104 reactors now running, the government gave a utility permission to construct a plant, and as it neared completion, the parties spent months in hearings to determine whether it was safe to run.
Andrew C. Kadak, director of nuclear services at Exponent, a consulting firm, said that under the old system, a utility could get permission to build but then needed to wait, after construction was complete, for permission to run the plant. If a company must wait while an investment stands idle, he said, ''you really get killed.''
But some opponents are putting up a fight reminiscent of those that traumatized the industry in the 1980s. This time, though, no bulldozer has started work on the spot in question.
A prominent ranching family, the descendants of D. M. O'Connor, a South Texas pioneer, hired geologists who are raising detailed objections about ''growth faults,'' which do not lead to earthquakes but do cause subsidence, as the basin that includes the Gulf of Mexico grows.
A report, commissioned by an organization called Texans for a Sound Energy Policy, which was financed by the family, found that one fault had created a dip eight inches deep in a nearby road, according to the geology report, produced by a Colorado firm, John C. Halepaska & Associates. The report quotes from Nuclear Regulatory Commission guidance documents that say, ''Preferred sites are those with a minimal likelihood of surface or near-surface deformation.''
Another fault runs under the area staked out for the cooling pond of the new reactors. A shift could make the dikes around the pond collapse, according to the group, letting the cooling water drain away. The report also argues that among the 65 sites where nuclear power is now generated in the United States, only one, the South Texas Project, has any oil and gas wells on it.
The Victoria site is ''a pincushion,'' according to Bill Jones, a spokesman for the family. Old wells sometimes vent poisonous gas or combustible methane.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Jones said there was simply too little water during drought periods to allow the reactor to operate.
But Craig Nesbit, a spokesman for Exelon, said that the purpose of the pond was to let the plant draw water in wet periods and ride out the dry times. The pond, he said, is not part of the safety equipment required for safe shutdown.
''We wouldn't build a $10 billion facility there if we didn't think we could,'' he said.
The opposition, said Mr. Nesbit, was coming from ''families that have been there for many generations,'' who do not want changes in a landscape that has not been substantially altered in generations, either.
The project has some strong local support. The county government, the city of Victoria and the chamber of commerce have all passed resolutions supporting construction, said D. Dale Fowler, president of the nonprofit Victoria Economic Development Corporation.
''It's hard to really comprehend how many thousands of construction jobs would come in in this project,'' he said, along with 700 permanent full-time jobs at an average salary of $70,000.
He said the opposition was ''purely a not-in-my-backyard issue.''
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission's ruling on technical details involved in the project might take an extended period. But, Mr. Kadak pointed out, time is not critical now. And, he said, ''If this site passes early site permitting, that's one less hurdle when you really need the power.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); ENERGY SITING (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); EMISSIONS (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



690 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING INTERNATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Ministers Stand Pat on Crude Oil Supply

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said on Friday that they saw no need to supply the world with more crude as oil prices approached a two-year high, and some consumers said they feared that a rally above $100 a barrel would spur inflation. The most influential OPEC minister, Ali al-Naimi, of Saudi Arabia, said he was still happy with prices at $70 to $80 a barrel. He also said there was no need for an extra OPEC meeting before the next scheduled one in June. Crude closed at over $91 a barrel on Thursday in the United States, and Brent fell 48 cents at $93.46 on Friday after hitting $94.74 a barrel, its highest level since October 2008. Arab OPEC ministers are meeting in Cairo this weekend, where they are expected to discuss production and prices. There will be no decision on output. The United Arab Emirates oil minister said he wanted OPEC to comply better with output cuts the group agreed to in late 2008, and he added that the current price did not reflect fundamentals. Only Iraq's new oil minister, Abdul Kareem Luaibi, said the cartel could meet before June if market conditions changed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



691 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: For U.S. Investors, the Glow Is Off Domestic Stock Funds

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
THE love affair of American investors with the stock market appears to have ended.
The year now ending will be the fourth consecutive year in which mutual funds that invest primarily in American stocks experienced net outflows of funds, meaning that investors as a group withdrew more money than they put in.
That has happened even though the stock market has flourished over the last two years as it bounced back from lows reached in the spring of 2009 amid worries that the recession at the time would turn into Great Depression II. 
The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks had a total return of 26 percent in 2009, assuming reinvestment of dividends, and is on pace to post another double-digit gain this year. If current prices hold, they will be the best back-to-back years since 1998-99.
The accompanying charts show that investors took out $81 billion from such funds so far this year, significantly more than they took out in 2009 but well below the withdrawals of more than $150 billion in 2008, the year that Lehman Brothers failed.
The withdrawals this year were partly offset by money flowing into foreign stock funds and hybrid funds, which invest in both stocks and bonds. Investors seem more willing to trust in overseas markets, and a growing number are choosing so-called target-date funds, in which fund companies promise to choose the right mix of stocks and bonds depending upon when an investor expects to retire.
The figures come from the Investment Company Institute, a trade group of mutual funds that has been compiling the totals since 1984. They include estimates of trades through mid-December.
Before 2007, there had been net withdrawals from domestic stock funds only in 1988 and 2002.
The first of those years came after the 1987 crash, which scared many investors as the market fell more than 20 percent in one day. But it recovered all of that loss and more in 1988, and many investors learned from that experience that market declines presented buying opportunities, not reasons to sell. The assumption that stocks were sure to rise, at least in the long run, became widely accepted.
That confidence was challenged by the collapse of the technology stock bubble in 2000 and 2001, and in 2002 Americans were again net sellers of stock mutual funds. But the market rallied starting in late 2002, and by the next year Americans were back to investing in stock funds.
The stock market collapse in 2008 and early 2009 appears to have inflicted far more psychological damage -- damage that may have been intensified by the collapse of home values and the deep recession that hit the country, and by the fact that many stocks had not recovered the highs they had reached in 2000. For perhaps the first time since the late 1970s, many Americans seem to have become pessimistic about the future of their country.
For the 10 years through 2010, figures for the final two weeks of the year will determine whether there was any net investment in domestic stock funds. (The estimate so far is that $4 billion flowed out.) By contrast, in the prior 10 years, Americans put $1.3 trillion into such funds.
In some ways, the current mood is reminiscent of the one that prevailed then. In 1979, Business Week had a cover article on the ''Death of Equities,'' which it attributed in large part to rising inflation. By 1982, inflation had begun to fall, but the country was in a deep recession. That is when the great bull market of the 1980s began. Few investors seem confident that such a renewal of optimism is likely this time.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Net cash flows into mutual funds: U.S. STOCK FUNDS
INTERNATIONAL STOCK FUNDS
 HYBRID FUNDS (Source: Investment Company Institute) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); HOME PRICES (69%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



692 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Suffer the Little Children

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
As we celebrate this Christmas with the sound of tiny feet rushing toward a tree to rip open presents, let's take a moment to consider the children less fortunate -- the growing number who live in poverty in this country. 
According to the National Center for Children in Poverty, 42 percent of American children live in low-income homes and about a fifth live in poverty. It gets worse. The number of children living in poverty has risen 33 percent since 2000. For perspective, the child population of the country over all increased by only about 3 percent over that time. And, according to a 2007 Unicef report on child poverty, the U.S. ranked last among 24 wealthy countries.
This is a national disgrace.
Yet the reaction to this issue in some quarters is still tangled in class and race: no more welfare to black and brown people who've made poor choices and haven't got the gumption to work their way out of them. The truth is, neither the problem nor the solutions are that simple.
Yes, the percentage of blacks, Hispanics and American Indians living in low-income homes is about twice that of whites and Asians. This raises unpleasant cultural questions that must be addressed. But that's not the whole story. Despite the imbalance, white children are still the largest group of low-income children.
Furthermore, the British may have created a road map for us that dramatically reduces child poverty while not relying solely on handouts. A report released this month by Jane Waldfogel of Columbia University and the London School of Economics paints a fascinating portrait of how smart policies and targeted investments in that country have produced stellar results.
In 1994, about 30 percent of British children were below the country's poverty threshold. Fifteen years later, that number has fallen to 12 percent. Over that same time, the number of American children below our poverty line slipped a bit then rose again as the economy turned sour. It is now approaching its 1994 level.
How did the British do it? It was a three-pronged attack.
First, they established a welfare-to-work program and a national minimum wage (which, at about $9, leaves ours wanting) and instituted tax reductions and credits for low-income workers. They made work more attractive, and people responded. The report said, ''Lone-parent employment increased by 12 percentage points -- from 45 percent to 57 percent -- between 1997 and 2008.''
Second, they raised child welfare benefits, especially for families with small children, whether or not the parents worked.
Third, they invested directly in the lives of young children with things like doubling paid maternity leave, providing universal preschool, assisting with child care and allowing parents of young children to request flexible work schedules.
The British example shows that child poverty is not an intractable problem. If we can rise above the impulse to punish parents and focus on protecting children, we might replicate Britain's success.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Good Trend, Bad Trend: Child poverty rates in Britain and America, using each country's official measure of absolute poverty. (Source: ''Tackling Child Poverty and Improving Child Well-Being: Lessons from Britain'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CHILD CARE (77%); FAMILY (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MATERNITY LEAVE (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); FLEXTIME (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



693 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: GE Capital to Sell Mexico Unit To Santander for $162 Million

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
General Electric's finance unit, GE Capital, agreed on Friday to sell its Mexican consumer mortgage division to Santander of Spain for 2 billion pesos, or $162 million, part of the industrial giant's strategy to sell off noncore financial assets. 
Under the terms of the deal, Santander will take over GE Capital's consumer mortgage unit in Mexico, which includes a $2 billion loan portfolio. GE Capital has provided mortgages in the country since 2002.
Santander disclosed the price of the transaction in a regulatory filing with the Mexican stock exchange. The deal is expected to close in the first half of next year.
Before the financial crisis, G.E. had relied on GE Capital for years to bolster its profits. The unit provided handsome revenue from commercial lending, and eventually provided nearly half of the parent company's profits.
But the market turmoil of 2007 and 2008 revealed weaknesses in the unit, including its heavy exposure to commercial real estate and subprime mortgages, the latter of which arose from an ill-timed 2004 purchase of WMC Mortgage of California.
Since the crisis, G.E. has sold off assets to refocus the division on safer industrial finance operations. (It sold WMC in 2007 for a $1 billion loss.)
G.E.'s chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, said in a recent interview that he intended to limit GE Capital to areas in which G.E. already had a strong presence, including power generation, aviation and health care equipment, and lending to midsize industrial companies.
''This sale is consistent with our strategy to exit nonstrategic businesses that lack scale to help reduce GE Capital's balance sheet while investing in core industrial and commercial finance platforms, including in Mexico,'' Mark Begor, the chief executive of GE Capital's restructuring operations, said in a statement.
Santander said that the deal would make it the second-biggest mortgage lender in Mexico.
''This acquisition is evidence of Santander's confidence in Mexico, and is consistent with Santander's strategy in Mexico of investing in the strengthening of our franchise,'' Marcos Martinez Gavica, the executive president of Financiero Santander, said in a statement.
G.E. said it expected to continue doing business in Mexico, focusing on commercial lending in other sectors like real estate, transportation and aircraft financing.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (97%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (91%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (97%); GEC (LSE) (97%); GE (SWX) (97%); GE (NYSE) (97%); SANT (LIS) (91%); SANT (BIT) (91%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (91%); SAN (NYSE) (91%); SAN (MCE) (91%); SAN (BMV) (91%); BNC (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (94%); SPAIN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



694 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Spanish Takeover Bid Rattles German Markets

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
Talk about a takeover with a twist: few would believe that a debt-heavy construction conglomerate that relies on the stagnating Spanish economy for most of its revenue could take over a 137-year-old, cash-rich German blue chip.
But such is the intent of Grupo A.C.S., a Spanish construction and building services company, in its audacious bid to acquire Hochtief, a German building conglomerate. The offer has rattled the political and corporate establishment in Germany and comes against the backdrop of Germany, Europe's strongest economy, perhaps having to lead an expensive rescue of Spain, thought to be the next casualty of the euro zone's debt crisis.
The 4.9 billion euro, ($6.4 billion) all-share bid by A.C.S. has been rejected, with prejudice, by the management team at Hochtief. It has also drawn a reaction from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who has said that the company should not be moved from its headquarters in Essen. 
None of that has deterred Florentino Perez, the billionaire chief executive of A.C.S., who is also president of the Real Madrid soccer team. Mr. Perez is a man who is used to getting what he wants, whether it is talent for his team (he recently paid top dollar for two of Germany's outstanding young players, Sami Khedira and Mesut Ozil) or accumulating the diverse range of companies that now make A.C.S. one of the largest building services companies in the world, with annual revenue of close to $21 billion.
On Thursday, Mr. Perez moved a step closer to finishing off his biggest deal ever when A.C.S. announced that it had accumulated a 27.7 percent position in Hochtief. A spokeswoman for A.C.S. said the company was ''very confident'' that it would reach the 30 percent level by next week. Under German securities law, a 30 percent stake enables a potential acquirer to buy more shares of the target company on the open market without making public disclosures on its way to reaching 50 percent and assuming control.
The hostile A.C.S. bid for Hochtief has brought a level of intrigue and venom that, while par for the course in the United States, has come as a shock to the normally placid German capital markets. The approach has been described in Germany as an ''unfriendly bid,'' as the German word for hostile, feindlich, is seen as inappropriate in a corporate context.
Hochtief has accused A.C.S., which owned 29.98 percent of the company before the bid and a subsequent dilution of shares, of bad boardroom manners by announcing the surprise offer on Sept. 16, just a week after a board meeting that included Hochtief and A.C.S. executives in which there was no talk of any such approach.
The German company, which receives more than 90 percent of its annual revenue of $24 billion from outside Germany, said that Spanish control would dilute its ''made in Germany'' brand, load the company up with A.C.S. debt and leave it dangerously exposed to the sickly Spanish economy.
A.C.S., an abbreviation for Actividades de Construccion y Servicios, has responded that the merger would create perhaps the most powerful building services company in the world -- one that would manage airports in Greece and toll roads in Europe and the United States, and also have a large exposure to booming Asian markets. Hochtief's most profitable markets are in Asia and the United States, while A.C.S. derives most of its business from Spain and Latin America.
The Spanish company has said it has no plans to change Hochtief's strategy and has professed some surprise at the German company's aggressive response in its defense.
Hochtief's most notable move was a deal in early December to sell the government of Qatar a 9 percent stake at about a 10 percent discount to the market price -- a ploy that enraged the company's second-largest shareholder, Southeastern Asset Management of Memphis.
In a furious letter to management, Southeastern, which holds 4.84 percent of Hochtief, described the discounted sale as nothing more than a $348 million payment to Qatar in advance of future construction projects.
In response, Southeastern said it would sell half its Hochtief holding last week to A.C.S. at a slight discount to the market price of around 65 euros a share. That sale pushed the Spanish company closer to the 30 percent ownership threshold.
Southeastern, which manages about $32 billion, is a buy-and-hold investor not known for taking activist stands. But Scott Cobb, Southeastern's portfolio manager overseeing its European investments, said Hochtief's discount deal with Qatar left him no choice but to sell part of his own stake.
''These guys don't own any shares, and human nature tells you that all they care about are their bonuses and salaries,'' he said, referring to Hochtief's chief executive, Herbert Lutkestratkotter, and his executive team. ''This was an absolute and unjustifiable failure of corporate governance.''
Hochtief's response was that the opportunity to bring in an investor like Qatar was too good an opportunity to pass up and was in line with its broader strategy of expanding in the Middle East.
What is more, Southeastern's large position in A.C.S. (it holds 6.5 percent) and the fact that it began to take a position in Hochtief only in late 2009 -- its last big purchase was in late August, less than three weeks before A.C.S. made its bid public -- has fed suspicion in the German market that A.C.S. and Southeastern were working in concert.
''It is interesting to see Southeastern tender its shares below the actual share price,'' said Christian Gerhardus, a spokesman for Hochtief.
Mr. Cobb disputes any claim of teaming up with A.C.S. and says that the August purchase was ''completely coincidental.'' A spokeswoman for A.C.S. said that the bid for Hochtief was independent and that company was not working in concert with Southeastern.
All the ruffled feathers notwithstanding, Mr. Perez's motive in pushing forward is clear. A.C.S.'s stock price has been hurt by the view that it will suffer together with the Spanish economy and that its debt burden of 9 billion euros will continue to hamper its significant ambitions. From a high of 50.60 euros in June 2007, the stock has been a poor performer and closed Thursday at 35.70 euros. By taking control of Hochtief, not only would the company get exposure to Hochtief's booming business in Asia and the United States, it would reduce its debt in absorbing Hochtief's healthier balance sheet -- and at a price that analysts agree is a steal.
''This is a very good chance for A.C.S.,'' said Marc Gabriel, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf. ''The offer is currently 63 euros, and we see fair value in Hochtief at 91 euros.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Hochtief construction site. The company earns more than 90 percent of its annual revenue of $24 billion outside Germany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Florentino Perez, chief of A.C.S., says the merger would create the world's most powerful building services company (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS DOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BUILDING & FACILITIES SERVICES (71%); SOCCER (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (61%)

COMPANY: HOCHTIEF AG (85%); AC SA (72%)

TICKER: HOT (FRA) (85%); ACG (WSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (85%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (85%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (72%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



695 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Putting That Tax Holiday To Work

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
The biggest Christmas present that many people will get this year comes from the federal government. And most will probably fritter it away.
Thanks to the tax bill that President Obama signed a week ago, a large number of Americans will get a yearlong discount on their payroll taxes in 2011. Normally, employees pay 6.2 percent of their salaries, up to a $106,800 limit, toward Social Security. In 2011, that number will fall to 4.2 percent.
As a result, individuals could end up with a payroll tax savings of up to $2,136 in 2011, according to CCH, a tax information provider. Households with two wage earners who both make more than $106,800 will get $4,272, double the amount for individuals.
The self-employed will share in the yearlong tax holiday as well, though they will still be liable for the full 6.2 percent of the employer contribution to Social Security. As a result, they'll pay 10.4 percent in payroll taxes instead of the usual 12.4 percent. 
Some government workers and others who do not contribute to Social Security will not get this temporary break. And as Roberton Williams of the Tax Policy Center pointed out in a blog post earlier this month, the payroll tax holiday represents a net loss for many low-income individuals, who will lose access to the Making Work Pay tax credit, which expires at the end of the year.
Still, the payroll tax break is a handout worth about $120 billion, according to the White House. And the administration hopes that you will spend every cent to help get the economy going again.
In fact, the tax break was shaped with just that in mind. When money dribbles into a paycheck, as this tax break will for many millions of workers, they tend not to save it in the same way that they might if it came in the form of a lump-sum check.
But you should think before you spend. This is too big of a potential win for you to be anything but deliberate in your effort to put every last dollar to good use. No matter your goal, whether it is to pay off debt or save for a large purchase or retirement, it's probably best to automate your efforts to collect the money.
Here's how to do it:
WHAT YOU'LL GET First, estimate your winnings. The personal finance magazine Kiplinger's put a calculator up on its Web site this week that can help. (I've linked to it from the online version of this column.)
Keep a couple of things in mind, though. First, the calculator covers only the 2011 tax cut; it doesn't account for the $400 maximum per person you may lose if you qualified in 2010 for all or part of the Making Work Pay tax credit, which is about to expire. Also, it may take a few more weeks before your employer or the company that handles its payroll has updated its software to reflect the change. Keep a close eye on your check and how it changes, and remember to take any 2011 salary increase into account.
PAYING DOWN DEBT If you're paying interest of 15 or 20 percent or more on a credit card or other loan balance, it's probably best to take your gift from the government and apply it to that debt. Hopefully, you're already using some sort of automated payment system to make sure you pay your bills on time, so as to avoid late fees and interest charges.
Now that you have a bit more money, you can adjust your monthly payment higher by the additional amount you are getting from the government. This trick works with mortgage and car payments as well. Just make sure the lender is applying any extra money to paying down the principal.
GIVING MORE AWAY This three or four-figure 2011 bonus isn't available to people who have no wages. And many of those who are unemployed are placing increased demand on nonprofit organizations that provide housing, food and other services.
Many of these organizations are happy to set up a recurring donation, where they will charge your debit or credit card for whatever portion of your 2011 tax break you want to give them each month. Or, you could push part or all of the additional money to them via a personal check every so often by scheduling a regular payment through the online bill-paying system at your bank.
SAVING FOR A BIG SPLURGE If you're determined to reward yourself after a couple of years of hunkering down, at least have the discipline to salt away the money each pay period until you have enough to pay in full for whatever it is you have your eye on. You can do this by pushing money from your checking account to a dedicated savings account, and most of the online savings banks are happy to pull money from your checking account automatically on a regular basis.
SmartyPig, however, is custom-made for this sort of save-to-splurge scheme. It pays a 1.75 annual percentage yield for balances under $50,000 right now, which beats any other rate that I've been able to find. And it forces you to be disciplined, since you can't use the service unless you allow it to pull money from your checking account regularly.
Plus, if you put your savings toward spending at its partner merchants, you get a bonus by putting your money on those stores' gift cards. American Airlines offers a 3 percent bonus, for instance, so $500 of SmartyPig savings would yield a $515 American gift card. Lands' End, L. L. Bean and Macy's all offer over 10 percent bonuses.
Just check the prices for your items first. A 10 percent bonus toward luggage does you no good if the bag is available for 20 percent less elsewhere.
Also, before you splurge, think hard about whether a new big expense might pop up in 2011, say higher health insurance premiums or higher property taxes, for which you'll need to write a big check.
RETIREMENT Think you know better than policy makers in Washington? Then take all of this money and put it toward your retirement, even if you need to put it in a regular brokerage account because you've maxed out more traditional options like a 401(k) or other tax-privileged retirement account. After all, it was supposed to go toward Social Security in the first place.
If you're not already maxing out your 401(k) or similar plan contribution at work, raise the amount that your employer takes from your paycheck to match the temporary raise you're getting because of the payroll tax holiday. This is especially crucial if you're not taking full advantage of any matching funds that your employer may offer. If you have no workplace retirement plan, the entity that has your individual retirement account or other traditional brokerage accounts should be able to pull money regularly from your bank.
The real beauty here is in the potential for compounding. That luggage bought with the gift card will only depreciate. But $2,000 will turn into $11,487 if it earns 6 percent a year over 30 years.
Your tax dollars at work, right? And you're going to need them 30 years from now if we keep declaring holidays like this one.
Joe Nocera, whose Talking Business column normally appears on this page, is off.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Included in the tax cut bill that President Obama signed this month was a cut of two percentage points in the payroll tax. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX RELIEF (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); WEB SITES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010



696 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2322 words

HEADLINE: 'Daddy, Read for Me'

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
THERE once was a man who read an unabridged dictionary from cover to cover to keep from losing his mind. Solitary confinement can do that to you, make you read what you would never look at on the outside, and then read more and more of it, to preserve your sense of humanity, maybe, but certainly to maintain whatever flimsy connection you hold to the world beyond your prison cell.
The other choice was to go crazy, or at least that was how it felt to Jose Rosado, or Jose Rosaldo, or Jose Reyes; his identity varies based on his crime and conviction. Mr. Rosado, 42, is a scraggy recovering addict with a 10th-grade education halfway through an eight-month stint on Rikers Island.
Mr. Rosado, known around the jailhouse as ''professor,'' has a wife, three sons and 52 books waiting for him in a public-housing project in East New York, Brooklyn. The books have been his anchor, he said, grounding him not to reality, but to distant times, faraway places and magical corners of his imagination, where heroin does not command him to do the bad things he has done. 
For nearly a decade, Mr. Rosado has often spent 23 hours a day alone in a cell in the criminal justice system's equivalent of ''time out.'' That was where he read -- about Freemasonry and kabbalah, about ancient history, anthropology and archaeology. He has read the Bible and the Koran -- ''the whole 114 suras,'' or chapters, he said, ''from Al-Fatiha to Al-Nas,'' the first and the last.
''Knowledge will get you to a lot of places,'' Mr. Rosado said.
It did not keep Mr. Rosado out of Bare Hill, Clinton, Southport and Attica -- prisons across New York State, far from his home in Brooklyn. He has been in and out since 1989, for burglary and drugs and, most recently, third-degree assault, often extending his stints with bad behavior: his prison disciplinary record runs for six pages.
These days, Mr. Rosado is reading ''Fox in Socks'' and ''Hop on Pop'' and ''Clifford y la Hora del Bano.'' Juan Camacho, 35, a drug dealer and father of two, is partial to ''The Cat in the Hat'' (though he says he did not like the movie as much because ''it doesn't have the same rhyming, the classic of it''). And Qaaid Reddick, 27, who has never met his third daughter because she was born while he was behind bars on a weapons charge, is paging through ''Merry Christmas, Curious George.''
They are three of the eight men at the Eric M. Taylor Center -- one of nine jails on Rikers Island -- who completed a five-week literacy course this fall called ''Daddy and Me,'' in which they recorded themselves reading children's books for the sons and daughters they had left behind. It was the first time such a program had been tried at Rikers, though there have been many similar efforts, most focusing on female inmates in prisons across the country, since at least 1996.
''People are multidimensional,'' said Dora B. Schriro, the city's Correction Department commissioner. ''Part of being a man is being a dad, and part of being a good man is being a good dad, in the most fundamental sense of the word.''
Financed with about $3,800 from a family literacy grant from the state, the program at the Taylor Center was run by Nick Higgins, supervising librarian at the New York Public Library's correctional services program. On the first day, Mr. Higgins told the inmates, ''Our objective is to hopefully change the attitude that some of you might have about reading to children, that reading is Mom's job.''
Over five weeks, Mr. Rosado learned to calibrate his raspy voice to a higher pitch. Mr. Camacho learned to contort his facial muscles into humorous expressions. Mr. Reddick, on the back end of his sixth stay at Rikers since 2005, rediscovered ''The Little Engine That Could,'' a book he remembered reading in elementary school.
THE inmates -- in olive-green jumpsuits that seemed too big for their frames, with the names of their mothers, girlfriends and children tattooed on their skin -- had a long table of children's books from which to choose: ''Goodnight Moon,'' ''The Itsy Bitsy Spider,'' ''El Zorrito.''
''I like monkeys,'' Mr. Reddick said as he got acquainted with Curious George. ''They're the closest thing to a human being.''
As a child, Mr. Reddick lived on East 92nd Street in Manhattan, near a Presbyterian church that had a strawberry shortcake festival he never missed. He said he was arrested for the first time at age 14 for punching a boy who had disrespected him. Since then, he has been in and out of prison, mostly for assault; on May 29, he was arrested on Staten Island with a gun in his backpack. When asked where he grew up, Mr. Reddick said, ''Right here,'' meaning Rikers. He has three daughters: Mary Jane is 4, Ma'Naiya is 3, and Mya was born on Oct. 18. He was looking forward to the celebration at the end of the reading program, when children would visit their fathers and get the CDs the men had recorded on a Marantz PMD660, because it would be the first time he would see the baby.
At the first session, Mr. Reddick tried reading in front of the group, but was barely audible. ''See the man in the yellow hat at the -- '' He stopped midsentence and stuck out his tongue. ''I misspoke,'' he said sheepishly. At the third session, he read the book until the end, but with no inflection in his voice, as if he had been forced into it. By the next week, when it was time to record, he had abandoned the little monkey for the little engine he recalled from his childhood: I think I can, I think I can.
That was for Mary Jane. For Ma'Naiya, he chose ''Papa, Do You Love Me?'', a modern story inspired by the Masai tribe in Kenya. Mr. Reddick had never heard of the book, but he liked the title. He did not select a story for Mya.
''Mya is too little for books,'' Mr. Reddick said.
On the program's fifth and final session, last month, Mr. Reddick and the others were escorted to the jail's visiting room. Each of them commanded a set of colorful chairs arranged in a circle to welcome their families. Mr. Reddick sat among the red and green chairs, waiting. He watched as the other inmates hugged their babies and their babies' mothers. He listened to them read their stories.
A girl laughed heartily as her father tickled her belly. A woman asked one of the correction officers if her daughter could have another cup of juice. The officer told her she did not have to ask; the juice and doughnuts had been laid out for the families.
Mr. Reddick sat alone for some time, staring at the CDs and books on the table before him, then staring into nothing. Eventually, he joined two other inmates whose families had not come either. They chatted, their backs turned to the men whose families were there.
He knew Mary Jane and Ma'Naiya would not be coming; they live on Staten Island with his sister, who, he said, thinks they should not see their father in jail. But he had expected Baby Mya. Later, he learned that her mother had woken up too late to catch the bus.
''No promises made, no promises broken,'' Mr. Reddick shrugged.
MR. CAMACHO said he had a lot of children's books in the apartment in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx, where his wife, Jasmine Bosch, lives with their two boys, Jose, 8, and Steven, 4; two dogs; and a cat named Tiger. But none were visible on a visit to the first-floor one-bedroom apartment one rainy afternoon. Ms. Bosch, who is 27 and unemployed, said that there were some, in a bin somewhere in the boys' closet, but that she had no time to read them.
Ms. Bosch said that she woke up at 6:30 a.m. and that by 7, she and the boys would already be fighting. She fights to rouse Jose, to get him ready and out the door to get to school on time. She fights to keep Steven under control as she rushes to get breakfast.
Sometimes, cockroaches emerge from under the kitchen cabinets and crawl onto the table. Ms. Bosch said that she had gotten used to the roaches, but that she did not like the mice. That's why she got Tiger. Tiger likes to eat cockroaches, too.
The apartment smells like stale cigarettes. Ms. Bosch smokes Newports, which she buys by the carton in New Jersey. She said she tried not to smoke in front of the boys, and also not to cry.
''I do my best,'' she said.
While Jose and Steven are in school, Ms. Bosch said, she washes and folds, cooks and cleans, feeds Tiger and walks the dogs, one of whom is an old mutt who is half-blind and tends to crash into everything.
Ms. Bosch is dyslexic. She cannot read to the boys unless it is an easy book. Jose is dyslexic, too, ''or something like that,'' she said. ''He needs help when he brings homework home.''
It was Mr. Camacho who taught the boys to write their names. Steven traced his four times that rainy afternoon. ''Homework,'' he said, waving the sheet of paper over his head.
During the Daddy and Me sessions, Mr. Camacho stumbled over the silly singsong of ''The Cat in the Hat,'' at one point saying, ''I can already imagine Jose giggling.'' Then, he said he hoped the boys would not be afraid of making mistakes, but would learn from them and not repeat them.
At the final session, he told Jose, who is 4-foot-11 and weighs 120 pounds, to eat more fruit. Then, before his family walked away, he grabbed the boy by the arm and said, ''When you hear my voice, remember that daddy is there with you.''
Mr. Camacho has been at Rikers since June. The police had found 56 bags of crack cocaine in the pocket of a jacket in a hallway closet in his home, along with a marijuana pipe and five .38 Special bullets. Ms. Bosch kept track of the days until his scheduled Dec. 15 release on a calendar taped to the wall.
''My baby is coming home soon,'' she said in early November.
But it did not turn out that way.
Instead, on Nov. 17, Mr. Camacho was transferred to the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Lower Manhattan, to face federal drug conspiracy charges that carry a minimum sentence of 10 years.
A federal indictment said Mr. Camacho -- or ''Papito Camacho,'' as he is known on the streets -- had sold a dozen bags of crack to an undercover police officer near his home on Manida Street, part of an enterprise that involved 12 others.
IN the recording room, Mr. Rosado pronounced Seuss as ''Zeus'' and read the words of ''Fox in Socks'' as if he were singing a rap song. ''This-is-what-they-CALL-a-TWEET-le-BEE-tle-NOO-dle-POO-dle-BOT-tled-PAD-dled-MUD-dled-DUD-dled-FUD-dled-WUD-dled-FOX-IN-SOCKS-sir!''
He turned the page.
''There goes that little girl you like,'' he said into the microphone, his eyes on one of the book's characters, Sue, with her wavy hair and lips locked in a perpetual frown.
He was speaking to a child who was not there: Karabali, 7, his eldest, who was named for a character in a Puerto Rican legend Mr. Rosado once read in prison, a runaway slave who eluded his captors even after his death. His second son, Cofresi, 6, is named after a 19th-century Puerto Rican pirate who robbed ships carrying gold from the island. The third is Jose, who is 5 and named for his father, a Puerto Rican who has a long rap sheet filled with heroin and burglary convictions.
Mr. Rosado bought his first book out of a prison catalog, in 1994, after he was ordered to spend 365 days in isolation for slashing another inmate. It was Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, and it cost $99, he said.
Later, he read Sun Tzu's ''Art of War,'' which dissected military operations written more than 2,000 years ago. He read Robert Temple's ''Sirius Mystery,'' which explored extraterrestrial beginnings of the human civilization. He read National Geographic's ''Lost Kingdoms of the Maya'' and Henry Brun's ''Global Studies: Civilizations of the Past and Present,'' which is more commonly assigned to teenagers in high school.
''People treat you better when you have an education,'' Mr. Rosado said. ''I always tell my kids, 'Read, read, read.' ''
He met his wife, Olguita, after he came out of state prison in 2002 and moved to Orlando, Fla., where he found work building cabinets for a cousin's small construction business. The housing market was booming, and for four years, he said, he made money and walked the line.
But when the housing market crumbled and work dried up, Mr. Rosado started getting high again. He tried to escape to Brooklyn, where he toiled as a tile maker for two years, but the company folded as the economy sputtered. On Aug. 17 , he was caught robbing a deli near his home. ''We have cellphone, cable, house phone,'' Mr. Rosado said, ticking off bills by way of explanation. ''We have children, and we want them to eat nice, to dress up nice. I just got caught up. Did what I had to do.''
He got to Rikers a few days later and is scheduled for release on April 11.
''Block everything out, take a deep breath and pretend you're reading to them,'' Mr. Rosado mumbled to himself as he headed to the Daddy and Me recording room one Thursday morning.
Sometimes, he closed his eyes and broke from the text to address his sons. He apologized to Karabali for stumbling on Dr. Seuss's tongue-twisting rhymes. He reminded Cofresi about Timbuktu, ''home of the ancient African civilizations,'' after coming across the name in ''Hop on Pop.''
''The book is bilingual,'' he explained to little Jose about Clifford.
''You know English and Spanish, Papi, so when I talk to you in Spanish, you answer in Spanish, and when I talk to you in English, you answer in English.''
''Papi,'' he added, ''I love you. I'll see you soon.''
Soon was a week later, in that visiting room with the brightly colored chairs. Cofresi told his father about the day someone fired a gun right outside their apartment door just a minute after he and his mother had stepped inside. Sitting on his mother's lap, Jose read the English and Spanish words in the Clifford book.
On one side of the room was a bookcase full of children's stories. Karabali had raced to it almost as soon as he had arrived, grabbed one of the books and demanded, in a way that only a child can: ''Daddy, read for me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STORY TIME: Jose Rosado, 42, who completed the ''Daddy and Me'' reading program on Rikers Island, visiting with his sons at the jail. Below, Mr. Rosado recording himself reading for the boys. (MB1)
 INSIDE: Juan Camacho, 35, and his family in the Rikers visiting room. Mr. Camacho is partial to reading ''The Cat in the Hat'' for his two boys, ages 4 and 8. Below, Jose Rosado has his pick of children's books. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); HISTORY (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (73%); BURGLARY (71%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); HEROIN (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); RELIGION (64%); CHRISTMAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



697 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Safety Versus Savings in Mexico

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
WHEN Alex Trettin and his wife, Jenn, suggested to family and friends that they take a group vacation to Mexico, the reaction was mixed. About half of the group of 29 immediately signed on for the November trip to the Riviera Maya, south of Cancun, where they would visit Maya ruins, fish and lounge by the pool at an upscale resort for the bargain price of $150 a person a night. The other half hesitated, citing concern about Mexico's continuing drug war.
''My aunt stated she hoped we didn't have any issues with the drug cartels,'' said Mr. Trettin, a Mexico-travel specialist in Tacoma, Wash., who assured everyone that the beach resort they were going to near Playa del Carmen was far from the violent clashes they had seen on television. Ultimately, they all went, but the concerns that some in the group expressed are indicative of the quandary many travelers face when they consider the safety risks versus the convenience and affordability of a vacation in Mexico. 
While most of the drug-related violence has been in the northern border region of Mexico, far from the Maya temples of the Yucatan, the regional cuisine of Oaxaca or the beaches of Baja California Sur, violence has erupted in tourist destinations like Acapulco and the state of Michoacan, home to the famous monarch butterfly sanctuaries. Even Cancun's safety was questioned earlier this year after eight employees of a strip club there were killed when a group of men threw Molotov cocktails into the building in an area not frequented by tourists.
To combat the perception that violence has been widespread, tourism officials in Mexico have invested $30 million in advertising and social media initiatives to spread the word that much of the country is safe for tourists. ''Visitors have the right to be well informed,'' said Alfonso Sumano, the regional director for the Mexico Tourism Board for the Americas. Many of the affected areas, he said, ''are very far from the destinations tourists visit.''
The latest travel warning, issued by the State Department in September, urged American citizens to defer unnecessary travel specifically to Michoacan and areas along the northern border, including Tamaulipas, and parts of Chihuahua, Durango and Coahuila, where tourists generally don't go. Yet, ever cautious, it stated, ''violence has occurred throughout the country, including in areas frequented by American tourists.'' Visitors were encouraged to stay on main roads in daylight hours and to remain in well-known tourist areas.
All of this has made travel to Mexico a hard sell lately, but travel agents say the negative publicity has also made Mexico among the best values out there as resorts lower rates or add free incentives to entice travelers. When asked where agents are recommending travelers go to get the most for their dollar this year, 70 percent said Mexico, according to Travel Leaders, a major network of agents.
''A lot of clients will come here and say, 'I'll go anywhere except Mexico,' '' said Kate Rosevear, owner of a Travel Leaders agency in Plymouth, Mich. ''Quite often we'll be able to talk them back around to it based on the value.''
Some of the deals agents and tourism officials point out include Casa Ticul, a boutique hotel in Playa del Carmen, which is offering 20 percent off rates of $171 a night to travelers who book a January stay by the end of December. Villa del Palmar Cancun, a new all-inclusive resort in Playa Mujeres with a Greg Norman-designed golf course, has rates from $186 a person a night during the holidays and a rate of $142 a person a night after that -- up to 60 percent off. And St. Regis Punta Mita is offering butler service, a third night free, a $50 resort credit per room and a glass of Champagne with its Welcome to Paradise deal from $580 a night for stays starting Jan. 11.
Mexican Destinations, the Mexico Villa brand of the rental company VacationRoost, has trained its agents to educate clients who call with safety concerns about how far its villas are from reported violence, and is offering specials of 25 to 50 percent off. One deal is Casa del Sol, a four-bedroom, five-bath property on the Pacific Coast in Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo, where rates have been slashed to $750 a night, from $1,500, in early January.
The pricing strategy seems to be working. The number of international tourists arriving in Mexico by air from January to October was 8.2 million, according to the latest data from the Mexico Tourist Board. That is an increase of 17.8 percent compared with the same period last year, when Mexico endured a down economy, H1N1 scares and drug violence. Visitors are up 6.4 percent over the same period in 2008, which was considered to be one of the best years for travel to Mexico. The number of American travelers increased by 13.4 percent, compared with the same time period in 2009.
Many resorts say safety is at the top of their guests' minds. ''When our reservations manager receives requests, the first question that is asked is if there has been violence in this area,'' said Giorgio Brignone, the proprietor of Costa Careyes, a luxury resort two hours south of Puerto Vallarta, which has added free airport transfers to and from Manzanillo. To put jittery travelers at ease, the company has placed ads in magazines promoting ''a different Mexico.'' In addition, the company's Web site highlighted the 24-hour security at the resort.
Part of the problem is that many travelers are unclear about where the violence has occurred and how it might affect their vacation, Mr. Brignone said. ''People don't realize that there are many regions and areas in the country that are not affected by the violence and drug wars,'' he said. ''It's like saying I will not go to Dallas, or New York, because there are problems or riots in Los Angeles.''
Still, there are some tourist destinations travelers should steer clear of, at least for now. ''I would not encourage my family to visit Acapulco right now,'' said Josh Miller, who lives in Mexico City and is the general director for Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean for Control Risks, a risk management firm. ''While a wonderful place to visit,'' he said, ''violent confrontations have been spilling over from the military effort against the cartels.'' Travelers should also hold off on visits to Michoacan, in central Mexico. The state is a stronghold of La Familia, a drug cartel known for bold ambushes.
Popular resort areas, including Mazatlan, Puerto Vallarta, Ixtapa and Cancun's resort strip are generally safe for travelers, Mr. Miller said, particularly if visitors stay within the resort's boundaries. ''Mexico is a volatile place,'' he said. ''You have to have your itinerary planned out quite well, consider transportation and stay abreast of latest developments.''
Some travelers who have been to Mexico before are surprised when friends express safety concerns. ''Everybody was like, 'What? You are going to Mexico?' '' said Tina Youtsey, a dog groomer from Milan, Mich., who went to the Riviera Maya with her teenage daughter last month. ''Seriously,'' she said, ''the drug lords aren't hanging out at the resort.'' Having visited Mexico two times before, she added, ''I wasn't really worried.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tourists walk along the beach in front of Zazilkin, a hotel with rustic cabanas in Tulum, on the Yucatan Peninsula.Tourists walk along the beach in front of Zazilkin, a hotel with rustic cabanas in Tulum, on the Yucatan Peninsula. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESORTS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); DRUG POLICY (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); BEACHES (74%); TOURISM (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); TRAVEL AGENTS (67%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (66%); CARTELS (55%); SOCIAL MEDIA (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (56%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



698 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Thieves' Paradise

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN. 
Peter S. Goodman is the business editor of The Huffington Post and the author of ''Past Due: The End of Easy Money and the Renewal of the American Economy.''

 BODY:
GRIFTOPIA
Bubble Machines, Vampire Squids, and the Long Con That Is Breaking America
By Matt Taibbi
252 pp. Spiegel & Grau. $26.
Among the unfortunate legacies of the financial crisis of 2008 is a tendency among commentators to soft-pedal the outrage over what happened. In too many accounts, blame is considered impossible to assign given the complexities of modern-day finance. Those inclined to point fingers at Wall Street or Washington are frequently derided as innocents who do not grasp how the world really works.
The result is an apologia that goes something like this: Mistakes were made, despite the best intentions of financial professionals. Bankers lent too much money to poor people who never should have bought homes. Models used to measure risk broke down, and regulators were swamped. All of this was a shame, but accidents are a part of life, and an unavoidable part of the swashbuckling style of capitalism that has enriched Americans for generations. 
Nonsense, Matt Taibbi says. In ''Griftopia,'' a relentlessly disturbing, penetrating exploration of the root causes of the trauma that upended economic security in millions of American homes, Taibbi argues that what unfolded was far from accidental. Rather, the nation suffered the equivalent of a hostile takeover of key areas of its commercial life by investment banking houses, while regulators and members of Congress abdicated their responsibilities either because they were influenced by campaign cash or because they believed the fairy tale that unsupervised markets always work best. The result, Taibbi asserts, was a thieves' paradise -- Griftopia.
A contributing editor for Rolling Stone magazine, Taibbi is best known for the metaphor he hurled like a grenade at the Wall Street goliath Goldman Sachs, calling it ''a great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money.'' He amplifies that characterization here, pointing out that Goldman managed to collect billions of dollars in taxpayer bailout funds that were paid to American International Group (A.I.G.).
Taibbi persuasively dismisses the argument that the financial crisis was caused by poor people with a taste for real estate, delineating how Wall Street eagerly handed out mortgages to anyone with a pulse, and then used the home loans as the material for a far more lucrative enterprise -- the exotic investments known as derivatives. The derivatives market depended upon a steady supply of mortgages. But when too many of the bets went bad, Wall Street persuaded the Treasury to construct bailouts that Taibbi describes as a ''labyrinthine financial sewage system designed to stick us all with the raw waste and pump clean water back to Wall Street.''
Much of this story is familiar. The shelves are full of books describing how Wall Street turned mortgage markets into a casino. Goldman's dealings with A.I.G. have been probed in the pages of this newspaper, among others. What Taibbi brings is a broader context and his trademark snarky prose. He has written a polemic, a full-scale indictment of Wall Street and Washington, one that sometimes veers toward ranting, yet serves as a needed antidote to the more even-tempered but fatuous accounts already available.
In Taibbi's telling, contemporary finance has perverted markets that once served important functions, turning them into frontier-style betting parlors. Futures markets, for example, were created to allow farmers to hedge themselves against fluctuations in crop prices, and were traditionally regulated to prevent investors from amassing holdings large enough to manipulate prices. But over the last two decades, the federal government, at Wall Street's behest, pared down its rules, allowing speculators to dominate commodities markets. Wall Street then steered pension funds into commodities. This, Taibbi claims, was the real cause of the commodities bubble that sent oil prices soaring to ludicrous heights in the summer of 2008. And now, with many local authorities hurting for cash, Wall Street is increasingly brokering deals that turn municipal facilities like Chicago's parking meters into investment vehicles controlled by overseas governments -- deals that Taibbi presents as a taxpayer rip-off.
Some of this analysis is overheated. Taibbi portrays the sale of infrastructure to overseas buyers as nefarious on its face, without adequately explaining the supposed evils. He accepts the depiction of the Obama health care reform as ''a new law that will radically remake the faces of both the federal government and the private economy, and also ratify the worst paranoid fears of both ends of the political spectrum.'' Never mind that much of the health-care sector was already in government hands through Medicare and Medicaid. But he rightly decries the crudity of the deal through which private insurers were supplied new customers at government-protected prices.
Taibbi is a skilled and often entertaining writer. He is determined to help the reader make sense of complex issues that frequently cloak political and economic power, and he adroitly demystifies much of the jargon that lards financial writing. But he is too enamored of his own style. His prose wrestles for attention with the story itself, and his predilection for shock imagery and profanity tends to undermine the points he is trying to make. The vampire squid metaphor was deadly, yet Taibbi can't resist trying to duplicate that feat on just about every other page, as if laboring to justify his perch at the same magazine that once employed Hunter S. Thompson.
Words and phrases like ''bloviating,'' ''utterly insane'' and ''moron'' all get vigorous workouts. Taibbi refers to A.I.G.'s ''impending ratings holocaust.'' And not content to excoriate the former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan for his near-cultish reverence for unsupervised markets, Taibbi calls him a liar, adding that he ''castrated the government as a regulatory authority, then transformed himself into the Pablo Escobar of high finance, unleashing a steady river of cheap weight into the crack house that Wall Street was rapidly becoming.'' Mixed metaphors aside, this sort of hyperventilation makes Taibbi's legitimate accusations seem flimsy, as if the facts alone were not sufficient cause for consternation.
Taibbi reprints his now-famous vampire squid article as the book's final chapter (with updating), and then tacks on a tedious recounting of how other journalists unfairly attacked him. This score-settling comes off as sophomoric and trifling.
Still, Taibbi has written a necessary and engaging corrective to the noxious idea that the tragedy of recent years was an inevitable byproduct of the market system. What's more, he concludes with a grim warning.
The villains of the last crisis, he observes, are the same people now tasked with preventing the next one.''We live in an economy that is immensely complex, and we are completely at the mercy of the small group of people who understand it -- who incidentally often happen to be the same people who built these wildly complex economic systems,'' he writes. ''We have to trust these people to do the right thing, but we can't, because, well, they're scum. Which is kind of a big problem, when you think about it.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN STAUFFER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); TAKEOVERS (51%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Griftopia: Bubble Machines, Vampire Squids, and the Long Con That Is Breaking America (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



699 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CHOICE TABLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: Stockholm Cafes Put the Sweet in Swedish

BYLINE: By STEPHEN WHITLOCK

 BODY:
IN London you can enjoy scones with jam and clotted cream in a genteel tearoom; in Paris, macarons on the Champs-Elysees; in Vienna, take your pick of tortes (Dobos, Sacher or linzer?) in some gilded grand cafe. But in Stockholm?
The boom in Scandinavian crime writing has done nothing to dispel the image of the Swedes as a rather dour people whose cuisine is dominated by the infamous trio of herring, meatballs and crispbread. In reality, Swedes are among the world's most keen and discerning coffee drinkers. They also have a sweet tooth. One of the first Swedish words any new visitor learns is fika, which means a coffee break, usually enjoyed with a little cake or pastry, much like the British term elevenses but with no time restriction.
In the capital you can still find plenty of old-fashioned konditorier -- pastry stores -- but many are quite drab, and most seem to offer the same selection of cakes and breads spiced with cinnamon and cardamom. Thankfully, a wave of new places is bringing some excitement to the cafe scene. By reinventing Swedish classics or drawing inspiration from other places, they've brought fresh sophistication to the fika.
Cupcake Sthlm 
Martin Johansson saw the American cupcake boom firsthand during a two-year stint as the chef at the Swedish Embassy in Washington. In August, after returning to Sweden, he opened Cupcake Sthlm with a childhood friend, Mikael Ingeltun, who had spent the past few years as a chef aboard luxury yachts. Rather than importing an American craze, the pair say, they are championing the contribution Scandinavian immigrants made to American home cooking.
Certainly the cafe, with its white wainscoting and walls decorated with framed pressed flowers and embroideries, looks as much Midwestern as it does Swedish. Many of the cakes are emphatically American, including the Elvis (banana and pecan), the Miami Beach (toasted coconut and vanilla) and the Michelle Obama (almond, chocolate, raspberry and licorice). Others take a more Nordic approach, like a red velvet that gets its color from beets. One big difference is that the cakes are scaled for Swedish appetites; they're roughly half the size of a typical American cupcake; they also serve mini-cupcakes the size of a marshmallow.
Cupcake Sthlm, Sankt Eriksgatan 83; (46-8) 83-8083; cupcakesthlm.se. Mini-cupcakes from 14 kroner (about $2 at 6.7 kroner to the dollar); larger ones from 29 kroner ($4.30).
Per Olsson Choklad & Konditori (POCK)
The first thing you notice when you walk into Per Olsson Choklad & Konditori, also known as POCK, is the large glass case in the center of the room that displays the cakes. The idea came from a design store that Per Olsson had visited in Manhattan. ''Paris changed the way I think about pastry, but New York inspired the shop design,'' he said.
On the same trip to the States he met some Swedish friends who had successfully opened a chain of Swedish cafes in Manhattan. When he returned to Stockholm he left his job as the head baker at Tossebageriet, one of the city's most traditional bakeries, and opened his own place on a side street on Sodermalm, an island south of the city center. With its bright pink-and-white walls, POCK looks trendy, but the cakes are a mixture of old favorites (tarte Tatin and brownies) and new inventions.
''I want classic flavors but presented in a new way,'' Mr. Olsson said. ''For instance, I've turned the banana split into a mousse that's flavored with rum and lime and topped with meringue.'' POCK is open all week, but the best time to visit is the weekend, when Mr. Olsson and his two colleagues fill the display case with 8 or 10 different cakes.
Per Olsson Choklad & Konditori, Heleneborgsgatan 19; (46-8) 668-1011; pock.nu. Cakes from 22 kroner.
Saturnus
At Saturnus, a French-style cafe in the well-heeled Ostermalm neighborhood, the traditional bulle -- a bun spiced with cinnamon or cardamom and sprinkled with pearl sugar -- has been supersized. These jumbo buns can weigh up to 15 ounces, are as wide as the plate they're served on and dwarf those found anywhere else in town. They've also become the cafe's signature item, and were declared the best in the city by a national newspaper.
During a typical weekend the cafe sells around 300 of them, according to the owner, Christos Pispas, a Swede of Greek descent. ''You'd think people would share them, but they don't, and they don't leave anything behind,'' he said. ''Even a child can put one away.''
The buns were already on the menu when Mr. Pispas and his wife, Christina, took over in 2003, but since then both the buns' fame and the cafe's popularity have grown. While most of the rest of the menu borrows from France, including tea from Mariage Freres in Paris and Valrhona hot chocolate, Mr. and Mrs. Pispas get ideas from all over. A trip to London yielded inspiration for the white coffee cups decorated with a rooster motif (inspired by Bar Italia in Soho) as well as the Key lime pie recipe (from Ottolenghi in Notting Hill).
Saturnus, Eriksbergsgatan 6; (46-8) 611-7700; cafesaturnus.se. Pastries from 25 kroner. A bulle costs 45 kroner.
Riddarbageriet
Riddarbageriet, also in Ostermalm, was one of the first bakeries in Stockholm to offer sourdough bread and is known for producing some of the best loaves in the city, including Rag Arnold, a big, strong rye bread named after Arnold Schwarzenegger. The bakery was established by Camilla Fritzdorf and Johan Sorberg, who were married at the time. When they opened the cafe, he was doing baking demonstrations on television.
Inside the store are five marble-topped tables where you can have a drink with a sandwich or pastry. Behind the scenes are two kitchens: a Swede makes bread in one while a Frenchman works on the sweet things in the other. This combination of skills has yielded spectacular results. There are two small tartlets not to be missed: the mazarin, a frosted pastry filled with almond paste, and the catalan, which is similar but with a layer of raspberry. Both are traditional Swedish cakes, available at any old-fashioned bakery, but at Riddarbageriet they're a revelation. The incredibly thin pastry shatters as you bite into it, the almond paste has just the right sweetness, and the raspberry is wonderfully subtle.
Riddarbageriet, Riddargatan 15; (46-8) 660-3375. Tiny bread buns start at 5 kroner. The mazarins and catalans are 25 kroner.
Xoko
The cakes at Xoko are, quite literally, fit for a king (or a notable physicist, chemist or economist). It was founded by Magnus Johansson, who makes the desserts for the annual Nobel banquet.
A futuristic-looking place with white walls and lights that change color, Xoko serves cakes, desserts and sandwiches during the day, and after 5 p.m. it adds tapas to the menu. You can order the dessert that was served at last year's Nobel banquet: lemon and cheese mousse with sea-buckthorn sorbet.
Mr. Johansson wanted to create a new kind of Stockholm cafe and has also reworked many Swedish cakes. A traditional princess torte, for instance, is a sponge cake with layers of raspberry jam and cream wrapped in bright green marzipan. Xoko's version features raspberries that appear to be erupting out of the top of the cake.
Mr. Johansson says that cafe culture elsewhere in Europe benefits from having fewer regulations. ''In Sweden we have so many stupid rules,'' he said. ''For instance, I'd like to serve a Champagne breakfast, but we're not allowed to serve Champagne before 11 a.m.''
Xoko, Rorstrandsgatan 15; (46-8) 31-8487; xoko.se. Petit-fours from 20 kroner, tapas from 35 kroner, Nobel dessert 75 kroner.
Petite France
In 2008 the Frenchman Sebastien Boudet opened Petite France, the city's most authentic French cafe-bakery. On a quiet side street on the largely residential island of Kungsholmen, it took a year or so for word to spread about the quality of the breads and pastries (not to mention a whole spectrum of macarons). Now lines form every weekend, though canny locals know the trick is to go well before opening time.
''I don't like the Swedish way of keeping the door locked until it is exactly opening time,'' Mr. Boudet said. ''The door is unlocked when we turn up at 4 a.m. We officially open at 8 o'clock during the week, but before that we might have taxi drivers or police working overnight who come in.''
Mr. Boudet has adapted French recipes to suit Swedish tastes, using more eggs and butter when making traditional buns. He's also relaxed his attitude toward only using seasonal ingredients. ''I never used to buy raspberries in May, when it can still be snowing, but I have to because I've seen how much Swedes enjoy a raspberry tart at that time,'' he said.
The breakfast tray is particularly popular, mixing French and Scandinavian influences: yogurt topped with muesli served with a small baguette sandwich and a chouquette -- a ball of choux pastry.
Petite France, John Ericssonsgatan 6; (46-8) 618-2800; petitefrance.se. Pastries from 19 kroner, breakfast tray 90 kroner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The princess torte, center, sponge cake with layers of raspberry jam and cream, is usually wrapped in bright green marzipan, but this version at Xoko is white.
TOP: A coffee break at Xoko, which adds tapas to the menu at night. ABOVE: At Cupcake STHLM, many treats are emphatically American.
 ABOVE LEFT: Saturnus is a French-style cafe in the upscale Ostermalm neighborhood. ABOVE RIGHT: A Key lime pie, foreground, at Saturnus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB SCHOENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); COFFEE & TEA (75%); COFFEE (70%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); SWEDEN (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



700 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: A Quest To Explain What Grades Really Mean

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
It could be a Zen koan: if everybody in the class gets an A, what does an A mean?
The answer: Not what it should, says Andrew Perrin, a sociologist at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. ''An A should mean outstanding work; it should not be the default grade,'' Mr. Perrin said. ''If everyone gets an A for adequate completion of tasks, it cripples our ability to recognize exemplary scholarship.''
As part of the university's long effort to clarify what grades really mean, Mr. Perrin now leads a committee that is working with the registrar on plans to add extra information -- probably median grades, and perhaps more -- to transcripts. In addition, they expect to post further statistics providing context online and give instructors data on how their grading compares with their colleagues'.
''It's going to be modest and nowhere near enough to correct the problems,'' Mr. Perrin said. ''But it's our judgment that it's the best we can do now.'' 
With college grades creeping ever higher, a few universities have taken direct action against grade inflation. Most notably, Princeton adopted guidelines in 2004 providing that no more than 35 percent of undergraduate grades should be A's, a policy that remains controversial on campus.
Others have taken a less direct approach, leaving instructors free to award whatever grades they like but expanding their transcripts to include information giving graduate schools and employers a fuller picture of what the grades mean.
Dartmouth transcripts include median grades, along with the number of courses in which the student exceeded, equaled or came in lower than those medians. Columbia transcripts show the percentage of students in the course who earned an A.
At Reed College, transcripts are accompanied by an explanatory card. Last year's graduating class had an average G.P.A. of 3.20, it says, and only 10 percent of the class graduated with a G.P.A. of 3.67 or higher.
''We also tell them that in 26 years, only 10 students have graduated with a perfect 4.0 average -- and three of them were transfers who didn't get all those grades at Reed,'' said Nora McLaughlin, the registrar at Reed. ''We wanted to put the grades at Reed in context to be sure that graduate schools, particularly professional schools where G.P.A. is very much an important factor, understand how capable our students are.''
Especially in hard economic times, students worry that professors who are stingy with the A's will leave them at a disadvantage in graduate school admissions and employment. No wonder, then, that many students visit Web sites like RateMyProfessors.com when registering, perhaps to help them avoid tough graders.
Cornell's experience shows the impact -- and the unintended consequences -- that grading information can bring.
In 1996, Cornell's faculty adopted a ''truth in grading'' policy, and median grades were posted online starting in 1998. The policy called for median grades to be shown on transcripts as soon as student-records technology made that possible, but that did not happen until a full decade later.
And while the median grades were available only online, a study by three Cornell economists found a large increase in enrollment in courses with a median grade of A -- further driving grade inflation.
''At least when the grades were only online, the main users of the information seemed to be students shopping around for easier classes,'' said Talia Bar, one of the three economists.
Ms. Bar said there is no consensus on the right way to grade.
''I might see a course of 200 people with a median grade of A as not right, but others might see it as good,'' she said.
But at least in the realm of theory, there is widespread agreement that providing extra context on transcripts is a good thing.
''It's generally recognized that an A by itself is not very meaningful,'' said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. ''Giving statistical context to assist recipients of a transcript in understanding the grades is definitely helpful.''
But as a practical matter, it is not so easy.
''It's complicated, it's controversial, and it runs into campus political opposition from all sorts of directions you might not anticipate,'' Mr. Nassirian said, adding that transcripts with too much extra information can become unwieldy.
Studies of grade inflation have found that private universities generally give higher grades than public ones, and that humanities courses award higher grades than science and math classes.
Mr. Perrin's concern with grading standards began 15 years ago, when he was a teaching assistant at the University of California, Berkeley.
''I would grade papers, run the grades by the professor and then give them out, and long lines of students would appear outside my office to say I graded too hard,'' Mr. Perrin said. Now, at North Carolina, Mr. Perrin is convinced that grading problems are pervasive.
''Anything that uses G.P.A is unfair, because a given student can be penalized or rewarded in grading just because of the mix of professors or the strength of the schedule,'' Mr. Perrin said. ''Some instructors grade harder than others. Some courses are harder than others, and some departments are harder than others.''
The pending changes at North Carolina are the university's latest effort to improve its grading system.
Since 1967, when the average G.P.A. was 2.49, grade inflation at the university has been well-documented. In 2000, the faculty council heard a proposal to adopt a target average G.P.A. of 2.6 to 2.7, but the idea was dropped. A few years later, the faculty narrowly voted down an ambitious proposal for an adjusted G.P.A., called the ''Achievement Index,'' that would reflect not only the students' performance in their courses, but also the rigor of those courses.
At U.N.C., the average G.P.A was 3.21 in the fall of 2008, up from 2.99 in 1995. A's have become the most frequent grade, and together, A's and B's accounted for 82 percent of the 2008 grades. Last spring, the faculty called for the creation of Mr. Perrin's committee to help the registrar give context to undergraduate grades by providing statistics on what percentage of students got each letter grade, what percentage are majors in the department and what percentage are seniors, juniors, sophomores and freshmen.
''We seem to have a pretty good consensus here now,'' said Holden Thorp, the chancellor. ''What I like about this approach is that it allows faculty who have a certain philosophy of grading to stick with it, as long as they're O.K. with having it be shown. If somebody gets an A in a class with a lot of A's and that's put out there, that's good. If the chemists are willing to tell everybody that they grade harshly, that's good too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Perrin, a University of North Carolina sociologist, is working to fight grade inflation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART GOLDENBERG) (A31) DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (77%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); GRADE INFLATION (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



701 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: The Family Business

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- When the text messages pop up in Ohio State Coach Thad Matta's phone, they always bring a laugh but barely ever a response. They come from the former Ohio State guard J.J. Sullinger, who simply types, ''You're welcome.''
Sullinger deserves thanks for a recruiting tip that will long live in Ohio State lore. In 2006, he said to Matta, ''I don't want to tell you how to do your job, but you need to offer my brother a scholarship.''
Matta asked if Sullinger was talking about his middle brother, Julian, who ended up playing at Kent State. 
''No,'' Sullinger responded. ''Jared.''
Matta was baffled. ''Your big fat little brother?''
By the end of Jared Sullinger's freshman year of high school, Matta had taken J..J.'s advice.
Sullinger went on to win the Naismith Award as the country's top high school player and has emerged as perhaps the best player in the country.
Jared Sullinger's averages of 17.5 points and 10.1 rebounds are a big reason No. 2 Ohio State has emerged as a favorite to win the national title despite losing the national player of the year Evan Turner to the N.B.A. draft. Credit an impressive lineage with molding the 6-foot-9, 280-pound Sullinger's intangibles -- crafty game, selfless attitude and low-post relentlessness. They have allowed him to mesh seamlessly with four returning starters on the Buckeyes (12-0).
With a father who coaches at two speeds -- fast and faster -- and two older brothers who were accomplished college players, Jared Sullinger was raised on a diet of fundamentals and knuckle sandwiches.
''When it came to basketball, no one ever took it easy on him,'' his mother, Barbara, said.
The training began with footwork drills at age 2, as his father, Satch, threw practice post passes to his son at the foot of his bed and demanded he step with his inside foot. Satch Sullinger has coached basketball in and around Columbus since 1983 and believes so strongly in footwork that he claims to have bought a Pete Newell footwork video for $300 in 1984.
Satch laughs when people ask how Jared can be as comfortable driving to the hoop with his left hand as with his right. He chuckles because it has nothing to do with his hands.
''If you don't do your footwork, your hands are unemployed,'' said Satch, who now coaches five players with Division I offers at Northland High School.
With a preacher's inflection, philosopher's depth and bouncer's build, Satch Sullinger is one of Ohio's most enduring basketball coaches. His players can not escape his -isms, fortune cookie-like nuggets of basketball wisdom that are a big part of his coaching repertory.
None has got more mileage than, ''Play the game the way you live your life.''
From the beginning, Jared Sullinger played tough. By age 3, he could shoot a regulation free throw with a men's ball. Satch points out that it was not a granny shot. Jared grew so fast and strong that he could hold with the proper form and follow through well before kindergarten.
Barbara Sullinger, a stay-at-home mother who raised three children on Satch's teacher's salary, said she made sure that her three boys were playing ball because they loved it. No threat from Barbara prompted a clean room or swiftly completed homework like telling her boys they would not be able to go to basketball practice with their father on Saturday.
''I bought blocks, trucks, art supplies and dance lessons,'' she said, shaking her head and laughing. ''If it didn't bounce, they didn't want anything to do with it.''
At age 6, Jared Sullinger attempted to execute a flashy crossover known as a Shammgod -- named after the former Providence guard God Shammgod -- in a youth game. Julian Sullinger recalls that Jared not only tried the move, but also used his index finger to call over an opposing defender, daring him to guard him.
''My dad yelled at him the whole ride home,'' Julian Sullinger said with a laugh.
When Satch was not coaching, Julian and J..J. raised him on hard knocks. J..J. Sullinger jokes that his brother had to fight for everything from inches on the court to ''the last piece of fried chicken at dinner.''
The Sullingers grew up with an asphalt halfcourt across the street from their house, and Jared ran home crying countless times after being beaten or beaten up by his brothers. (Julian will soon become a varsity assistant for his father, and J..J. is a real estate agent in Columbus.)
''If you're going to cry, don't play,'' Satch would say. ''If you're going to play, don't cry.''
As the baby fat melted off and Jared sprouted into a low-post player, he emerged as a star. Tommy Amaker, then the coach at Michigan, gave Sullinger his first scholarship offer as an eighth grader. But Michigan had no chance.
While in junior high, Jared Sullinger would crash at his brother's apartment at Ohio State, and J..J. offered this defining advice minutes after his career ended with an upset loss to Georgetown in the N.C.A.A. tournament: ''If Coach Matta ever offers you a scholarship, take it because that's the best coach in America.''
When Matta did during Jared's freshman year, he did not take long to accept.
''I don't know if I've ever had a player that Ohio State means more to,'' Matta said. ''This university means a ton to him.''
But perhaps the most important moment of Sullinger's high school career came during his sophomore year. Satch suspended Jared for a district semifinal game against Westerville South for not completing his homework.
''The worst day of my life,'' Jared said.
When Satch caught Jared trying to put on his uniform for the game, Satch would not let him.
''If everyone fouls out,'' he told him, ''I'd rather play with four than put you in the game.''
Northland lost to Westerville South, and Jared Sullinger still feels guilty about letting the seniors on that team down. The losses sting because there are so few. Satch said his son went 98-4 during high school and 288-15 in his summer basketball career.
''He put life in perspective for me,'' Jared said. ''He said, 'We can do this locally or do it at the national level and have ESPN looking at it with Ohio State.'''
With a 3.0 grade point average at Ohio State, Jared said schoolwork is second nature to him now. His game is also drawing raves, as when Oakland Coach Greg Kampe said that Sullinger was a more offensively developed version of Charles Barkley because ''he's only really 6 foot 7.'' Western Carolina Coach Larry Hunter compared Sullinger to the Boston Celtics great Bill Russell for his attitude and effervescence.
''He's such a winner, and to think he's a freshman,'' Hunter said. ''He gives people such confidence.''
South Carolina Coach Darrin Horn said Sullinger did not have overwhelming athleticism like the former Kentucky forward DeMarcus Cousins, nor did Ohio State have the same caliber of talent that Kentucky did last season with five first-round picks. What Sullinger does is pass out of the double team, box out with vigor and avoid freshman mistakes.
''Every dude on that team knows his role and has completely bought in,'' Horn said.
Matta said that in Sullinger's first road game at Florida, he recommended a play in the huddle that resulted in a layup by the Buckeyes senior David Lighty. After a practice at Northland on Thursday, Sullinger drew up a play to help create open looks for his close friend Trey Burke, a Michigan signee.
''Not once in 70 practices or three months have I ever seen him show one ounce of selfishness,'' Matta said.
From hanging around with the former Buckeyes Greg Oden and Mike Conley Jr., Sullinger said he had learned the N.B.A. was not all fun and games. Sullinger could easily be a top-10 draft pick next year, but seems in no hurry to leave a program he has waited a lifetime to join.
Satch said he was certain there was going to be an N.B.A. lockout next season, and if there was, he did not want Jared entering the draft. But December conversations do not often meet draft-deadline realities, and Sullinger will certainly face a decision this spring.
Until then, Matta will enjoy the ride. It could last all the way to the Final Four. Perhaps by then, Matta could text J..J. Sullinger to thank him for his recruiting tip.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jared Sullinger averages 17.5 points and 10.1 rebounds for No. 2 Ohio State. Below, Jared and his parents, Satch and Barbara, with his high school Naismith Award in Atlanta. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, OHIO STATE ATHLETICS
GETTY IMAGES FOR NAISMITH AWARD) (SP1)
Jared Sullinger has earned the praise of opposing coaches for his skills and unselfish play. At left, the Sullinger family. Pictured from left to right are Jared, Julian, Barbara, Satch and J. J. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT, COURTESY OF THE SULLINGER FAMILY
 TERRY GILLIAM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (SP10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (89%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (88%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); TEXT MESSAGING (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (89%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



702 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: The Looming Crisis in the States

 BODY:
For most of this year, the state of Illinois has lacked the money to pay its bills. Some of its employees have been evicted from their offices for nonpayment of rent, social service groups have laid off hundreds of workers while waiting for checks, pharmacies have closed for lack of Medicaid payments. Faced with $4.5 billion in overdue payments, Illinois has proposed a precarious plan to sell its delinquent bills to Wall Street investors in exchange for cash, calculating that the interest it must pay the investors will be less than the late fees it owes.
It is no way to run the nation's fifth largest state, and it is not even clear that investors will agree, but these kinds of shaky deals are likely to become increasingly common as the states try to cope with the greatest fiscal drought since the Great Depression. Starved for revenue and accustomed to decades of overspending, many states have been overwhelmed. They are facing shortfalls of $140 billion next year. Even before the downturn, states jeopardized their futures by accumulating trillions in debt that they swept into some far-off future. 
But that future is not so distant, and the crushing debt has made recovery far more difficult to achieve. As The Times reported, Illinois, California and several other states are at increasing risk of being the first states to default since the 1930s. The city of Prichard, Ala., has stopped sending out its pension checks, breaking state law and shocking its employees.
A state or city unable to make its bond payments would send harmful ripples through the financial system that could cause damage even to healthier governments. But if states act quickly to deal with their revenue losses and address their debt -- and receive sufficient aid from Washington -- there is still time to avoid a crisis.
The most immediate cause of the states' problems is the decline in tax revenue caused by the downturn, just as the demand for services has increased.
Over the last two years, combined sales, personal and corporate taxes have fallen by more than 10 percent. Although revenue is likely to tick up slightly in 2011, federal stimulus money -- which has been keeping many states afloat -- is largely scheduled to expire. Renewing a portion of that aid would be one of the most effective ways to assist the economy.
Many conservatives have said the revenue decline is a good incentive for states to cut their spending. That is precisely what almost all states have done, because they are legally barred from running deficits. State spending fell by 3.8 percent in the 2009 fiscal year and 7.3 percent more in the 2010 fiscal year, the only significant declines since at least the 1970s, even as the cost of education and health care rose.
School aid, Medicaid, transportation, employee salaries, social services, courts -- whatever there was to cut, states have slashed it, often at ruinous costs to the most vulnerable: the poor, the sick and disabled, students, tens of thousands of laid-off workers.
But cutting spending will not affect the heaviest burden: the accumulated debt that comes from passing off the biggest problems to future generations. States and cities have nearly $3 trillion in outstanding bonds, and more than $3.5 trillion in shortfalls to pensions. Promised health benefits alone are more than $500 billion.
Some states have tried to pretend their pension obligations do not exist. New York is shortchanging its pension funds, and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who claims to be so financially responsible, is the latest in a line of governors who have simply refused to pay the billions the state owes to its employee pensions. (Instead, it has often spent that money on tax cuts.) Public employee unions will need to give ground on pensions and other benefits, but it will be hard to start productive discussions if Mr. Christie and other governors refuse to acknowledge their obligations and bargain in good faith.
During the last year, 23 states raised taxes and fees, but only eight increased personal income taxes. Ultimately, states are going to have to acknowledge that more effective, targeted tax increases are inevitable, and can be achieved if they are structured properly. Governors also must explain to voters that they have cut spending. The nation's richest taxpayers just got a windfall in the federal tax deal extorted from President Obama by Republican senators. States should not shy away from asking for more help from those most able to pay.
Too many newly elected governors have vowed not to raise taxes -- including, unfortunately, Andrew Cuomo of New York -- fearing giving bad news to voters who have not yet been told how dire things really are. Dan Malloy, the incoming Democratic governor of Connecticut, is one of the few who have been honest with their constituents, saying neither cuts nor tax increases alone can deal with his state's $3.5 billion shortfall, one of the largest, proportionally, in the nation. ''This is a time when people have to be on notice that they'll be requested to participate in shared sacrifice,'' he said recently.
Many governors claim tax increases are ill-advised during a recession, but more experienced economists say it is better to raise taxes on the rich than to lay off workers and cut spending, in effect offsetting Washington's attempts at stimulus. The federal government missed a chance to begin to act rationally about its long-term deficit by giving away the store to the rich in the tax deal. States should not make the same mistake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EVICTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BONDS (76%); STUDENT EXPENSES (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



703 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Ending the War to End All Wars

BYLINE: By MARGARET MacMILLAN. 
Margaret MacMillan, the warden of St. Antony's College at Oxford, is the author of ''Paris 1919'' and ''Dangerous Games: The Uses and Abuses of History.''

 BODY:
NOT many people noticed at the time, but World War I ended this year. Well, in a sense it did: on Oct. 3, Germany finally paid off the interest on bonds that had been taken out by the shaky Weimar government in an effort to pay the war reparations imposed by the Treaty of Versailles.
While the amount, less than $100 million, was trivial by today's standards, the payment brought to a close one of the most poisonous chapters of the 20th century. It also, unfortunately, brought back to life an insidious historical myth: that the reparations and other treaty measures were so odious that they made Adolf Hitler's rise and World War II inevitable.
In truth, the reparations, as the name suggests, were not intended as a punishment. They were meant to repair the damage done, mainly to Belgium and France, by the German invasion and subsequent four years of fighting. They would also help the Allies pay off huge loans they had taken to finance the war, mainly from the United States. At the Paris peace talks of 1919, President Woodrow Wilson was very clear that there should be no punitive fines on the losers, only legitimate costs. The other major statesmen in Paris, Prime Ministers David Lloyd George of Britain and Georges Clemenceau of France, reluctantly agreed, and Germany equally reluctantly signed the treaty. 
In Weimar Germany, a society deeply divided by class and politics, hatred of the ''dictated peace'' was widespread, and there was no shame in trying to escape its provisions. The final sum for reparations was not mentioned in the treaty -- itself a humiliation in German eyes -- but was eventually set in 1921 at 132 billion gold marks (about $442 billion in today's terms). The fact is that Germany could have managed to pay, but for political reasons chose not to.
The German government repeatedly challenged the amount, asked for moratoriums or simply stated that it could not pay. In 1924 and again in 1929, the total sum owed was negotiated down. In 1933, when the Nazis took power, Hitler simply canceled reparations unilaterally. In the end, it has been calculated, Germany paid less in real terms than France did after the Franco-Prussian war of 1870 to '71 (and France paid off those obligations in just a few years).
Yet this mattered little to the Germans, for whom it was all too easy to attribute every problem to reparations, and by extension to the Weimar government. Hitler did not attain power because of reparations -- the Great Depression and the folly of the German ruling classes did that -- but their existence gave him a political cudgel against Weimar. The wrangling over reparations also helped turn the German people against co-operation with the international system.
Equally important, the issue helped drive a wedge between France and Britain at a time when the liberal democracies needed to stand together. Many in the English-speaking world came to agree with the Germans that the Treaty of Versailles, and the reparations in particular, were unjust, and that Lloyd George had capitulated to the vengeful French. That sense of guilt played a role in the efforts by successive British governments to appease Hitler in the 1930s.
In this atmosphere, many if not most Germans came to believe that World War I was a sort of natural catastrophe, with no human authors. The arms race, nationalism, imperialism, fear, hatred: all were seen in retrospect as impersonal forces that had simply swept Europeans along in 1914. The German Foreign Ministry in the 1920s even had a propaganda unit that took every opportunity to encourage attacks on the treaty and, by selectively releasing documents, to suggest that Germany bore no more responsibility for the war than any other nation. All were guilty or none were.
Research since 1945, by German historians among others, has produced a more complicated picture, that of a reckless Austria-Hungary determined to crush Serbia and of Germany providing a blank check for its allies in Vienna. German military planners, if they did not welcome war, by 1914 were increasingly inclined to expect it. Their nightmare was a rapidly industrializing Russia. Rather like the Japanese in 1941 who decided to attack the United States, the Germans thought it would be better to have the inevitable conflict sooner rather than later, while they could still take the offensive.
In a remarkably short time after 1918, many Germans also came to think that they had not really lost the war. Its armies during the war had inflicted stunning defeats on Germany's foes, especially in the east, and little of German soil had been occupied by Allied troops either during the war or in defeat. The military elite mounted a successful campaign in the 1920s to attribute the final German collapse to a ''stab in the back'' by enemies at home, particularly socialists, liberals and Jews.
This perception was absurd: Germany's armies lost badly on the battlefields in the summer of 1918; its people were on the brink of starvation because of the British naval blockade; its Austrian, Turkish and Bulgarian allies had crumbled; and its military had begged the government to make peace before it was too late. The armistice signed on Nov. 11 was clearly a surrender; Germany gave up its Navy and its submarines and its heavy field equipment, from tanks to artillery. But as things went from bad to worse such facts were easily distorted or ignored, especially in the late 1920s as Weimar faltered and Hitler rose.
This is not to say that the reparations were a good idea. They were economically unsound and a political mistake with serious consequences. John Maynard Keynes, a member of the British delegation in Paris, rightly argued that the Allies should have forgotten about reparations altogether. (It would have helped if America had written off the war loans it had made to Britain and France, but it was not prepared to do that.)
Still, one has to consider the political atmosphere in 1919. No French or Belgian politician could have openly agreed with Keynes; and even if Lloyd George had wanted to, he had to placate the hard-line Tories in his coalition government. The north of France and virtually the whole of Belgium had been occupied for four years by German soldiers who had driven off livestock, plundered factories and mines, and taken citizens to Germany for forced labor. The areas along the front lines, on the French-Belgian border, were wastelands. And we now have compelling evidence that German forces deliberately carried out a scorched-earth policy; they flooded mines, blew up bridges and stripped bare factories as they retreated.
As one French newspaper asked in 1919, why should the French taxpayer pay to fix the damage the invaders had done? The French remembered too, if nobody else did, that it was the Germans who had declared war on France in 1914, not the other way round.
Ending wars is not easy, and before we condemn the whole idea of reparations as misguided and dangerous, we should think about more recent penalties for aggression. Iraq, for example, is still paying reparations to Kuwait for Saddam Hussein's invasion of 1990.
More significantly, Germany was obliged to pay reparations after 1945, and in that case there was no negotiation at all: Germany was utterly defeated and the Allies simply helped themselves. The Soviet Union in particular extracted whatever it could and in the most brutal fashion. There was little outcry in Germany because of the total extent of the defeat and, equally important, it was impossible for Germans to argue that they were being unfairly blamed for the war.
It's worth noting that less than a decade after the fall of the Nazis, the lingering legacy of the World War I reparations was settled quickly and with a minimum of fuss. A conference in London in 1953 produced the agreement whose terms were fulfilled in October. West Germany agreed to pay the interest on its interwar bonds and make compensation to claimants like those who were forced into labor -- but only when it was reunited with East Germany. The agreement is often held up as a model to economically troubled countries for how to settle outstanding debts.
Perhaps Greece and Ireland and their debtors should be taking a look at it. And perhaps we should not be so quick to condemn the decisions of the past, but recognize that sometimes there are problems for which there are no easy solutions. In my view Germany could and should have made reparations for its aggression in World War I -- but was the risk of renewed war worth forcing it to do so?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR I (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); POLITICS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (87%) GERMANY (96%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



704 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: The Big (Military) Taboo

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
We face wrenching budget cutting in the years ahead, but there's one huge area of government spending that Democrats and Republicans alike have so far treated as sacrosanct.
It's the military/security world, and it's time to bust that taboo. A few facts:
The United States spends nearly as much on military power as every other country in the world combined, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. It says that we spend more than six times as much as the country with the next highest budget, China. 
The United States maintains troops at more than 560 bases and other sites abroad, many of them a legacy of a world war that ended 65 years ago. Do we fear that if we pull our bases from Germany, Russia might invade?
The intelligence community is so vast that more people have ''top secret'' clearance than live in Washington, D.C.
The U.S. will spend more on the war in Afghanistan this year, adjusting for inflation, than we spent on the Revolutionary War, the War of 1812, the Mexican-American War, the Civil War and the Spanish-American War combined.
This is the one area where elections scarcely matter. President Obama, a Democrat who symbolized new directions, requested about 6 percent more for the military this year than at the peak of the Bush administration.
''Republicans think banging the war drums wins them votes, and Democrats think if they don't chime in, they'll lose votes,'' said Andrew Bacevich, an ex-military officer who now is a historian at Boston University. He is author of a thoughtful recent book, ''Washington Rules: America's Path to Permanent War.''
The costs of excessive reliance on military force are not just financial, of course, as Professor Bacevich knows well. His son, Andrew Jr., an Army first lieutenant, was killed in Iraq in 2007.
Let me be clear: I'm a believer in a robust military, which is essential for backing up diplomacy. But the implication is that we need a balanced tool chest of diplomatic and military tools alike. Instead, we have a billionaire military and a pauper diplomacy. The U.S. military now has more people in its marching bands than the State Department has in its foreign service -- and that's preposterous.
What's more, if you're carrying an armload of hammers, every problem looks like a nail. The truth is that military power often isn't very effective at solving modern problems, like a nuclear North Korea or an Iran that is on the nuclear path. Indeed, in an age of nationalism, our military force is often counterproductive.
After the first gulf war, the United States retained bases in Saudi Arabia on the assumption that they would enhance American security. Instead, they appear to have provoked fundamentalists like Osama bin Laden into attacking the U.S. In other words, hugely expensive bases undermined American security (and we later closed them anyway). Wouldn't our money have been better spent helping American kids get a college education?
Paradoxically, it's often people with experience in the military who lead the way in warning against overinvestment in arms. It was President Dwight Eisenhower who gave the strongest warning: ''Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired signifies, in the final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed.'' And in the Obama administration, it is Defense Secretary Robert Gates who has argued that military spending on things large and small can and should expect closer, harsher scrutiny; it is Secretary Gates who has argued most eloquently for more investment in diplomacy and development aid.
American troops in Afghanistan are among the strongest advocates of investing more in schools there because they see firsthand that education fights extremism far more effectively than bombs. And here's the trade-off: For the cost of one American soldier in Afghanistan for one year, you could build about 20 schools.
There are a few signs of hope in the air. The Simpson-Bowles deficit commission proposes cutting money for armaments, along with other spending. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton unveiled a signature project, the quadrennial diplomacy and development review, which calls for more emphasis on aid and diplomacy in foreign policy.
''Leading through civilian power saves lives and money,'' Mrs. Clinton noted, and she's exactly right. The review is a great document, but we'll see if it can be implemented -- especially because House Republicans are proposing cuts in the State Department budget.
They should remind themselves that in the 21st century, our government can protect its citizens in many ways: financing research against disease, providing early childhood programs that reduce crime later, boosting support for community colleges, investing in diplomacy that prevents costly wars.
As we cut budgets, let's remember that these steps would, on balance, do far more for the security of Americans than a military base in Germany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); HISTORY (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); WRITERS (63%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STOCKHOLM INTERNATIONAL PEACE RESEARCH INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



705 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 CHEVROLET VOLT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: Loaded With Baggage And Planning to Go Far

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
DETROIT
THE Chevrolet Volt was born with a long to-do list. Resuscitate General Motors and defy critics of the company's federal bailout. Demonstrate that G.M. can match Toyota's green might. Prove that plug-in cars are more than a feel-good exercise.
All told, the Volt was weighed down with so much political and social baggage that I was surprised it could pull away from the curb.
So for me, it felt great to finally jump into the Chevy, ditch the debates and just drive. And you know what? G.M. has nailed it, creating a hatchback that feels peppy and mainstream yet can sip less fuel than any gas- or diesel-powered car sold in America. 
The Volt leaves you grinning with its driving-the-future vibe. Yet the car operates so seamlessly that owners need not think about the planetary gear sets, the liquid-cooled electrons and all that digital magic taking place below.
Just don't forget to unplug it when you back out of the garage.
And plugging it in is what you'll want to do, as the Volt was designed with an operating strategy entirely different from other hybrids. It is meant to be driven primarily on the energy stored in its battery; the gasoline engine's contribution to moving the car is largely indirect, by turning a generator that powers the electric motors once the battery has been depleted.
The Volt, which shares its basic structure with the Chevy Cruze, can readily achieve the top end of G.M.'s estimate for all-electric range: driving gently, I managed 50 miles on a full charge. The next morning, unplugging after a four-hour refill from a 240-volt charging dock, I drove like a normal commuter, covering 41 miles to the Detroit Hamtramck plant where the Volt is built.
Once its central display screen registered the last mile of battery power, the Chevy switched into ''extended range'' mode, divvying motive chores among the remarkably quiet 1.4-liter gas engine upfront, its dual electric motors and the 435-pound, 16 kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery nestled below the floor.
Having delivered the energy-use equivalent of about 112 miles per gallon in battery mode, the Volt continued to have admirable economy with the gas-driven generator supplying the electricity: 44 m.p.g. over all, whipping the E.P.A.'s estimate of 35 city and 40 highway. With its 9.3-gallon gas capacity -- premium fuel required -- you can exceed 300 miles per tank, in addition to the initial E.V. miles. That's the crux of how the Volt maintains everyday practicality while affording owners all-electric motoring on short local trips.
After logging 120 miles (60 electric and 60 in gas-electric mode) the Volt returned the no-fudging equivalent of 64 miles per gallon. That average accounts for the 18 kilowatt-hours of plug-in electricity the Volt consumed -- just over a half-gallon's worth of gasoline using the conversion of about 33 kilowatt-hours of energy per gallon.
Unfortunately, if owners want that accurate accounting of combined mileage, including electricity, they'll have to do it online through the free five-year OnStar account that comes with the car. That's because the Volt's trip computer simply measures the gas you use over the total trip mileage, including the initial E.V. miles. Essentially, the computer pretends that the electricity is free and its miles are on the house.
So while the Volt accurately displayed my gasoline economy in extended-range mode (a healthy 44 m.p.g.) it also showed a too-optimistic 84 m.p.g. total after 120 miles because I had burned only 1.4 gallons of gasoline. But count those kilowatts in the battery, and the real average was 64 m.p.g. (The E.P.A. estimates the Volt's combined gas-electric economy at 60 m.p.g., and its all-electric operation at the energy equivalent of 93 m.p.g.)
The Volt's vehicle line director, Tony Posawatz, said that G.M. tried to provide useful interactive mileage data, but not so much that readouts would confuse drivers. Software updates may let owners choose more data-rich displays, including cost-per-mile or the so-called m.p.g.e., which converts electrical consumption into its gasoline equivalent.
Still, give the Volt's engineers their due: 64 m.p.g. is pretty spectacular. That's a real-world result, and it's nearly 30 percent better mileage than a Toyota Prius, previously the nation's highest-mileage hybrid.
Remember, I managed 64 m.p.g. on a 50-50 split of gas and electric driving. Most owners, I think, will do better, determined to drive most of their miles on battery power.
Early adopters with the means and mind-set to buy a Volt -- $41,000 on the window sticker, but $33,500 after subtracting the $7,500 federal tax credit, or $350 a month on G.M.'s sweetheart lease -- will plug in faithfully, rarely sullying their Volts with a fuel nozzle.
Yes, the mileage calculations can be baffling. Then, G.M. marketers muddied the water by promoting the Volt as a ''purely electric'' car, never mind that once its battery is depleted the gas engine will start in order to keep the car moving.
To me, G.M. should shout from the rooftops that the Volt is really a plug-in hybrid; its ability to drive like an electric car when you want it, but coast-to-coast on gasoline should you need, is its huge advantage over short-range, cord-bound E.V.'s like the Nissan Leaf.
As Chevy reminds us incessantly, a Volt owner can travel 40 miles each day and never burn a drop, joule or calorie of gasoline (more, obviously, if you can plug in while at the office or shopping mall). That owner will cover those first 40 miles for about $1.50 worth of electricity on average, a figure that includes electrical losses as the Volt draws some 12.5 kilowatt-hours of juice to refill the battery. The Volt only uses about 65 percent of its battery capacity, one of several strategies aimed at ensuring long battery life. While the batteries are warranted for eight years or 100,000 miles, G.M. says it engineered them to last 150,000 miles.
Covering those same 40 miles would cost $4.80 in gasoline for a typical 25-m.p.g. car, or $2.40 for the Prius driver who managed 50 m.p.g.
Those figures are based on a national average of 12 cents per kilowatt-hour, according to the Energy Department, but electric rates vary wildly by location. Charge your Volt in Connecticut, with its nearly 19-cent average rate, and the Volt's running costs fall close to those of a Prius or Honda Civic Hybrid, raising skepticism over the Volt's considerably higher price.
But please, enough with stories that cherry-pick statistics, comparing worst-case Volts against Priuses running downhill on the nation's cheapest gas. So try this: In California, which endures some of the nation's highest electric bills, Pacific Gas & Electric plans to charge as little as 5 cents a kilowatt-hour for nighttime E.V. charging. At that rate, you'd spend 60 cents to cover 40 miles in the Chevy. For a Prius to commute on such pocket change, gasoline would have to cost 75 cents a gallon.
If only the styling gave owners more bragging rights. There are two ways to look at the Volt: first, that its middle-America normalness is exactly the point. Or, that Chevy missed an opportunity to brand the Volt with a truly eye-catching design. At least it avoids the green-goblin frumpiness of the Leaf.
Call the Volt quietly handsome, with a pleasingly sporty stance and uncluttered visage -- aside from the unfortunate black plastic that underlines the side windows.
There's a tad more gee-whiz inside. It begins with an iPod-like center stack and dual 7-inch information screens. A navigation system is standard, and there are clever smartphone and OnStar applications to remotely manage charging and check the charge level; owners can also cool or heat the car remotely, using grid electricity rather than draining the battery.
The flush-mounted touch-panel controls look all Logan's Run, though they sometimes balk at an initial fingertap before responding. Even so, the Volt's vivid displays -- including a little green ball that hovers inside an animated circle -- offer welcome feedback on how efficiently you're driving.
Because the 5.5-foot-long T-shaped battery runs between the seats, there's no room for a fifth passenger. Legroom is tight in back. The hatch is also a bit smaller than a typical compact's, though folding the rear seats vastly expands the space.
While the Volt's cabin is comfortable and whimsically futuristic, materials and fit-and-finish are more akin to its sibling, the Cruze-- certainly not the luxury you'd demand in any other car at this price. But that's a necessary trade-off, considering that each lithium-ion pack costs G.M. an estimated $10,000. You can practically feel that battery sucking money from the interior.
The Volt's payback is its sophisticated operation. It is not sporty per se, nor is it a limp noodle. The Chevy drives like an especially quiet and trusty family car.
The regenerative brakes feel grabby and nonlinear at first, but you soon get used to braking early and lightly to recapture as much electricity as possible. Drivers can switch the console shift lever into a Low mode that bolsters the energy-scavenging of the brakes. Though special Goodyear tires trade some grip for low-rolling resistance and fuel economy, drivers may be surprised at how confidently the Volt will corner.
The oddest part of driving the Volt? At times, the engine revs don't rise in sync with a push on the gas pedal, as they would in a conventional car, because the Volt may be drawing power from its battery instead. Then, a few seconds later, the engine speeds up to replenish the battery's buffer.
Certainly, you could buy a conventional Chevy Cruze for $20,000, get respectable mileage and save thousands. But the Volt isn't for people looking for the lowest possible price or operating costs -- it is designed for those willing to spend extra for new technology that can wean them off gas and cut pollution.
In other words, the Volt is a car that will make fans feel good about driving and about themselves. If that's not your cup of green tea, don't buy it. But if the Volt appeals to you, my hunch is that you're going to love it more than any car you've driven in years.
The achievement can't be overstated. Poised to sell in the tens of thousands, the Volt (and Leaf) are the first cars in a century to make Big Oil sweat, if only a little. More will follow. And in a first for G.M., it's an economical car that Americans will buy for its cachet, not a cut-rate payment.
INSIDE TRACK: Plug and play.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FORWARD THINKING: Details of the Volt look futuristic. Clockwise from top left, main power switch
dashboard display
charge port
lightning-bolt logo. (AU1)
 PURITY: The Volt's pristine dashboard design seems to have been heavily influenced by trends in personal electronics. (AU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (78%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



706 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: The Charity Incentive

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Richard H. Thaler makes a reasonable point regarding the fiscal wisdom of allowing charitable deductions (''It's Time to Rethink the Charity Deduction'' (Economic View, Dec. 19), but does not address the social roots of this longstanding tax policy. 
The social compact between the American people and their government leaves much of the social safety net in the hands of its citizens, to be deployed through volunteerism, nonprofit organizations and philanthropy. The United States is an outlier among developed countries in this regard, where the norm is for government to monopolize this role.
As a result, most developed countries lack the civic participation and social engagement that a great many Americans see as their natural responsibility. Historically, Washington supports the social safety net indirectly through the tax code, leaving the hands-on work to the people. For better or worse, Americans seem to prefer it this way.
Peter M. Clark
Hanover, N.H., Dec. 19
To the Editor:
Hooray for the idea of rethinking the charitable deduction. Most appropriately, you've raised the issue of fairness -- and the system's current unfairness is even greater when a donation is made in appreciated assets. Such a donation is given special treatment: it's deducted from ordinary income at appreciated value, with no capital gains tax paid.
Another fairness issue arises here, too. The article takes as a given that the government has ''decided that charitable giving is a worthy cause.'' But what of donations to causes that directly or indirectly benefit the donors? Do those donations ''promote the general welfare?''
Donald T. Elliott
San Mateo, Calif., Dec. 20
To the Editor:
While I take Richard H. Thaler's point concerning the charity deduction, why characterize it as a ''subsidy''?
First, if the law is being administered as intended -- which, granted, might be an issue -- it is neither a subsidy from which one accrues direct material benefit nor it is a subsidy that offsets any required expenditure.
Second, some of the activities supported by charitable contributions are also activities that the government, and therefore our taxes, might themselves support -- and sometimes do. That is, the effect of the deduction is to allow some individual choice as to what receives public support, rather than having this decided entirely by Congress.
Because charitable contributions therefore serve one of the same purposes as taxation, is it so unreasonable to deduct them, as we deduct other taxes?
Paul Hilfinger
Berkeley, Calif., Dec. 19
The writer is an associate professor of electrical engineering and computer sciences at the University of California
Sunday Business welcomes letters from readers. Letters must include the writer's name, address and telephone number and may be sent to Letters, Sunday Business, The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018-1405, or by e-mail to sunbiz@nytimes .com. Letters selected for publication may be abridged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CHARITIES LAW (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ENGINEERING (60%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



707 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: For Bay Area Economy in 2011, Some Glimmers Amid the Gloom

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
Jonathan Weber is the editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Jonathan Weber writes a regular column for The Bay Citizen.
Despite the season, it's hard to be jolly about what lies ahead for the Bay Area economy. The recovery should continue next year, but slowly, and the list of fiscal woes remains long.
But before I get to detailing the big economic challenges of 2011, it's worth enumerating reasons to feel good about what the new year might hold. 
SILICON VALLEY IS PERKING UP In social media and mobile computing, the cognoscenti are debating whether the current frenzy is a boom or a bubble. Either way, it's starting to make a dent in unemployment as companies like Google and Facebook hire every smart person they can. Traditional computer and communications equipment firms are seeing an upturn, too, which bodes well for the Valley's ability to lead the state out of recession.
WE'RE INVESTING IN INFRASTRUCTUREPresident Obama says this is a good time to spend money on roads, rails and other public works -- and locally, it's happening. The Bay Bridge, the Transbay Transit Center, Doyle Drive, the Caldecott Tunnel, Treasure Island and the Oakland Airport BART connector are just a few of the big projects under way. Questions remain about the wisdom of some of these investments, but they're creating jobs, and 20 years from now, no one will remember the controversies.
THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM IS RECOVERING Nobody likes to celebrate the good fortune of bankers, but as a leading money center, the Bay Area has definitely benefited from the bailout of institutions like Wells Fargo and Bank of America. One of these days, they'll even start lending again.
THE CONSUMER IS COMING BACK The recent rebound in spending is not just a Bay Area phenomenon, but local retailers are sure relieved to see it. The renewed enthusiasm for shopping is also mirrored in the tourism business: It has been a solid visitor season in San Francisco, and next year should be strong as well.
IT'S RAINING A season or two of deluge is hardly a fix for the state's water issues, and as many Southern Californians would testify today, there can be too much of a good thing. But last year's wet weather, combined with the epic precipitation so far this year, will provide a big short-term boost for farmers, fishermen and outdoor businesses.
O.K. Now for the bad news:
THE HOUSING MARKET IS DEAD, DEAD, DEAD Real estate has long been a huge driver of the California economy, but all signs suggest that a housing recovery is still years off. San Francisco and other highly attractive locales will bump along the bottom just fine, but those tract homes in Antioch are not going to be worth any more next year or the year after than they are today. With luck, they won't be worth less.
THE GREEN ENERGY GLOW IS DIMMING Washington's failure to pass cap-and-trade legislation or otherwise regulate carbon emissions threatens a key pillar of the green energy business. Competition from China in solar power threatens another. California has kept the environmental faith -- voters decisively rebuffed a proposed repeal of our own version of cap-and-trade this fall -- but entrepreneurs need a national market to prosper.
THE GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL CRISIS IS REAL Pension liabilities are an abstraction for most people, but not for bond traders. Recent activity in the municipal bond market suggests that defaults by city, county and even state governments are no longer considered out of the question; that will make it harder for government entities to finance themselves. But with politicians unwilling to take unpalatable actions, like raising taxes or abrogating labor agreements, the situation will only get worse.
MORE CUTS IN VITAL SERVICES ARE COMING With California governments broke, schools are going to pay the price. Big cuts in financing -- on top of those that have already made California a proud 46th among states in per-student K-12 spending -- are a near-certainty next year. Higher education and Medi-Cal will undoubtedly take big whacks, too. And if you can put off that visit to the Department of Motor Vehicles until 2015 or so, you should.
THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION WON'T HAPPEN IN 2011 People who think big about the future of California agree that fundamental political change is a key starting point. Alas, that's not going to happen next year -- unless Gov.-elect Jerry Brown has a big surprise in store.
And that might count as a holiday wish directed to our public officials: Surprise us! The status quo, after all, isn't all that cheery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); MOBILE MEDIA (70%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); RETAILERS (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); GOOGLE INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



708 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye to Rock Bottom?

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
MORTGAGE rates in 2010 were the lowest in six decades, but a recent and sustained increase may indicate that consumers can expect to pay more in the new year to buy or refinance a home.
After hitting rock bottom in mid-November, fixed rates for 30-year mortgages, the most common type of home loan, have steadily risen.
With this year's historically low rates, ''there is a good chance that we have peaked, give or take a few basis points,'' said HSH Associates, an independent publisher of mortgage and consumer loan information, in its most recent trends forecast. (One basis point is 0.01 percent.) According to Christopher J. Mayer, a senior vice dean and a professor of real estate, finance and economics at the Columbia University Business School, ''The window of low rates could have left us.'' 
By Dec. 16, rates for a 30-year fixed loan rose for the fifth consecutive week, to 4.83 percent, up from 4.17 percent on Nov. 11, according to Freddie Mac, the government-controlled buyer of loans. Rates in the Northeast, which are often a tenth of a point or more above the national level, were on average the same as those across the nation. But by Thursday they had nudged downward, to 4.81 percent.
Mortgage rates typically track those of 10-year and 30-year Treasury and other government bonds. Yields, or interest rates, on those notes have been rising amid lender concerns that the White House's deal with Congress on Dec. 7. to extend the Bush-era tax cuts and the Federal Reserve's move in early November to buy back $600 billion in debt to stimulate economic growth will combine to fuel inflation and swell the budget deficit.
The 4.17 rate last month was the lowest since Freddie Mac began tracking rates in 1971 -- as well as the lowest since World War II, according to Weiss Research, a financial analysis and publishing firm in Jupiter, Fla. The high point last year was 5.21 percent, in April.
So if you took out a 30-year fixed note for $400,000 at the recent 4.83 percent, you are paying $93 less per month than you would have in April -- but nearly $157 more than you would have at the 4.17 percent benchmark.
Refinancing or buying a home is still more affordable, compared with the rates of 6 percent to 8 percent over most of this decade. (A table of historical rates is at http://www.freddiemac.com/pmms/pmms30.htm)
The Mortgage Bankers' Association, a trade group, predicts that 30-year fixed rates will inch up to 5.1 percent by the end of 2011 and reach 5.7 percent in 2012. In a slightly more optimistic prognosis for homeowners or buyers, Frank E. Nothaft, the chief economist of Freddie Mac, wrote in an annual trend forecast on Dec. 6. that ''while some rise in fixed-rates is expected, 30-year fixed-rate loans are likely to remain below 5 percent'' throughout 2011.
Apart from rates, other factors may make it harder to buy or refinance a property in the coming year. Lenders of all stripes have significantly tightened their requirements and made it tougher than ever to qualify for a loan. And the real estate market is still depressed -- only half of 109 housing economists polled in October by MacroMarkets, a financial technology company in Madison, N.J., expect housing prices to begin rising next year.
This year has been a boom time for refinancings -- four out of every five single-family loan applications in 2010 was for a refinancing, according to Freddie Mac -- and there is more demand yet to come from homeowners next year, Professor Mayer said.
If rates appear headed to rise later in 2011, it may be partly because of jitters about the effects on unemployment on the economy, said John Walsh, the president of Total Mortgage Services in Milford, Conn. Mr. Walsh said he thought the recent increase in rates was temporary. ''We may come back down in the next 60 days or so,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); TRENDS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLISHING (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); TAX LAW (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



709 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: Mina Guiahi and Jesse Levinson

BYLINE: By AMY SOHN

 BODY:
FOR MANY COUPLES, the season between Christmas and Valentine's Day is fraught with drama, because holidays have a way of bringing underlying tensions to the surface.
And so it was with Mina Guiahi and Jesse Levinson. During the 2007-8 holiday season, Mr. Levinson, a foreign service officer then working at the United States Mission to the United Nations, had been mulling the personal implications of his next assignment: a year in Iraq, without her.
On Valentine's Day 2008, while other couples nuzzled at the NoHo hot spot Bond Street, Mr. Levinson and Ms. Guiahi (pronounced gee-AH-hee) quarreled about the risks his trip presented. Mr. Levinson, who wanted to go but did not want to lose Ms. Guiahi, asked if she would stay committed to him while he was gone.
She said yes. 
''I realized I really cared about him,'' said Ms. Guiahi, 31, a portfolio manager at Millennium Management in New York. ''I felt like I could lose someone that I loved, and I'd never had that feeling before.''
Mr. Levinson, 32, had long known an assignment in Iraq was a possibility, primarily because there were ''all of three dudes that speak Arabic in the State Department,'' he said, joking.
And, Ms. Guiahi added: ''When he commits, he commits. He won't even cancel on dinner.''
The pragmatic Ms. Guiahi, who is fond of beginning sentences with the word ''yo,'' accepted their fate.
''Regardless of how hard it was on her, she sucked it up,'' said Poopak Banky, a friend of Ms. Guiahi's. ''They're very nurturing and encouraging of each other's dreams and goals.''
The couple had been introduced in July 2006 at the Seattle wedding of mutual friends. At the reception, the talkative and twinkle-eyed Mr. Levinson, who had worked in the West Bank and Pakistan, asked Ms. Guiahi, who was born in Iran and came to the United States as a baby, if she spoke Farsi. ''I speak some,'' she told him, taken aback that this question had come from a man who seemed to have no connection to Persian culture.
Later they went outside and kissed in the parking lot. When they returned, Ms. Guiahi recalled, a friend said, ''We've all just grabbed a cocktail and watched you two make out.''
Mr. Levinson was about to begin his diplomatic posting in New York and would be living on the Upper East Side, not far from Ms. Guiahi. On their first date they discovered a mutual love of running and soon began to train together in Central Park. Ms. Guiahi said they dated in a way that was ''a step above casual but below serious.''
By May 2007, however, they had decided that their careers made a relationship too difficult, and they broke up.
Even so, that summer they regularly bumped into each other in the park, whereupon he would ask her out, and she would turn him down. But when he asked to go running, Ms. Guiahi agreed. For the rest of the summer they ran together nearly every week. ''It was a way to spend time together without dating,'' he said. ''That was really when we started talking and becoming intimate.''
One night that August, Ms. Guiahi consented to a dinner date in the Alphabet City neighborhood of the Lower East Side, and afterward they went to Underbar at the W Hotel in Union Square, where they discussed their relationship and kissed.
''It was one of those 'wow' kisses,'' Ms. Guiahi said. She asked him to come back to her apartment to continue their discussion.
On Park Avenue, near Ms. Guiahi's apartment, they noticed a man trying to change a flat tire. The couple tried to help, but the wheel's bolts were stripped. Ms. Guiahi gave the man a number for a towing company and several hundred dollars.
''That moment crystallized for me the way she is instinctively generous to people, and kind,'' Mr. Levinson said. ''That was when we became a couple again.'' At her apartment, he told her he loved her for the first time.
Julie Ingersoll, a friend of Ms. Guiahi's, noticed a change. ''When you meet the person you're supposed to spend your life with, a certain anxiety is eliminated,'' Ms. Ingersoll said.
Maryam Guiahi, Mina's twin sister, also noticed: ''We would be in the middle of a conversation, and he wouldn't stop kissing her on the cheek. Here was my sister getting all these kisses, and she wasn't grossed out by it.''
In September, Mr. Levinson won over Ms. Guiahi's parents, Fatemeh Etemad Moghadam and Farrokh Guiahi, on a visit to their home in Huntington, N.Y., on Long Island. Worldly and secular college professors who came to the United States after the start of the 1979 revolution in Iran, they did not care whether or not she married an Iranian, but they did want her partner to be educated.
Mr. Levinson impressed them with his love of foreign policy. ''My dad doesn't watch 'Monday Night Football,' '' Ms. Guiahi said. ''When my parents sit down to talk, it's about current events.''
''All the things that I like about Persian culture,'' she added, ''are who Jesse is: affectionate, into his family and very generous.''
For his part, Mr. Levinson said, ''I don't think people with backgrounds as different as ours could have gotten together in many places, and New York is one of them.''
And then he was gone. While he worked with a provincial reconstruction team in Iraq, Ms. Guiahi dealt with a different kind of risk: co-managing her first portfolio at Diamondback Advisors as the financial markets crashed.
For the next year, they sent instant messages or talked via Skype a few times a week. ''He was still being flirty and making me laugh,'' Ms. Guiahi said. ''I thought, 'How does this guy always keep my attention even when he's in Iraq?' ''
She periodically dined with his mother, Gail M. Donovan, of New York, and provided her with updates. ''We started getting more and more information about Jesse from Mina,'' said Mr. Levinson's older brother, Andrew Levinson. ''That was when I realized that their relationship had evolved.''
The couple would meet in Istanbul and Paris for romantic getaways. In Paris, they celebrated his 30th birthday at a rooftop restaurant, looking out at the city, where as a baby she had briefly lived while her parents were trying to get United States visas.
By July 2009, Mr. Levinson had returned to New York, but within days he went off to the Harvard Kennedy School of Government in Massachusetts, creating a more quotidian long-distance arrangement. (He is now an adviser with the State Department in Washington on Palestinian economic affairs.)
This second year of separation would bring their relationship into sharper focus. ''When they lived in one another's backyards, they weren't quite sure where it was going,'' said Mr. Levinson's sister-in-law Stephanie Avila. ''And when they had miles separating them, they figured it out.''
Friends began noticing how these two ambitious souls -- who had to support each other through serious trials at an age when many couples' biggest argument is about capping the toothpaste tube -- began growing together. Ms. Guiahi, who had been a tomboy, began learning how to cook, and how to enjoy it, from Mr. Levinson. She also got her ears pierced so he could buy her earrings.
Juan Gabarro, who knows Mr. Levinson well, said his friend can be ''a bit mercurial,'' and recalled the ''settling effect'' of Ms. Guiahi's influence.
And Carey Piraino, a friend of Ms. Guiahi's said: ''They've fought for their relationship a little bit already. Some people would say love is supposed to be easy. They know it's not. Sometimes you have to claw through.''
On March 19, 2010, just before Nowruz, the Persian New Year, Mr. Levinson proposed in Central Park. They had gone for a run and afterward he asked if she wanted to talk.
''We never do that after a run,'' Ms. Guiahi said. ''Normally we walk home.''
Behind the Metropolitan Museum's Temple of Dendur, he pulled a ring out of his running shorts and got down on one knee as onlookers hooted. They were married on Dec. 18 at the Harvard Club of New York in a ceremony that was officiated by the Rev. Gilbert Martinez, a Roman Catholic priest, and that incorporated elements from their Persian, Catholic and Jewish heritages. The couple sat on chairs atop a sofreh, a ceremonial spread that was covered with Persian wedding symbols including a mirror, candelabra, eggs, nuts, pomegranates, flat bread and spices.
Married women rubbed sugar cones together over a veil above the couple's heads to insure a sweet future, as a family friend, Abbas Heydari, read a translation of poem by the Persian poet Rumi that included these words:
You and I, individuals no more, shall be mingled in ecstasy
Joyful and indifferent to idle fable, you and I.
Mr. Heydari followed Persian wedding tradition by asking Ms. Guiahi three times if she would consent to marry Mr. Levinson. The bride, who wore a sun-shaped diamond medal given to her great-grandfather over a century ago by a Qajar monarch, first said nothing, then, in Persian, said ''I'm thinking about it.''
She finally answered ''baleh'' (yes) to applause and laughter. After the couple exchanged vows, the priestly benediction from the Book of Numbers was recited in English by Father Martinez and in Hebrew by Steven Lewis, a rabbinical student who is a cousin of the bridegroom.
In her wedding toast, Maryam Guiahi, the bride's twin, noted that Mr. Levinson ''manages to bring out Mina's feminine, sensitive and vulnerable sides.''
Ms. Banky, the bride's friend, referred to these changes as ''ghili vili.'' In Farsi slang, she said, ''It means that he created a revolution in you.''
''You'll say, 'Does he make her ghili vili?' '' Ms. Banky continued.''And if he doesn't do that, it's a no-go. Jesse makes her ghili vili.''
Online Correction: December 24, 2010, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated Mina Guiahi's title at Millenium Management as a hedge-fund analyst.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MANHATTAN, DEC. 18: Jesse Levinson and Mina Guiahi used Catholic, Persian and Jewish elements in their ceremony at the Harvard Club. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EARL WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



710 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: More Consumers Are Letting Insurers Monitor Their Mileage

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT

 BODY:
CAR insurance rates have always been based on risk, and risk has usually been measured by the number of miles driven. So drivers often underreport the miles they travel to keep their rates low -- at the expense of other drivers. 
But a form of insurance that requires electronic verification of miles driven, in return for a discount, is gaining popularity. These so-called pay-as-you-drive policies -- miles are often tracked through a GPS system in the car -- are now offered in more than half of the states and are spreading, albeit slowly, despite privacy concerns.
Progressive Insurance, which began selling pay-as-you-drive policies in 1998 and now offers them in 27 states, said acceptance was strong among those eligible. ''Approximately one in four customers are choosing this,'' said Richard Hutchinson, Progressive's general manager for usage-based insurance.
Several factors are driving the growth. One is that the cost of GPS systems and data devices has plunged, making tracking more economical. For less than $100 companies can buy trackers that simply plug into the diagnostic port required on cars made after 1996.
In addition, people are more comfortable being monitored, having grown accustomed to sharing information on Web sites like Facebook and Twitter, and through phone applications like Foursquare and Google Latitude that show where they are.
Insurers have also decided to collect less information than they once anticipated. GMAC Insurance, which offers pay-as-you-drive coverage in 35 states, uses the OnStar system in General Motors cars only to confirm miles driven. ''Mileage is pretty innocuous,'' said Tim Hogan, vice president for national accounts. ''When you talk about time of day and speed, people become more concerned.''
Initially, the idea was that the insurers would collect data on what streets a driver takes, at what time of day and how aggressively he drives. Insurers would then determine risk based on behavior as well as mileage.
Progressive was at the forefront of this movement in the United States, but has reduced the scope of the data it uses to rate drivers -- for instance, by excluding location and speed. And it has changed the name of its plan to Snapshot Discount because it sets a discount after 30 days of data collection. After monitoring a driver for six months, it removes the monitoring device.
At the nontech extreme of pay-as-you-drive is MileMeter, which requires only that drivers photograph their odometers when they buy the policy and then at six-month renewal intervals. Available only in Texas, MileMeter sells coverage for a specified number of miles. If the customer buys 5,000 miles but drives only 3,000, he gets a 2,000-mile credit on the renewal.
Some insurers expect drivers to let themselves be closely tracked -- eventually. ''There are lingering concerns about privacy,'' said Robert Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group. ''But that barrier is breaking down.'' The Facebook generation, he said, sees it ''as normal to have interactivity with companies that they buy products from.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WATCHING: A Progressive Insurance device records the miles traveled. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE TELEMATICS (79%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (75%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



711 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2088 words

HEADLINE: A Mortgage Nightmare's Happy Ending

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
TWO and a half years ago, Robert and Amy Ahleman, a construction contractor and a financial services employee, were mired in a mortgage nightmare. After missing just one loan payment on their modest, well-kept bungalow in Bensalem, Pa., the couple began receiving notices from their lender. Default fees and eviction threats followed.
As the amounts they owed ballooned because of mounting late fees and other dubious charges, their lender refused to take their payments, claiming they were insufficient -- which put the Ahlemans even further behind.
The couple soon realized that filing for bankruptcy was the only way to save their home. At the time, the Ahlemans had two mortgages, one for just under $200,000 and a second for $50,000, and the debt was smothering them. 
Today, however, the Ahlemans have a happier story to tell. Not only did they survive their harrowing experience with their home intact, but they say they have emerged happier and thriftier for it.
''Given how much we love the house and our neighborhood, being able to go through that and get out of it makes you look at life totally different,'' says Ms. Ahleman, 33. ''We can wake up every morning now and not worry about our house being ripped out from underneath us.''
Back in July 2008, when the Ahlemans' troubles were first detailed in a front-page article in The New York Times, their experience was less common than it is today. Since then, of course, millions of average Americans have been sucked into a foreclosure maelstrom that is ruining their finances and their lives.
This disaster has been accompanied by a still-unsettled debate about how best to stem the foreclosure crisis. When the federal government first stepped in to shore up the economy in 2008, it chose to buttress Wall Street and the banking system with hundreds of billions of dollars in taxpayer bailouts while largely leaving homeowners on their own.
Now that the foreclosure mess continues to hamstring the economy and has upset political expectations, policy makers have focused more closely on it. But a divide remains: Should homeowners simply be foreclosed upon en masse, or should banks work with them to modify mortgages and reduce the loans to levels that homeowners can manage?
The Ahlemans can attest to the fact that a modification, when properly engineered, can offer a less financially painful solution for everyone involved in a potential foreclosure. Yet while the couple's default survival tale is uplifting, it's hardly the norm. The terms they received on their loan modification are rarely offered to troubled borrowers today, and so their journey -- and their escape from the possible consequences of a foreclosure -- remain unusual.
Some analysts and leading economists have cited a failure by banks to provide loan modifications as a signal reason that the foreclosure crisis continues to drag on so ruinously, years after it began. Each month, roughly 250,000 new foreclosures are started, while 100,000 are completed, according to a recent report by the Congressional Oversight Panel, which was created in 2008 to monitor financial markets and those who regulate them.
Figures like these have a huge effect on almost everyone in the country, experts say. Foreclosures blight neighborhoods, put financial pressure on families and drive down local real estate values. Investors who hold the loans in securitization trusts are also hurt by foreclosures, because recoveries on these properties are low. And consumers, made more cautious by a crippled housing market, spend less freely, curbing the economy's growth.
SOME are prospering from foreclosures, particularly loan servicers that administer mortgages for banks and investors who own the underlying properties. As the report from the Congressional Oversight Panel noted, loan servicers can profit significantly by pushing borrowers into foreclosure. It gives the servicers more opportunities to keep charging lucrative fees and little incentive to seek a modification.
Another obstacle to loan modifications arises if imperiled borrowers have second liens, like home equity loans, on their properties. These liens are often held by lenders who are also servicers on the first mortgage. They, too, have little interest in seeing any modification because it would harm the value of their holdings and reduce their income from fees.
Because of these realities, the Home Affordable Modification Program of the Treasury has been largely ineffective when it comes to helping borrowers get loan modifications from their banks, according to the Congressional panel.
As of mid-December, HAMP had processed almost 520,000 permanent loan modifications. The panel estimated that by the time the program is finished, it will have prevented only 700,000 foreclosures over all -- quite a contrast to the three million to four million modifications that the Treasury anticipated when it rolled out its plan. Up to 13 million foreclosures are expected to have occurred by 2012, the panel said.
Tim Massad, acting assistant Treasury secretary for financial stability, attributed the program's results to three things: ''The eligibility pool is smaller than we originally thought, and it has been much more difficult to contact borrowers,'' he said. ''Third, the banks have not executed these programs very well.''
Kurt Eggert, a professor at Chapman University School of Law in Orange, Calif., said: ''I think it's clear that while HAMP was well-intentioned, it hasn't delivered nearly enough. I think a big part of the problem is that nobody is effectively holding servicers' feet to the fire to say, 'Where are the loan mods that you should be delivering that help both borrowers and investors?' ''
IN late 2008, a little more than a year after they filed for bankruptcy to protect their home, the Ahlemans received a letter notifying them that their loan was being transferred to a new lender and loan servicer. The company that they would now be dealing with was Litton Loan Servicing, a unit of Goldman Sachs.
Ms. Ahleman said she immediately began pestering Litton for a loan modification.
''I harassed and harassed Litton,'' she recalls. ''We had to submit the paperwork right when our loan was transferred. We didn't hear anything through January and February. I would call them hysterical, crying.''
After months of no progress, in the spring of 2009, a reporter called Litton to ask why the Ahlemans' loan modification was stalled. Litton responded quickly and later made the couple a compelling offer: It said it would cut the interest rate on their first mortgage from a variable rate of 9.3 percent to a fixed rate of 4.59 percent. Litton also offered to waive $38,332 in arrears on their loan, which included late fees and legal costs that had accumulated while the loan was in default.
Separately, Banco Popular, the bank that owned the $50,000 second mortgage on the Ahlemans' property -- which carried a whopping interest rate of 12 percent -- wrote it off entirely. This eliminated the couple's obligation to pay the debt, which had grown to $62,000, including fees and other charges. (The couple paid taxes on the forgiven mortgage.)
Under the terms of the new loan, the Ahlemans' mortgage obligations dropped from almost $250,000 to roughly $198,000. Their monthly payment fell from $1,959 to $1,376.
The Ahlemans say their loan deal gave them a life-changing second chance. Since they received it in June 2009, they have made their payments on time; they emerged from bankruptcy a year ago.
With work busy for both of them, they have been able to put money away in case they hit another rough spot.
''We like to have one or two mortgage payments in a savings account so that money is there to fall back on if we do have a bad month,'' Ms. Ahleman says. ''From going through that whole experience, we became very frugal. Every now and then, we'll go out to dinner, but we don't splurge or go on shopping sprees.''
The Ahlemans hold no credit cards, except for the one that Mr. Ahleman, 36, uses for his contracting business. They cut up their credit cards back in 2008, when they filed for bankruptcy, paying them off under a court-approved plan.
''If we can't pay cash for it, we don't buy it,'' Ms. Ahleman says. ''That's one thing we learned. Credit cards will get you in trouble. I will never allow myself to get in that position again, regardless of what I have to do.''
For policy makers interested in designing loan modification programs that actually work, the Ahlemans' story may be instructive. Because most banks refuse to provide principal write-downs on troubled loans, the kind of modification the couple received is the exception rather than the rule across America today.
Most loan modifications, if they can be wrangled out of lenders at all, reduce the interest rate only slightly and tack onto the mortgage all the late fees, legal fees and other questionable costs that have accrued in the foreclosure process -- simply adding to the debt that borrowers must repay.
''While focusing on the safety and soundness of banking institutions, regulators have focused too little on protecting borrowers from abusive practices,'' says Mr. Eggert, the law professor.
The Congressional Oversight Panel noted the possibility that conflicts of interest among loan servicers were preventing loan modifications from being struck. Representative Brad Miller, a Democrat from North Carolina, is advocating that loan servicers be separated from the institutions that hold a borrower's loan, in order to eliminate such potential conflicts. He is also urging regulators to create strict criteria that loan servicers will have to follow when working on modifications.
Mr. Miller is circulating a letter among his colleagues that outlines his suggestions. It is addressed to top officials at six federal agencies or regulators: the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the United States Treasury.
For the loan modification criteria, Mr. Miller pointed to the rules set out by Farmer Mac, a government-sponsored enterprise that finances farm loans. Those rules include requirements about who qualifies for a change in the terms of their mortgage, and a calculation of the likely loss that a foreclosure might create.
''The criteria are designed to lead to a sensible modification that the farmer can sustain,'' Mr. Miller says, ''and it protects the investor as well by getting people into mortgages rather than undergoing the horrific expense of foreclosure.''
Mr. Miller also aims to end affiliations between servicers and banks, which he said were proving to be a genuine impediment to loan modifications.
''Having a servicer be affiliated with a big bank does not really have any offsetting advantage,'' he says. ''It creates conflicts of interest, it puts the servicer in the position of controlling information and allows it to protect itself at the expense of homeowners and investors.''
THE F.D.I.C. has proposed a set of loan servicer requirements that, among other things, would try to eliminate conflicts of interest.
Under its proposal, a servicer would have to disclose an ownership interest that it or an affiliate had in a loan secured by the same property on which another mortgage was outstanding. The servicer would also have to establish a process to address any second lien that it might own where the first mortgage is seriously delinquent.
Mr. Eggert said a national set of servicing standards would be a crucial step toward putting consumers and investors onto a level playing field with loan servicers.
''At the recent Senate testimony where all the federal agencies came forward and testified about servicer problems, it was telling that they didn't talk about what they have already done about it,'' he says. ''Instead, they talked about the investigations they are conducting that they hoped would inform them on what to do next. How many years are we into this crisis? We are long past the point of where we should be investigating to see what's happening.''
For the Ahlemans, at least, their flirtation with financial disaster -- and the modification that helped them survive -- has made them appreciate life more.
''We're just really, really happy all the time,'' says Ms. Ahleman. ''I used to say to myself, 'When I wake up in the morning, I just want to feel how people who are comfortable in life feel.' And now we have the ability to do that. It can be done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amy and Robert Ahleman in their home in Bensalem, Pa. They say the modification they received on their mortgage has given them a life-changing second chance -- and has left them thriftier. (BU1)
 The Ahlemans at home, top and above. They turned a corner when a loan servicer cut their interest rate in half and waived late fees. ''We can wake up every morning now and not worry about our house being ripped out from underneath us,'' Ms. Ahleman says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EVICTION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



712 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: From Cooking to Candles

 BODY:
MY parents had high expectations for my sister and me. My father consulted in developing countries for various companies and was an adventurer. He was gone for six months of the year; we'd join him during summer vacation. Once my mother, father, sister and I were dropped off in the bush in Alaska with nothing but small blow-up boats and had to fend for ourselves for a week. We're all accomplished fishermen.
I attended Phillips Exeter Academy in Exeter, N.H., and had classes six days a week and five hours of homework at night. My sister and I read Foreign Affairs magazine in high school, and we each wanted to be secretary of state. I also loved cooking, and at one time I thought I'd be a chef. The summer after high school I attended Le Cordon Bleu, the Paris cooking school. But being a chef is a hard life, and I quickly gave that up. 
After graduating from Dartmouth in 1985 with a degree in international economics, I was a consultant for Bain & Company. I was on a team that worked on a cost-reduction project for Burlington Industries in a weaving mill on the Duke University campus in Durham, N.C. We'd work all day in the plant and have a good time in the college bars at night. The project was my introduction to the importance of brands. I was probably one of the few 24-year-old guys with a Laura Ashley duvet, a Burlington product, on my bed.
Bain provided a crash course in analytics. I wanted to work within a company, however, so I left after three years and went to work for Castle & Cooke, the holding company, in its mergers and acquisitions group. Next I went to Campbell Soup and worked in the frozen-food division and on the Pepperidge Farm product line. After that, I worked two years in sales and marketing at the ammunition maker Winchester a division of the Olin Corporation in Illinois. The job was too different from what I had been doing, however, and I wasn't successful.
In 1997, I moved to Totes-Isotoner in Ohio. Bain Capital had acquired Aris Isotoner from Sara Lee that year, and I worked for my former Bain & Company boss, Doug Gernert, who had become C.E.O. of the new company. I helped to integrate Isotoner into the Totes business line.
We sold Totes-Isotoner to Swander Pace Capital in 2001, and by then I wanted to return to the East Coast. My three children were born in three different states because I moved around so much. When the opportunity to become a senior vice president of the Yankee Holding Corporation came up in 2001, I jumped at it.
When I told my father I was going to interview with the company, he said that was the stupidest thing he had ever heard. He told me that he'd been to a lot of dinner parties, and that no one burned the type of candle Yankee Candle sold. He was used to seeing long, narrow tapers, not the fragrant candles in a jar that our company is known for. I told him, ''To be honest, Dad, you're not the target audience.''
I've been president of the company since 2005 and C.E.O. since October 2009. We make all our candles in Massachusetts and have complete control over production. It gives us a competitive advantage. We have 75 fragrances in our stores alone, and we introduce an average of 20 new fragrances and two new candle forms a year.
Candles are evocative. They transport people to an earlier time and make their home warm and cozy. They're an emotional product. Everyone has a story about a candle fragrance. One gentleman told us that his mother's favorite was butter cream. After she passed away, he'd light one of these, and it would remind him of her.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HARLAN KENT: President and C.E.O., the Yankee Candle Company, South Deerfield, Mass. AGE: 47 HOMETOWN: Greenwich, Conn. FAVORITE CANDLE FRAGRANCE: Autumn Wreath 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); FABRIC MILLS (71%); HOMEWORK (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); TEXTILE MFG (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (62%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (62%)

COMPANY: BAIN & CO (70%); OLIN CORP (63%); INTERNATIONAL TEXTILE GROUP INC (55%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: OLN (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); NAICS332992 SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (63%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS314999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS TEXTILE PRODUCT MILLS (55%); NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (55%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (55%); SIC2299 TEXTILE GOODS, NEC (55%); SIC2231 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, WOOL (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (55%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



713 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Who Killed the Disneyland Dream?

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
OF the many notable Americans we lost in 2010, three leap out as paragons of a certain optimistic American spirit that we also seemed to lose this year. Two you know: Theodore Sorensen, the speechwriter present at the creation of J.F.K.'s clarion call to ''ask what you can do for your country,'' and Richard Holbrooke, the diplomat who brought peace to the killing fields of Bosnia in the 1990s. Holbrooke, who was my friend, came of age in the Kennedy years and exemplified its can-do idealism. He gave his life to the proposition that there was nothing an American couldn't accomplish if he marshaled his energy and talents. His premature death -- while heroically bearing the crushing burdens of Afghanistan and Pakistan -- is tragic in more ways than many Americans yet realize. 
But a third representative American optimist who died this year, at age 91, is a Connecticut man who was not a player in great events and whom I'd never heard of until I read his Times obituary: Robbins Barstow, an amateur filmmaker who for decades recorded his family's doings in home movies of such novelty and quality that one of them, the 30-minute ''Disneyland Dream,'' was admitted to the National Film Registry of the Library of Congress two years ago. That rare honor elevates Barstow's filmmaking to a pantheon otherwise restricted mostly to Hollywood classics, from ''Citizen Kane'' to ''Star Wars.''
''Disneyland Dream'' was made in the summer of 1956, shortly before the dawn of the Kennedy era. You can watch it on line at archive.org or on YouTube. Its narrative is simple. The young Barstow family of Wethersfield, Conn. -- Robbins; his wife, Meg; and their three children aged 4 to 11 -- enter a nationwide contest to win a free trip to Disneyland, then just a year old. The contest was sponsored by 3M, which asked contestants to submit imaginative encomiums to the wonders of its signature product. Danny, the 4-year-old, comes up with the winning testimonial, emblazoned on poster board: ''I like 'Scotch' brand cellophane tape because when some things tear then I can just use it.''
Soon enough, the entire neighborhood is cheering the Barstows as they embark on their first visit to the golden land of Anaheim, Calif. As narrated by Robbins Barstow (he added his voiceover soundtrack to the silent Kodachrome film in 1995), every aspect of this pilgrimage is a joy, from the ''giant TWA Super Constellation'' propeller plane (seating 64) that crosses the country in a single day (with a refueling stop in St. Louis) to the home-made Davy Crockett jackets the family wears en route.
To watch ''Disneyland Dream'' now as a boomer inevitably sets off pangs of longing for a vanished childhood fantasyland: not just Walt Disney's then-novel theme park but all the sunny idylls of 1950s pop culture. As it happens, Disney's Davy Crockett, the actor Fess Parker, also died this year. So did Barbara Billingsley, matriarch of the sitcom ''Leave It to Beaver,'' whose fictional family, the Cleavers, first appeared in 1957 and could have lived next door to the Barstows. But the real power of this film is more subtle and pertinent than nostalgia.
When the Barstows finally arrive at the gates of Disneyland itself and enter its replica of Main Street, U.S.A. -- ''reconstructed as it might have been half a century earlier,'' as the narration says -- we realize that the America of ''Disneyland Dream'' is as many years distant from us as that picture-postcard Main Street was from this Connecticut family. The almost laughably low-tech primitivism of the original Disneyland, the futuristic Tomorrowland included, looks as antique in 2010 as Main Street's horse-drawn buggies and penny-candy emporium looked to the Barstows.
Many of America's more sweeping changes since 1956 are for the better. You can't spot a nonwhite face among the family's neighbors back home or at Disneyland. Indeed, according to Neal Gabler's epic biography of Disney, civil rights activists were still pressuring the park to hire black employees as late as 1963, the same year that Martin Luther King Jr.'s march on Washington and Betty Friedan's ''Feminine Mystique'' started upending the Wonder Bread homogeneity that suffuses the America of ''Disneyland Dream.''
But, for all those inequities, economic equality seemed within reach in 1956, at least for the vast middle class. (Michael Harrington's expose of American poverty, ''The Other America,'' would not rock this complacency until 1962.) The sense that the American promise of social and economic mobility was attainable to anyone who sought it permeates ''Disneyland Dream'' from start to finish.
The Barstows exemplified that postwar middle class. Robbins Barstow's day job was as a director of professional development for a state teachers' union. His family wanted for nothing, but finances were tight. Once in California they cheerfully stretch their limited expense money ($300 for the week) by favoring picnics over restaurants. As they dive into the pool at the old Huntington Sheraton, the grand Pasadena hotel where they're bivouacked, they marvel at its reminders of ''bygone days of more leisurely and gentle upper-class style and elegance.''
The key word in that sentence is ''bygone.'' The Barstows accept as a birthright an egalitarian American capitalism where everyone has a crack at ''upper class'' luxury if they strive for it (or are clever enough to win it). It's an America where great corporations like 3M can be counted upon to make innovative products, sustain an American work force, and reward their customers with a Cracker Jack prize now and then. The Barstows are delighted to discover that the restrooms in Fantasyland are marked ''Prince'' and ''Princess.'' In America, anyone can be royalty, even in the john.
''Disneyland Dream'' is an irony-free zone. ''For our particular family at that particular time, we agreed with Walt Disney that this was the happiest place on earth,'' Barstow concludes at the film's end, from his vantage point of 1995. He sees himself as part of ''one of the most fortunate families in the world to have this marvelous dream actually come true'' and is ''forever grateful to Scotch brand cellophane tape for making all this possible for us.''
Only 15 months after the Barstows returned home, America's faith in its own unbounded future, so palpable in ''Disneyland Dream,'' would be shaken by the Soviet launch of Sputnik, the first Earth-orbiting satellite. Could it be that America, for all its might, entrepreneurship and brainpower, was falling behind its cold war antagonist in the race to the future? It was in that shadow that John F. Kennedy promised a New Frontier that would reclaim America's heroic destiny, and do so with shared sacrifice and a renewed commitment to the lower-case democratic values central to both the American and Disneyland dreams of families like the Barstows.
This month our own neo-Kennedy president -- handed the torch by J.F.K.'s last brother and soon to face the first Congress without a Kennedy since 1947 -- identified a new ''Sputnik moment'' for America. This time the jolt was provided by the mediocre performance of American high school students, who underperformed not just the Chinese but dozens of other countries in standardized tests of science, math and reading. In his speech on the subject, President Obama called for more spending on research and infrastructure, more educational reform and more clean energy technology. (All while reducing the deficit, mind you.) Worthy goals, but if you watch ''Disneyland Dream,'' you realize something more fundamental is missing from America now: the bedrock faith in the American way that J.F.K. could tap into during his era's Sputnik moment.
How many middle-class Americans now believe that the sky is the limit if they work hard enough? How many trust capitalism to give them a fair shake? Middle-class income started to flatten in the 1970s and has stagnated ever since. While 3M has continued to prosper, many other companies that actually make things (and at times innovative things) have been devalued, looted or destroyed by a financial industry whose biggest innovation in 20 years, in the verdict of the former Fed chairman Paul Volcker, has been the cash machine.
It's a measure of how rapidly our economic order has shifted that nearly a quarter of the 400 wealthiest people in America on this year's Forbes list make their fortunes from financial services, more than three times as many as in the first Forbes 400 in 1982. Many of America's best young minds now invent derivatives, not Disneylands, because that's where the action has been, and still is, two years after the crash. In 2010, our system incentivizes high-stakes gambling -- ''this business of securitizing things that didn't even exist in the first place,'' as Calvin Trillin memorably wrote last year -- rather than the rebooting and rebuilding of America.
In last week's exultant preholiday press conference, Obama called for a ''thriving, booming middle class, where everybody's got a shot at the American dream.'' But it will take much more than rhetorical Scotch tape to bring that back. The Barstows of 1956 could not have fathomed the outrageous gap between this country's upper class and the rest of us. America can't move forward until we once again believe, as they did, that everyone can enter Frontierland if they try hard enough, and that no one will be denied a dream because a private party has rented out Tomorrowland.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); FILM (87%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); CHILDREN (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%)

COMPANY: 3M CO (81%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (54%)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (81%); MMM (NYSE) (81%); MMM (FRA) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (81%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (81%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (81%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



714 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Elite U.: The Measure of an Education

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Is Going to an Elite College Worth It?'' (Week in Review, Dec. 19):
Your criteria for evaluating the question in your article's headline are problematical. Two of the measures involve professional success; the third, ''better connections''; and the fourth, professional and personal happiness. What has happened to the intellectual quality of the education as a value in itself?
In addressing that often neglected issue, generalizations about ''elite colleges'' need to recognize distinctions. An Amherst offers a very different undergraduate education from a Yale. 
Above all, decisions must rest on the needs of a given student. Some thrive in large institutions, and others flourish only in response to the atmosphere and individual attention that a smaller college is likelier to give.
Many major research universities privilege research and graduate education over undergraduate teaching. This works well for some undergraduates, as it did for me, while others would receive a better education elsewhere, including not only the small elite liberal arts colleges but also less prestigious schools.
Heather Dubrow New York, Dec. 19, 2010
The writer, a Harvard graduate, is a professor of English at Fordham University.
To the Editor:
As interesting as the research is about the advantages of attending an elite college in terms of jobs and income levels, it would be enlightening to address additional questions.
For example, which graduates are more likely to produce something or do something that makes a difference for other individuals and society in general? Which students are less concerned with income levels and more focused on pursuing their passion in areas like the arts, teaching, social work and so forth?
Which institutions tend to develop leaders who really inspire others? And, how do privileged, well-to-do families, with many contacts, contribute to the job attainment and financial achievements of their children who can afford to attend elite institutions?
Looking beyond job access and income might provide a better answer to the ''is it worth it?'' question.
Gordon Porter Miller Orford, N.H., Dec. 20, 2010
To the Editor:
Most students do not pay the $50,000 sticker price at an elite university, so using that cost to frame a discussion on return on investment is misleading. It would be more accurate to use the expected cost for the average student.
For instance, by my calculation, the average cost of attending Princeton, your example, is closer to $29,000. (Princeton's average aid package for a student in the Class of 2014 was $38,350, and more than 60 percent of attending students receive financial aid.)
Quoting only the $50,000 sticker price furthers the reputation of ''elite colleges'' as being out of reach for all but the wealthiest. That is damaging since, as you point out, students from disadvantaged family backgrounds benefit disproportionally from attending selective colleges.
While not inexpensive, an ''elite'' education is more accessible than the sticker price makes it appear.
Kathryn A. Lankester New York, Dec. 19, 2010
The writer is a 2008 graduate of Princeton.
To the Editor:
Having graduated from a respected but not top-ranked school and having struggled to find gainful employment throughout the recession before returning for graduate school, I have often wondered whether I would have been better off with a degree from a more prestigious school.
Looking back, I realize that there is an easy way to avoid much of the stress of the freshman application process and mitigate the cost of the bachelor degree: community college. These two-year schools are inexpensive yet cover the basic courses and offer qualified candidates the opportunity to transfer to other schools, even prestigious ones.
Given that elite private schools can be more expensive by a factor of 10, going to community college for the first two years can save significant money.
Richard Fassett Ridgewood, Queens, Dec. 19, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHANNON MAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); WRITERS (73%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



715 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; ON THE RUNWAY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: In 2011, Social Selling

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
In the midst of the recession, designers could actually help their hard-hit businesses by focusing on e-commerce and social network connections. The ones who did that are looking pretty smart right now, because there are even more new ideas to try in 2011.
Probably the most important accomplishment for Web-resistant designers was to recognize that their customers talk to one another online; they want girlfriend advice and they want designers to listen. As a result, many more designers this year began using Facebook and Twitter. Customers also want more access to a designer's world, and they want to be able to do that through their cellphones and tablets. ''Chanel launched an app and everyone panicked,'' said James Gardner, the co-founder and chief executive of Create the Group, a leading interactive agency. '' 'Oh, we need an app.' '' 
Well, maybe. Mr. Gardner, whose firm provides digital services for clients like Marc Jacobs, Burberry, Celine and Alexander Wang, said there were several new developments that fashion houses should be considering. The most important is social commerce - selling products through a social network site like Facebook. Experts expect that business to explode. As Sucharita Mulpuru, a vice president and retail analyst for Forrester Research, told Business Week, ''It's not natural to go to Facebook to shop - yet.''
There will be more decentralization as consumers use mobile phones to explore a designer's site, or shop. Also, Mr. Gardner said, companies should look for more ways to personalize the experience. One way is with customized products, something Nike has already done and that Burberry plans to do with a bespoke service for its iconic trench coat. Want a sleeveless trench coat? No problem.
In 2011, designers will also give more instant access to customers, Mr. Gardner said. This past season, Burberry offered nearly everything on it its spring 2011 runway show for immediate Web sales. The blunt emphasis on embellished trench coats and leather jackets caused some critics to complain of crass commerce - and obviously there needs to be a balance between commerce and creativity. Still, there are other ways a designer can be inviting; Oscar de la Renta, a client of Mr. Gardner's, recently created a private access site for sale pieces and exclusive items for clients.
Many fashion houses still lag on the digital front, but if a designer is innovative or exciting on the runway, it seems very odd nowadays not to find the same degree of commitment on the brand's site. It was no surprise to hear that Phoebe Philo, the designer of Celine, has been involved in new digital projects.
In February, Moda Operandi, an e-commerce site created by Aslaug Magnusdottir and Lauren Santo Domingo, will begin selling runway looks from 40 to 50 designers in New York and Europe. Consumers of high fashion often complain that they can't find the runway styles they love. That's because designers decide not to produce them or retailers don't want to risk buying something too crazy or expensive.
Moda Operandi's plan may satisfy designers and shoppers. A few days after a collection is shown on the runway, members of Moda Operandi will be given a detailed look at the clothes and accessories. Then there will be a flash sale conducted over a period of 36 to 72 hours, with items offered at full retail price. Customers will put down a 50 percent deposit and receive the merchandise about four months later, with the balance due. Between seasons, the site's partners plan to keep members connected in other ways, like creating virtual closets. They've hired Yasmin Sewell, a well-respected retail buyer in London, as fashion director.
Among the designers who have signed up are Calvin Klein, Thakoon, Rochas and Nina Ricci. Ms. Magnusdottir, who previously worked at Gilt Groupe, said membership the first season would be kept small - about 15,000 people, who will have invitation rights. She expects about 100,000 members by the end of 2011.
Kate Ciepluch, the fashion director of Shopbop, said she liked the idea, provided that customers don't experience a burnout effect from instant shopping. After all, even fashion professionals view runway shows as a source of inspiration, and do their shopping once they know what they want. Still, Ms. Ciepluch said, for some obsessive high-end consumers, getting a great runway look may be all that matters. And for designers, this method could lead to another way to capture customer demand.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EXPRESS BUYER? Did Emma Watson get her 2011 Burberry trench online? (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER PETERSON/BUZZFOTO VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SOCIAL COMMERCE (78%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); SALES & SELLING (66%)

COMPANY: BURBERRY GROUP PLC (83%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

TICKER: BRBY (LSE) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (58%); MARC JACOBS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



716 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: From Big 3's Clouds To Greener Pastures

BYLINE: By DON SHERMAN

 BODY:
Detroit
THE great economic quake of '08 rattled Detroit mightily, wreaking severe damage to the foundation of the American auto industry. Bankruptcies at Chrysler and General Motors, resulting in drastic cuts at the automakers and their suppliers, dominated the headlines day after day.
Behind the front-page news were the more personal stories of job losses -- hundreds of thousands across the industry, according to the Labor Department -- that were part of the aftershocks. Even so, some who found themselves on the outside discovered that their talents were in demand elsewhere.
Instead of playing musical chairs with competitors or starting down entirely new career paths where their knowledge and experience might not be so highly valued, many of these Detroit graduates have found greener pastures at electric car start-ups and suppliers.
Technological advances in batteries, motors and electronic controls have created new possibilities for electric-car ventures. After plodding along for two decades, the carmaking operations are accelerating with the help of a new business model: small, agile organizations aided by a network of outside suppliers, developers and consultants. 
That's good news for the engineers and executives with the expertise needed to move this emerging technology out of the lab, down an assembly line and into customers' hands.
Credit the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 for greasing the skids at the manufacturer level. Nearly $3 billion in loans and grants helped firms developing electric, hybrid-electric and alternative-fuel vehicles gain momentum. The companies, in turn, often hired former Detroit 3 employees who had the required skills.
The downturn made available proven leaders like Jim Taylor, who, after a 30-year career on small and large engineering teams, was ready for a change. One of the first dozen employees of G.M.'s Saturn division, then later the head of Cadillac and Hummer, Mr. Taylor had enjoyed more highs than lows. After leaving G.M., he joined Amp Electric Vehicles, an Ohio start-up whose ranks include members of the team that developed G.M.'s EV1 electric car in the 1990s, as the firm's vice chairman and chief executive.
''The opportunities here range from the conversion of existing cars to electric drive to establishing new relationships with major manufacturers to help develop electric-propulsion components,'' Mr. Taylor said in a telephone interview. ''All the experience I gained at G.M. prepared me well for this environment, where there are far more questions than answers.''
He'll have plenty to do. A utility in Iceland recently hired Amp to provide 1,000 electric S.U.V.'s, and Michigan-based DTE Energy wants Amp to electrify part of its fleet.
Tom Reichenbach, chief engineer at Aptera, an electric car maker, is another Detroit graduate thriving in this emerging field. Though he lacked electric-car experience, Mr. Reichenbach spent the last half of his 26-year stint at Ford working on high-stakes racing and high-performance projects. As engineering manager for the Special Vehicles Team, he helped to develop the Ford GT and the Mustang Shelby GT500. And until he left two years ago, he was assistant chief engineer for the EcoBoost V-6 engine.
''I was lucky to enjoy a string of fascinating projects,'' Mr. Reichenbach said. ''But when the downturn hit and Ford was into a fourth round of layoffs, I updated my resume. When my boss mentioned that, at 56, I was eligible for retirement, I knew I was in trouble.''
He added: ''Everyone in Detroit experienced a scare when gas prices spiked and buying habits changed overnight. But I lost faith in Ford's future when the company's entire electric vehicle team was part of the first round of engineering layoffs.''
Looking for a challenge less dependent on petroleum supplies, Mr. Reichenbach interviewed at two electric-car start-ups, Aptera and Fisker. Tesla Motors, also on his list, was not hiring when he went prospecting for a new job.
Aptera's outlook convinced Mr. Reichenbach it was a company where he could thrive. ''Their business plan was modest, and their growth prospects were geared to cash flow,'' he recalled. ''Aptera's desire to build a light and aerodynamically efficient -- albeit unusual looking -- car made sense.''
He said his new job ''is way more fun and rewarding than working at Ford,'' adding, ''The four-year incubation times there were torture.''
Two of Mr. Reichenbach's colleagues are also Detroit expats. When Steve Fambro and Chris Anthony, the Southern California dreamers who started Aptera, needed help, they recruited Paul Wilbur. His 26 years of experience with Ford, Chrysler and two specialty firms, ASC and Saleen, qualified him to be president and chief executive. A few months later, a chief marketing officer, Marques McCammon, was hired; he had previously worked at Chrysler, ASC and Saleen.
Farther up the California coast, Tesla also tapped the Detroit talent pool. The chief financial officer, Deepak Ahuja, came from Ford. The chief designer, Franz von Holzhausen, is an alumnus of G.M., where he won credit for creating two sports cars, the Pontiac Solstice and the Saturn Sky.
Fisker Automotive, a developer of high-end hybrids based in Irvine, Calif., recently hired Linda Theisen as vice president for purchasing. During 20 years at Ford, she worked in North America and Europe. ''I'm enjoying much less bureaucracy and far more accountability,'' Ms. Theisen said. ''We get data, make decisions and move without over-analyzing. It's a much quicker environment than what I experienced in Detroit.''
Another California start-up, Coda Automotive, recruited experts who spent years at G.M. Broc TenHouten, a senior engineering vice president, brought chassis design and development experience to the Chinese-made sedans fitted with electric powertrains that the company plans to sell. Coda's battery systems vice president, Philippe Gow, cut his engineering teeth developing batteries for G.M.'s EV1. Coda's drive system is provided by UQM Technologies, a Colorado company headed by Eric Ridenour; until 2007, he was Chrysler's chief operating officer responsible for engineering, manufacturing, quality and product strategy.
The battery industry, growing rapidly in response to demand, is also peppered with former Detroit 3 executives. Mary Ann Wright was ahead of the curve when she joined Johnson Controls, a leading auto industry supplier, in 2007, after a high-profile career at Ford. She once led the development of the Escape Hybrid and Ford's fuel-cell demonstration fleet. Now she is vice president for technology and innovation at Johnson Controls' new power solutions division.
''I decided to focus on sustainable mobility during my time at Ford,'' Ms. Wright said. ''Johnson Controls was an attractive destination not only because it's the world's largest battery provider, but also because it's financially sound, socially responsible and deeply committed to environmental sustainability.''
Several other Ford graduates hold high-level positions at competing battery makers. At A123 Systems, Mujeeb Ijaz is an engineering director and Geoff Taylor is vice president for quality. Prabhakar Patil, a former colleague of Ms. Wright, is chief executive of LG Chem's North American battery-making subsidiary; Martin Klein, previously of Ford, is engineering director.
G.M. has also been a training ground for the ranks of battery companies. Bob Purcell, who once headed the advanced technology group that created the EV1, was recently named chairman of Protean Holdings, a maker of in-wheel electric motors.
''What we electric-car veterans contribute besides our expertise is a higher level of confidence that a given program will be properly executed,'' Mr. Purcell said. ''Since we understand how the decision-making and validation processes work inside the large companies, we're more able to meet ambitious cost and performance targets.''
After a 30-year G.M. career, Jon Bereisa, systems architect for the EV1 and the Volt, is keeping his options open as a consultant. He is helping one of his clients, Magna E-Car Systems, investigate lithium-ion battery design and manufacturing options. Magna also developed the software and powertrain components for the 2012 Ford Focus Electric. Instead of expanding its engineering staff for that project, Ford turned to a proven supplier already working on electric cars for other makers.
''It's not as if I walked out of G.M. to grab a fishing pole and never come back,'' Mr. Bereisa said. ''Basically, I just moved upstream, from a car manufacturing organization to the more specialized technology companies which are striving to make electric vehicles truly practical.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EXPLORERS: Mary Ann Wright of Johnson Controls and Jim Taylor of Amp left big jobs in Detroit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TOM PIDGEON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU1)
 ELECTRIFIED: Tom Reichenbach left Ford for Aptera. (AU3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); ENGINEERING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERVIEWS (65%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); DTE ENERGY CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); DTE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ICELAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



717 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: In Budget Crunch, Science Fairs Struggle to Survive

BYLINE: By EMMA GRAVES FITZSIMMONS

 BODY:
DARIEN, Ill. -- When one team's model helicopter broke before a recent science competition here, the students made a replacement at the last minute using a pizza box and a rubber band.
Things do not always go as planned at the competition, which one teacher called a ''track-and-field event for nerds.'' But a high school sophomore, John Hickernell, said he was happy just to be at the event, the Illinois Science Olympiad, after one team had to back out at the last minute because members could not raise enough money to attend.
''I'm upset about my event,'' John said. ''Imagine not even getting to compete at all.'' 
Securing financing for these competitions and for the time-honored local science fair has become increasingly difficult because of the poor economy, organizers say. Sponsors have dropped out of local science fairs, while some schools are scaling back extracurricular activities, including science programs, because of state budget cuts.
In Missouri, two prominent science fairs in the St. Louis area are having financing problems after losing corporate donations. One California school district did not have a science fair last school year, and Louisiana's statewide competition was almost canceled last spring.
''The donations are down dramatically this year,'' said Jill Malcom, the director of the Mastodon Art and Science Regional Fair, one of the St. Louis-area competitions. ''We are doing whatever it takes to keep the fair going.''
Science programs are more important than ever because the country needs students who are interested in science to compete in the global economy, said Paula Golden, the director of the Broadcom Foundation, which finances a prominent national science competition for middle school students.
''Without a body of young people who are innovators and scientists and engineers, we cannot sustain any kind of growth economically,'' Ms. Golden said. ''It is a national crisis.''
The Society for Science & the Public, a nonprofit group that holds an annual international science fair, does not track local science fair financing issues, but a spokesman said the group had received feedback regarding problems.
''I certainly hear all the time that schools are challenged to have science fairs -- for financial reasons or because they have to focus on testing,'' said the spokesman, Rick Bates.
The Alvord Unified School District in Riverside, Calif., did not hold a science fair last school year because of budget cuts. Students and teachers were disappointed, but officials had to make cuts somewhere, said Cynthia Glover Woods, the district's director for elementary education.
The district did not plan to hold a science fair this school year until the Alvord Educational Foundation stepped in and offered to find sponsors. The president of the foundation, Grey Frandsen, said he could not believe that students were missing out on a formative experience.
''Here in Southern California, our economy has been decimated,'' he said. ''The science and technology fields are some areas of bright hope.''
In Louisiana, the regional and statewide science fairs scheduled for last spring were almost canceled. When Louisiana State University lost financing in the state budget, officials eliminated the programs but then reinstated them with private financing.
The Academy of Science -- St. Louis Science Fair, scheduled for the spring, lost half of its financing when the pharmaceutical company, Pfizer, withdrew as a sponsor after giving $65,000 last school year. Organizers said they were hopeful that another donor would come forward.
The fair's director, Mary E. Burke, pointed to the two students it sent to an international science fair last school year as examples of how fairs inspire students. One student tested the DNA of a plant he found while traveling in China and determined that it was an unidentified species. Another student got an internship at a laboratory at Washington University in St. Louis after she did a project about why some of her relatives had diabetes and others did not.
''We tell the families that when your child goes 'huh' and wonders about this or that, write it down. That is a science project,'' Ms. Burke said. ''Those are the projects they really love that make them realize science is fun.''
The Mastodon fair has lost dozens of sponsors. Its budget has dropped from $250,000 last year to $118,000 for the March fair. Ms. Malcom, the fair's director, is scrounging for money to buy the $3 medals for second- and third-place winners and worrying about how to fund scholarships.
''This event really can be the spark that changes a kid's life,'' Ms. Malcom said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); TRACK & FIELD (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); CORPORATE GIVING (68%); GLOBALIZATION (63%)

COMPANY: BROADCOM CORP (53%)

TICKER: BRCM (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (70%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



718 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; MOTORING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Insurance Rate Forecast: Cloudy, Chance of Rises

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
FOR many drivers, trying to figure out where auto insurance premiums are headed is like trying to catch butterflies: just when you get close, they fly off in another direction.
Many indicators that analysts typically use to forecast premiums have been in flux. Highway miles driven nationally have risenbut not as much as last year, and the millions of unemployed drivers are using their cars less than ever. The number of fatal accidents has steadily fallen, but the cost of medical care and car repairs has risen. Auto insurance-related fraud has made a comeback, but tort reform in some states has reduced the number of legal settlements stemming from accidents.
''There isn't a nice clean trend,'' said Brian Sullivan, editor of the Auto Insurance Report newsletter. ''Instead, you have a churning sea,and companies have no idea what to do with it.'' 
Statistics on premiums are slow to be collected, which makes forecasting difficult. Through 2009, the average amount that families spent on auto insurance fell for five consecutive years, but rates in some parts of the country started to inch up in 2010.
Given the likelihood that rates will rise furtherin some regions, analysts say consumers should review policies to seek ways to offset any increases. A recent survey by Consumer Reports, for example, indicated that 14 percent of subscribers would have saved money if they had switched insurers.
But experiences vary widely. Unlike, say, the price of new cars, insurance premiums are based largely on the driving habits, financial wherewithal and the value of the car. States also regulate premiums, so rates differ widely among and within states. Drivers who live in areas where the car theft rate is high are likely to pay more than those who live in safer neighborhoods.
Kirstie Hague, who moderates forums at Edmunds.com, said that drivers who post online comments about their auto insurance premiums tend to say they are paying more for insurance these days, though a handful also say they have received deep discounts of late. Some drivers also complain that their rates went up with no warning or explanation from insurers.Though she considers the $85 a month she pays to insure her 2003 Infiniti G35 expensive, Ms. Hague has stuck with State Farm because she likes how the company has handled her claims.
''I've had this agent for 20 years,and I'm comfortable with him,'' she said.
Her experience is not unusual. Ac- cording to Jeremy Bowler, an analyst at J. D. Power & Associates, 9 out of 10 customers renew their existing policies. Many consumers, he said, are willing to pay more for their coverage if they believe they are getting adequate service. Still, the economic downturn has had a notable impact on drivers, especially those who have lost jobs, said Robert P. Hartwig, president and chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute.
''The frequency of accidents has also fallen because people cut down on vacations, going out less to the mall and commuting less,'' Mr. Hartwig said. Of course, ''as soon as the economy recovers, people will get back in their cars.''
Still, consumers who are driving less can inquire about discounts, and they can ask about technology that lets in- surers monitor the miles they drive, a pay-as-you go insurance plan offered by Progressiveand other insurers.
Drivers are holding onto cars longer, and older cars cost less to insure. Over the last year, the average age of cars on the road rose by 4.5 months, to 64 months, according to R.L. Polk & Com- pany, which compiles automotive data.
Some drivers drop collision coverage because the cost of fixing old cars often exceeds their value. John Swigart, chief marketing officer of eSurance, said that since the economic downturn,the number of policyholders who carried only liability coverage had jumped 10 percent. ''You can chop off 30 to 40 percent of your premiums by not covering your car when it gets damaged,'' he said.
In addition to the growing number of older cars on the road, the percentage of uninsured drivers rose to 18.1 percent in 2009, from 17.4 percent a year earlier, according to CNW Research. The economy is a big reason: a percentage point increase in the unemployment rate leads to a rise of 0.75 percentage point in the number of uninsured drivers, said Michael McShane, a risk management professor at Old Dominion University.
The rise in the number of uninsured drivers has prompted more consumers to buy uninsured or underinsured mo- torist insurance, which covers medical costs and car repairs if the policyholder is struck by someone without coverage.
Another result of the economic downturn, analysts say, is that companies are increasingly using so-called insurance credit scores to help them determine a driver's potential risk. These scores are determined using a blend of more than two dozen indicators, including financial credit scores -- and for many people, these have dropped.
''Credit scores are a very large part of how they determine your credit-based insurance score and your rates,'' said Jeff Blyskal, a senior editor at Consumer Reports, who said consumers should ask to be rescored by their insurers every year. ''You're talking about thousands of dollars of difference from the top to the bottom.''

GRAPHIC: MAPS: State by State, the Burden of Auto Insurance Costs: Auto insurance expenses, per vehicle, as a percentage of median income for four-person families, based on 2008 data (the most recent available) and compiled by Auto Insurance Report. Premiums take the biggest bite of income in the District of Columbia and the smallest in North Dakota. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); VEHICLE THEFT (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (73%); MARKETING SURVEYS (71%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); TORT REFORM (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



719 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN WARD HILL, S.I.; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Exalted Views, Down-to-Earth Prices

BYLINE: By JOHN FREEMAN GILL

 BODY:
AS Fitzgerald might have said, people who live on hills are different from you and me. From Murray Hill to Carnegie Hill in Manhattan, from Brooklyn Heights to Park Slope in Brooklyn, New Yorkers with cash to spend have long sought the high ground. In Staten Island, Todt Hill is a coveted area, as are Grymes Hill and Dongan Hills Colony. But for all its elevation, Ward Hill, on the island's north shore, has managed to remain below the radar.
''It's a very secret enclave,'' said Estelle Karp, a sales agent with Coldwell Banker Hometime Realty, who has lived on the island for 33 years. ''Very few people on Staten Island have ever been there or even heard of it.''
One Staten Islander who made the ascent, and was suitably impressed by the panoramic views she found there, was Muthoo Neravanda, who manages the Brooklyn office of her physician husband, Medappa. 
In the late 1980s, the Neravandas, who lived in Dongan Hills, attended a dinner party at a friend's home on Nixon Avenue in Ward Hill.
''It was awe-inspiring,'' Ms. Neravanda said of the vista of Lower Manhattan and the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge out her friend's window. ''It was, 'Oh my God.' The house was built into the hill, so as you enter you see the expanse of the bridge, and New York City, too.''
The image never left her, and over the next decade and a half, whenever Ms. Neravanda was in the area, she would drive up Ward Hill to admire the views and, she said, ''just dream.''
Finally, in 2004, after both their children had grown up, the Neravandas bought a two-bedroom midcentury cottage on Tompkins Circle in Ward Hill, with sweeping views of the Staten Island and Brooklyn waterfronts and the serene blue band of water in between, from the lower part of Upper New York Bay, past the majestic span of the Verrazano and out to the open sea.
They didn't move in until just this month, having provided the house as a home for their grown daughter and niece for several years.
Now the home has been thoroughly renovated, and the elder Neravandas have the daily pleasure of watching the languorous parade of ships making their way into New York Harbor in what, from this tranquil overlook, seems slow motion.
''Each day it's different,'' Ms. Neravanda said of the view. ''One day the whole Narrows was full of mist and the whole bridge was missing, so it was the way it must have looked before the bridge was built, eerie but beautiful.''
As with many houses in Ward Hill, a large proportion of which date to the early decades of the last century, little work had been done on the Neravandas' home since its construction. It seemed due for a face-lift.
On the outside, the couple transformed it into an angular contemporary. On the inside they added a bedroom to accommodate visiting children and grandchildren.
Although Ms. Neravanda would not disclose the cost of the house or its renovation, real estate records show that a renovated five-bedroom house next door sold last month for $725,000.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
Many homes have remained in the same families for decades, but as longtime residents either retire away or pass away, Ward Hill has been enjoying an infusion of new residents from all walks of life.
''It's a real eclectic mix of people, with a lot of artsy people moving in,'' said Jody Scaravella, a restaurateur who lives in a renovated Dutch colonial down the block from the Neravandas. ''It's not a boring, homogeneous zone.''
In a terraced garden behind his house, Mr. Scaravella grows produce for Enoteca Maria, the Italian restaurant he owns in nearby St. George. While tending his zucchini in the summer, he said, he is occasionally able to hear live rock music being performed by talented bands at the homes of neighbors who work in the music industry. At other times he hears only the singing of birds.
''Urban bucolic'' is how Joseph Carroll, the district manager of Community Board 1, described the area, adding that ''it's economically singular but ethnically diverse.'' The Census Bureau's American Community Survey, based on samples from 2005 to 2009, estimated that residents in the area of Ward Hill and adjacent streets were 41 percent Hispanic, 29 percent white, 12 percent Asian and 8 percent black.
The neighborhood was named for Caleb T. Ward, who around 1835 built a monumental porticoed mansion on the crest of a hill 200 feet above sea level. The house, according to its city landmark designation report, is one of the finest examples of Greek Revival architecture in the five boroughs and one of the last great houses remaining from a time when Staten Island's north shore was a resort for wealthy New Yorkers.
Ward Hill, hidden in plain sight above low-rise buildings on Victory Boulevard, defines a neighborhood just a few blocks long and a few wide. Its boundaries, while not universally accepted, are generally considered to be: Cebra Avenue to the south; Victory Boulevard running northeast from Cebra; Fiedler Avenue and Tompkins Circle to the north; and Tompkins Circle and Ward and Nixon Avenues to the east.
The area's signature views are best obtained from Nixon Avenue, Tompkins Circle and Ward Avenue. Those streets are lined with well-maintained single-family homes, representing a mix of styles: colonials, Tudors, even a ranch or two. But because so many are of older vintage, these prime streets nonetheless have a cozy, cohesive feel.
Nixon Avenue has a manicured aspect that Ms. Karp, the Coldwell Banker agent, likened to the Long Island enclave of Garden City. On the crest of Ward Avenue stand stately if not elaborate houses, with more modest homes mixed in as the hill slopes down in either direction.
''They have something that can never be removed,'' Mr. Carroll, the district manager, said of Ward Hill residents. ''The people on the perimeter have the views, and the houses on the interior have the serenity.''
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
Compared with neighboring Grymes Hill, its higher-profile neighbor, Ward Hill has relatively down-to-earth prices. While a three- or four-bedroom home with prime water views in Grymes Hill can easily cost more than $1 million, Ms. Karp said, a comparable house with optimal views can be had in Ward Hill for $625,000 to $725,000.
There are seven houses on the market in Ward Hill. Theresa Ferrara, a sales agent with Coldwell Banker Hometime Realty, said that 16 had sold in the last year. According to an analysis by Anthony Licciardello, a sales associate with Robert DeFalco Realty, single-family homes sold for an average of $530,000, after 153 days on the market. Two three-bedroom semidetached houses on Tompkins Circle, both with New York Harbor views, sold for $395,000 each.
The average sale price for houses over the past 12 months has climbed to $411,808 from $278,961 the previous year, with homes remaining on the market an average of 118 days, half as long as the year before.
WHAT TO DO
For those with an adventurous palate, there is a rich variety of local mom-and-pop restaurants in the less-rarefied area below the hill. A 129-step ''stair street'' runs from Tompkins Circle down to Victory Boulevard, providing a short cut to Sri Lankan, Mexican, Polish and Caribbean menus. ''These are authentic restaurants, people expressing their culture and trying to eke out a living,'' said Mr. Scaravella, the restaurateur.
The Cargo Cafe, on Bay Street in nearby St. George, hosts rock, jazz and big-band acts. The Every Thing Goes Book Cafe and Neighborhood Stage, also on Bay Street, presents music, poetry and theater. Richmond County Bank Ballpark, home of the single-A Staten Island Yankees, is a five-minute drive. Nearby Silver Lake Park has a public golf course and tennis courts.
THE SCHOOLS
Elementary students are zoned to attend Public School 16 in neighboring Tompkinsville, which serves prekindergarten through fifth grade. Intermediate School 61 in nearby Randall Manor covers Grades 6 through 8. Each received a C on its most recent city progress report.
High schools nearby include two in St. George: the Ralph R. McKee Career and Technical Education High School and Curtis High School. SAT averages at McKee last year were 411 in reading, 429 in math and 386 in writing; at Curtis, they were 439, 441 and 430. Citywide averages were 439, 462 and 434.
THE COMMUTE
Lower Manhattan is half an hour away, via a five-minute drive and a ride on the Staten Island Ferry. The ferry is so close that some residents make the 10- to 15-minute walk instead. The Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, a gateway to Brooklyn, is about a 10-minute drive.
THE HISTORY
Ward Hill has been popular with public figures. Lewis Nixon, whose wife, Sally Lewis Wood Nixon, bought the Ward Mansion in 1904, was head of Tammany Hall. Joseph Marotta, a former chairman of the local community board, lived on Tompkins Circle until his death in 2008. At a ceremony in May, Nixon Avenue was given the additional name of Hon. John J. Marchi Way, after the longtime state senator and Ward Hill resident who died last year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AS ADVERTISED: Vistas like this one, from the window of a house for sale on Ward Avenue, come with the real estate territory in Ward Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



720 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths LITTMAN, ALLAN N.

 BODY:
LITTMAN--Allan N.,a determined and superb trial lawyer, an accomplished writer on the law, and a beloved husband, father and grandfather, died of cancer on December 20, 2010, at his home in Marin County, California. He was 81 and actively practiced law until his death. Born in England in 1929, Mr. Littman was evacuated with his mother and siblings to New York during World War II. 
After graduating from public high school, he returned to England to take his BA with first class honors from University College, University of London in 1949. Mr. Littman studied law at Harvard, where he met his wife Caroline. In April of 1951 they were married and the next year he graduated cum laude from Harvard Law School. Hired by Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro of San Francisco, he practiced with the firm for 42 years, leading his own litigation group. He tried many cases for motion picture companies, International Harvester, Potlatch Corporation, United Parcel Service and others. He was also special trial counsel to the California State Board of Accountancy and the chief trial counsel for the Federal Home Loan Bank Board of San Francisco in its investigation of what later became the Lincoln Savings & Loan Corporation/ Charles Keating scandal. Mr. Littman joined BartkoZankel as counsel in 2002 where he worked in major commercial litigation, including a leading California court decision against Price Waterhouse that confirmed the right of all parties to a jury trial regardless of pre-dispute waivers. An expert in litigation involving accountants, Mr. Littman recently published the book The Fraud Triangle, detailing the century-long breaches by auditors of their public trust to detect and expose fraud that played a key role in the nation's recent financial crisis. Active in community affairs and professional associations, Mr. Littman was a Trustee of the Bancroft Library, a key fundraiser for the building of the Belvedere-Tiburon library, and a Fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers. He is survived by his beloved wife of 59 years, Caroline; his sons Jeremy, Jonathan and Peter, and their wives, Tajali, Sherry and Barbara; and his adoring grandchildren, Alex, Elizabeth, Jesse, Katherine, Nicholas and Sam, and his step-grandchildren Isaac and Felicia, and son-in-law, Anton. This fall he was deeply saddened by the loss of his daughter Victoria. He was an intellectual gentleman with ecumenical interests and impeccable style, who fiercely questioned assertions and half-truths. He will be greatly missed by his family, friends and professional colleagues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); WRITERS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); ACCOUNTING (87%); DEATHS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); LEGAL EDUCATION (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING (66%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); WORLD WAR II (56%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (56%)

COMPANY: PILLSBURY WINTHROP SHAW PITTMAN LLP (91%); POTLATCH CORP (69%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%)

TICKER: PCH (NASDAQ) (69%); UPS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS322130 PAPERBOARD MILLS (69%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (69%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



721 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Mina Guiahi and Jesse Levinson

BYLINE: By AMY SOHN

 BODY:
FOR MANY COUPLES, the season between Christmas and Valentine's Day is fraught with drama, because holidays have a way of bringing underlying tensions to the surface.
And so it was with Mina Guiahi and Jesse Levinson. During the 2007-8 holiday season, Mr. Levinson, a foreign service officer then working at the United States Mission to the United Nations, had been mulling the personal implications of his next assignment: a year in Iraq, without her.
On Valentine's Day 2008, while other couples nuzzled at the NoHo hot spot Bond Street, Mr. Levinson and Ms. Guiahi (pronounced gee-AH-hee) quarreled about the risks his trip presented. Mr. Levinson, who wanted to go but did not want to lose Ms. Guiahi, asked if she would stay committed to him while he was gone.
She said yes. 
''I realized I really cared about him,'' said Ms. Guiahi, 31, a portfolio manager at Millennium Management in New York. ''I felt like I could lose someone that I loved, and I'd never had that feeling before.''
Mr. Levinson, 32, had long known an assignment in Iraq was a possibility, primarily because there were ''all of three dudes that speak Arabic in the State Department,'' he said, joking.
And, Ms. Guiahi added: ''When he commits, he commits. He won't even cancel on dinner.''
The pragmatic Ms. Guiahi, who is fond of beginning sentences with the word ''yo,'' accepted their fate.
''Regardless of how hard it was on her, she sucked it up,'' said Poopak Banky, a friend of Ms. Guiahi's. ''They're very nurturing and encouraging of each other's dreams and goals.''
The couple had been introduced in July 2006 at the Seattle wedding of mutual friends. At the reception, the talkative and twinkle-eyed Mr. Levinson, who had worked in the West Bank and Pakistan, asked Ms. Guiahi, who was born in Iran and came to the United States as a baby, if she spoke Farsi. ''I speak some,'' she told him, taken aback that this question had come from a man who seemed to have no connection to Persian culture.
Later they went outside and kissed in the parking lot. When they returned, Ms. Guiahi recalled, a friend said, ''We've all just grabbed a cocktail and watched you two make out.''
Mr. Levinson was about to begin his diplomatic posting in New York and would be living on the Upper East Side, not far from Ms. Guiahi. On their first date they discovered a mutual love of running and soon began to train together in Central Park. Ms. Guiahi said they dated in a way that was ''a step above casual but below serious.''
By May 2007, however, they had decided that their careers made a relationship too difficult, and they broke up.
Even so, that summer they regularly bumped into each other in the park, whereupon he would ask her out, and she would turn him down. But when he asked to go running, Ms. Guiahi agreed. For the rest of the summer they ran together nearly every week. ''It was a way to spend time together without dating,'' he said. ''That was really when we started talking and becoming intimate.''
One night that August, Ms. Guiahi consented to a dinner date in the Alphabet City neighborhood of the Lower East Side, and afterward they went to Underbar at the W Hotel in Union Square, where they discussed their relationship and kissed.
''It was one of those 'wow' kisses,'' Ms. Guiahi said. She asked him to come back to her apartment to continue their discussion.
On Park Avenue, near Ms. Guiahi's apartment, they noticed a man trying to change a flat tire. The couple tried to help, but the wheel's bolts were stripped. Ms. Guiahi gave the man a number for a towing company and several hundred dollars.
''That moment crystallized for me the way she is instinctively generous to people, and kind,'' Mr. Levinson said. ''That was when we became a couple again.'' At her apartment, he told her he loved her for the first time.
Julie Ingersoll, a friend of Ms. Guiahi's, noticed a change. ''When you meet the person you're supposed to spend your life with, a certain anxiety is eliminated,'' Ms. Ingersoll said.
Maryam Guiahi, Mina's twin sister, also noticed: ''We would be in the middle of a conversation, and he wouldn't stop kissing her on the cheek. Here was my sister getting all these kisses, and she wasn't grossed out by it.''
In September, Mr. Levinson won over Ms. Guiahi's parents, Fatemeh Etemad Moghadam and Farrokh Guiahi, on a visit to their home in Huntington, N.Y., on Long Island. Worldly and secular college professors who came to the United States after the start of the 1979 revolution in Iran, they did not care whether or not she married an Iranian, but they did want her partner to be educated.
Mr. Levinson impressed them with his love of foreign policy. ''My dad doesn't watch 'Monday Night Football,' '' Ms. Guiahi said. ''When my parents sit down to talk, it's about current events.''
''All the things that I like about Persian culture,'' she added, ''are who Jesse is: affectionate, into his family and very generous.''
For his part, Mr. Levinson said, ''I don't think people with backgrounds as different as ours could have gotten together in many places, and New York is one of them.''
And then he was gone. While he worked with a provincial reconstruction team in Iraq, Ms. Guiahi dealt with a different kind of risk: co-managing her first portfolio at Diamondback Advisors as the financial markets crashed.
For the next year, they sent instant messages or talked via Skype a few times a week. ''He was still being flirty and making me laugh,'' Ms. Guiahi said. ''I thought, 'How does this guy always keep my attention even when he's in Iraq?' ''
She periodically dined with his mother, Gail M. Donovan, of New York, and provided her with updates. ''We started getting more and more information about Jesse from Mina,'' said Mr. Levinson's older brother, Andrew Levinson. ''That was when I realized that their relationship had evolved.''
The couple would meet in Istanbul and Paris for romantic getaways. In Paris, they celebrated his 30th birthday at a rooftop restaurant, looking out at the city, where as a baby she had briefly lived while her parents were trying to get United States visas.
By July 2009, Mr. Levinson had returned to New York, but within days he went off to the Harvard Kennedy School of Government in Massachusetts, creating a more quotidian long-distance arrangement. (He is now an adviser with the State Department in Washington on Palestinian economic affairs.)
This second year of separation would bring their relationship into sharper focus. ''When they lived in one another's backyards, they weren't quite sure where it was going,'' said Mr. Levinson's sister-in-law Stephanie Avila. ''And when they had miles separating them, they figured it out.''
Friends began noticing how these two ambitious souls -- who had to support each other through serious trials at an age when many couples' biggest argument is about capping the toothpaste tube -- began growing together. Ms. Guiahi, who had been a tomboy, began learning how to cook, and how to enjoy it, from Mr. Levinson. She also got her ears pierced so he could buy her earrings.
Juan Gabarro, who knows Mr. Levinson well, said his friend can be ''a bit mercurial,'' and recalled the ''settling effect'' of Ms. Guiahi's influence.
And Carey Piraino, a friend of Ms. Guiahi's said: ''They've fought for their relationship a little bit already. Some people would say love is supposed to be easy. They know it's not. Sometimes you have to claw through.''
On March 19, 2010, just before Nowruz, the Persian New Year, Mr. Levinson proposed in Central Park. They had gone for a run and afterward he asked if she wanted to talk.
''We never do that after a run,'' Ms. Guiahi said. ''Normally we walk home.''
Behind the Metropolitan Museum's Temple of Dendur, he pulled a ring out of his running shorts and got down on one knee as onlookers hooted. They were married on Dec. 18 at the Harvard Club of New York in a ceremony that was officiated by the Rev. Gilbert Martinez, a Roman Catholic priest, and that incorporated elements from their Persian, Catholic and Jewish heritages. The couple sat on chairs atop a sofreh, a ceremonial spread that was covered with Persian wedding symbols including a mirror, candelabra, eggs, nuts, pomegranates, flat bread and spices.
Married women rubbed sugar cones together over a veil above the couple's heads to insure a sweet future, as a family friend, Abbas Heydari, read a translation of poem by the Persian poet Rumi that included these words:
You and I, individuals no more, shall be mingled in ecstasy
Joyful and indifferent to idle fable, you and I.
Mr. Heydari followed Persian wedding tradition by asking Ms. Guiahi three times if she would consent to marry Mr. Levinson. The bride, who wore a sun-shaped diamond medal given to her great-grandfather over a century ago by a Qajar monarch, first said nothing, then, in Persian, said ''I'm thinking about it.''
She finally answered ''baleh'' (yes) to applause and laughter. After the couple exchanged vows, the priestly benediction from the Book of Numbers was recited in English by Father Martinez and in Hebrew by Steven Lewis, a rabbinical student who is a cousin of the bridegroom.
In her wedding toast, Maryam Guiahi, the bride's twin, noted that Mr. Levinson ''manages to bring out Mina's feminine, sensitive and vulnerable sides.''
Ms. Banky, the bride's friend, referred to these changes as ''ghili vili.'' In Farsi slang, she said, ''It means that he created a revolution in you.''
''You'll say, 'Does he make her ghili vili?' '' Ms. Banky continued.''And if he doesn't do that, it's a no-go. Jesse makes her ghili vili.''
Correction: January 2, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Vows column last Sunday, about the marriage of Mina Guiahi and Jesse Levinson, misstated the bride's job. She is a portfolio manager at Millennium Management, not a hedge-fund analyst.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MANHATTAN, DEC. 18: Jesse Levinson and Mina Guiahi used Catholic, Persian and Jewish elements in their ceremony at the Harvard Club. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EARL WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



722 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: China Again Raises Interest Rates

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China's central bank announced on Saturday that it was raising interest rates for the second time in about two months in what appears to be a long-term campaign to suppress inflation as many ordinary Chinese express discontent with rising consumer prices.
The People's Bank of China said it would raise the one-year benchmark lending rate by 25 basis points to 5.81 percent, and the benchmark deposit rate by the same amount to 2.75 percent. 
The Chinese economy has been awash in liquidity due to government stimulus money and generous lending by state banks. Chinese officials are now concerned about an overheated economy and the inflationary pressures that come with that.
The fact that China's economy has remained robust during the global recession gives Chinese officials leeway to rein in liquidity. The country has been growing at an average of 10 percent a year, and the strength of the export industry remains high despite a dip in late 2008, when the financial crisis first roiled the United States and then other parts of the world.
But investment in large capital-intensive projects has also been fueling the economic engine and driving up prices.
Analysts have been saying for months that they expect China to raise interest rates throughout 2011.
Earlier this month, the government reported that the consumer price index rose 5.1 percent in November, compared with the same period a year ago. It was the largest increase in three years. Since the spring, the year-on-year increase in the index has been above 3 percent, despite the government's desire to keep the average increase below 3 percent for the entire year.
Chinese leaders are aware of the political dangers of high inflation. Xinhua, the state news agency, reported on Dec. 17 that Li Keqiang, the vice premier, said at a conference of government officials that ''more efforts should be provided to stabilize prices next year.'' He added that over the next five years, growth rates should be defined ''reasonably.'' Mr. Li is expected to take over as prime minister in 2012 from Wen Jiabao, who now oversees the economy.
Officials have signaled throughout the month that moves will be taken to better control spending across the country. China announced on Dec. 3 that it would tighten monetary policy next year, shifting it from ''relatively loose to prudent.'' That was a clear sign that Chinese officials were intensely concerned about inflation.
On Dec. 15, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a prominent research organization based in Beijing, reported that high inflation and housing prices had contributed to a deepening sense of popular disaffection. The findings of the report were based on a survey of 4,143 people.
Commodity prices were the main concern of urban residents, followed by health care and housing prices, according to the findings, which were reported by Xinhua. Rural residents in this year's survey said health care was their top concern, followed by commodity prices.
Job satisfaction among those surveyed was at its lowest in four years, according to the academy.
Also on Dec. 15, the central bank said that satisfaction among people with the current level of prices had dropped to an 11-year low. The bank's findings were based on a survey of 20,000 people during the fourth quarter in 50 cities across China.
The real estate market is another concern. The property market in China has been booming. Rising property prices, along with the government stimulus money and loose bank lending, have spurred new developments across the country. Even long-term residents on the tropical southern island of Hainan have had to grapple with soaring real estate prices from outsiders coming in to buy up land.
Some analysts say this growth has resulted in a gargantuan bubble in the real estate market, while others argue that the capacity will be put to good use.
A record $560 billion of residential property was sold in 2009, an increase of 80 percent over 2008, according to government statistics.
In October, the government increased its benchmark lending rate, in what appeared to be an effort to tamp down real estate speculation.
Until now, low wages have helped to hold down inflation and keep China's export industry competitive. But those wages in the context of soaring real estate prices mean that migrant workers from the interior of China are becoming less tolerant of poor work conditions on the coasts, where many of China's export manufacturing factories are located. Many workers are now choosing to stay closer to home in the interior provinces, and some companies are moving their manufacturing centers inland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (60%); EXPORT TRADE (53%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (93%)

PERSON: LI KEQIANG (58%); WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



723 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Cut Here. Invest There.

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Atlanta
As I'm about to start a four-month book leave, I need to get a few things off my chest: President Obama understood, rightly, that our economy needed more stimulus, so, given the G.O.P.'s insistence on extending the Bush tax cuts for all, he struck the best deal he could. The country, we are told, is now in a better mood, seeing our two parties work together. I, alas, am not in a better mood.
I'll be in a better mood when I see our two parties cooperating to do something hard. Borrowing billions more from China to give ourselves more tax cuts does not qualify. Make no mistake, President Obama has enacted an enormous amount in two years. It's impressive. But the really hard stuff lies ahead: taking things away. We are leaving an era where to be a mayor, governor, senator or president was, on balance, to give things away to people. And we are entering an era where to be a leader will mean, on balance, to take things away from people. It is the only way we'll get our fiscal house in order before the market, brutally, does it for us. 
In my book, the leaders who will deserve praise in this new era are those who develop a hybrid politics that persuades a majority of voters to cut where we must so we can invest where we must. To survive in the 21st century, America can no longer afford a politics of irresponsible profligacy. But to thrive in the 21st century -- to invest in education, infrastructure and innovation -- America cannot afford a politics of mindless austerity either.
The politicians we need are what I'd call ''pay-as-you-go progressives'' -- those who combine fiscal prudence with growth initiatives to make their cities, their states or our country great again. Everyone knows the first rule of holes: When you're in one, stop digging. But people often forget the second rule of holes: You can only grow your way out. You can't borrow your way out.
One of the best of this new breed of leaders is Atlanta's inspiring mayor, 41-year-old Kasim Reed. A former Georgia state senator, Reed won Atlanta's mayoral race in December 2009 by 714 votes. The day he took office, Atlanta had $7.4 million in reserves, an out-of-control budget and was laying off so many firefighters there were only three personnel on a truck, below national standards. A year later, it has $58 million in reserves, and Reed has a 70 percent approval rating -- which he earned the hard way.
Reed started his reforms by enlisting two professionals, not cronies, to help run the city: Peter Aman, a partner at Bain & Company, a consultancy, to be his chief operating officer; and John Mellott, a former publisher of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, to lead a pension review panel. Atlanta has 7,000 city employees, but today, says Reed, ''you can't hire a receptionist'' without it ''personally being approved by Aman.''
Then Reed tackled the city's biggest problem: runaway pensions, which were eating up 20 percent of tax revenues and are rising. In the early 2000s, the police, fire and municipal workers' unions persuaded the city to raise all their pensions -- and make it retroactive. So, between 2001 and 2009, Atlanta's unfunded pension obligations grew from $321 million to $1.484 billion. Yikes.
Reed couldn't cut existing pensions without lawsuits, but he cut back pensions for all new employees to pre-2000 levels and raised the vesting period to 15 years from 10. When union picketers swarmed city hall to protest, Reed invited them all into his office -- in shifts -- where he patiently explained, with charts, that without pension reform everyone's pensions would go bust.
By getting the city's budget under control, Reed then had some money to invest in more police officers and, what he wanted most, to reopen the 16 recreation centers and swimming pools in the city's most disadvantaged neighborhoods, which had been shuttered for lack of money. ''People were shooting dice in the empty pools,'' he said. Local businesses have now offered to finance after-school job-skills programs in the reopened centers. Cut here. Invest there.
Reed combines a soft touch with a hard head. I like how he talks about both Atlanta and America: ''We are not going to be what we have been for the last 50 years if we don't change, and everybody in a position to have more than two people listening to them needs to be saying that, because the time we have to make the adjustments is running out. We need to get on with it. Whether it's the deficit, education or investing in young people or immigration -- we are not tackling [them] in the fundamental ways required. We're just doing it piecemeal. We're just playing and surviving. And we need to be very clear where just surviving takes you: it takes you to a lifestyle of just survival.''
In a recent address, Reed elaborated: ''The bottom line is that for the country to do and to be what we have been ... there must be a generation tough enough to stick out its chin and take the hit. ... It is time to begin having the types of mature and honest conversations necessary to deal effectively with the new economic realities we are facing as a nation. We simply cannot keep kicking the can down the road.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); MAYORS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



724 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2316 words

HEADLINE: How Superstars' Pay Stifles Everyone Else

 BODY:
This article was adapted from ''The Price of Everything: Solving the Mystery of Why We Pay What We Do,'' by Eduardo Porter, an editorial writer for The New York Times. The book, to be published on Jan. 4 by Portfolio, examines how pricing affects all of our choices.
IN 1990, the Kansas City Royals had the heftiest payroll in Major League Baseball: almost $24 million. A typical player for the New York Yankees, which had some of the most expensive players in the game at the time, earned less than $450,000.
Last season, the Yankees spent $206 million on players, more than five times the payroll of the Royals 20 years ago, even after accounting for inflation. The Yankees' median salary was $5.5 million, seven times the 1990 figure, inflation-adjusted. 
What is most striking is how the Yankees have outstripped the rest of the league. Two decades ago. the Royals' payroll was about three times as big as that of the Chicago White Sox, the cheapest major-league team at the time. Last season, the Yankees spent about six times as much as the Pittsburgh Pirates, who had the most inexpensive roster.
Baseball aficionados might conclude that all of this points to some pernicious new trend in the market for top players. But this is not specific to baseball, or even to sport. Consider the market for pop music. In 1982, the top 1 percent of pop stars, in terms of pay, raked in 26 percent of concert ticket revenue. In 2003, that top percentage of stars -- names like Justin Timberlake, Christina Aguilera or 50 Cent -- was taking 56 percent of the concert pie.
The phenomenon is not even specific to the United States. Pele, from Brazil, the greatest soccer player of all time, made his World Cup debut in Sweden in 1958, when he was only 17. He became an instant star, coveted by every team on the planet. By 1960, his team, Santos, reportedly paid him $150,000 a year -- about $1.1 million in today's money. But these days, that would amount to middling pay. The top-paid player of the 2009-10 season, the Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo, made $17 million playing for the Spanish team Real Madrid.
Of course, the inflated rewards of performers at the very top have to do with specific changes in the underlying economics of entertainment. People have more disposable income to spend on entertainment. Corporate sponsorships, virtually non-existent in the age of Pele, account today for a large share of performers' income. In 2009, the highest-earning soccer player was the English midfielder David Beckham, who made $33 million from endorsements on top of a $7 million salary from the Los Angeles Galaxy and AC Milan.
But broader forces are also at play. Nearly 30 years ago, Sherwin Rosen, an economist from the University of Chicago, proposed an elegant theory to explain the general pattern. In an article entitled ''The Economics of Superstars,'' he argued that technological changes would allow the best performers in a given field to serve a bigger market and thus reap a greater share of its revenue. But this would also reduce the spoils available to the less gifted in the business.
The reasoning fits smoothly into the income dynamics of the music industry, which has been shaken by many technological disruptions since the 1980s. First, MTV put music on television. Then Napster took it to the Internet. Apple allowed fans to buy single songs and take them with them. Each of these breakthroughs allowed the very top acts to reach a larger fan base, and thus command a larger audience and a bigger share of concert revenue.
Superstar effects apply, too, to European soccer, which is beamed around the world on cable and satellite TV. In 2009, the top 20 soccer teams reaped revenue of 3.9 billion euros, more than 25 percent of the combined revenue of all the teams in European leagues.
Pele was not held back by the quality of his game, but by his relatively small revenue base. He might be the greatest of all time, but few people could pay to experience his greatness. In 1958, there were about 350,000 television sets in Brazil. The first television satellite, Telstar I, wasn't launched until July 1962, too late for his World Cup debut.
By contrast, the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa, in which Ronaldo played for Portugal, was broadcast in more than 200 countries, to an aggregate audience of over 25 billion. Some 700 million people watched the final alone. Ronaldo is not better then Pele. He makes more money because his talent is broadcast to more people.
IF one loosens slightly the role played by technological progress, Dr. Rosen's framework also does a pretty good job explaining the evolution of executive pay. In 1977, an elite chief executive working at one of America's top 100 companies earned about 50 times the wage of its average worker. Three decades later, the nation's best-paid C.E.O.'s made about 1,100 times the pay of a worker on the production line.
This has separated the megarich from the merely very rich. A study of pay in the 1970s found that executives in the top 10 percent made about twice as much as those in the middle of the pack. By the early 2000s, the top suits made more than four times the pay of the executives in the middle.
Top C.E.O.'s are not pop stars. But the pay for the most sought-after executives has risen for similar reasons. As corporations have increased in size, management decisions at the top have become that much more important, measured in terms of profits or losses. Top American companies have much higher sales and profits than they did 20 years ago. Banks and funds have more assets.
With so much more at stake, it has become that much more important for companies to put at the helm the ''best'' executive or banker or fund manager they can find. This has set off furious competition for top managerial talent, pushing the prices of top-rated managers way above the pay of those in the tier just below them. Two economists at New York University, Xavier Gabaix and Augustin Landier, published a study in 2006 estimating that the sixfold rise in the pay of chief executives in the United States over the last quarter century or so was attributable entirely to the sixfold rise in the market size of large American companies.
And therein lies a big problem for American capitalism.
CAPITALISM relies on inequality. Like differences in other prices, pay disparities steer resources -- in this case, people -- to where they would be most productively employed.
Despite the great danger and cost of crossing the border illegally into the United States, hundreds of thousands of the hardest-working Mexicans are drawn by the relative prosperity they can achieve north of the border -- where the average income of a Mexican-American household is more than $33,000, almost five times that of a family in Mexico.
In poor economies, fast economic growth increases inequality as some workers profit from new opportunities and others do not. The share of national income accruing to the top 1 percent of the Chinese population more than doubled from 1986 to 2003. Inequality spurs economic growth by providing incentives for people to accumulate human capital and become more productive. It pulls the best and brightest into the most lucrative lines of work, where the most profitable companies hire them.
Yet the increasingly outsize rewards accruing to the nation's elite clutch of superstars threaten to gum up this incentive mechanism. If only a very lucky few can aspire to a big reward, most workers are likely to conclude that it is not worth the effort to try. The odds aren't on their side.
Inequality has been found to turn people off. A recent experiment conducted with workers at the University of California found that those who earned less than the typical wage for their pay unit and occupation became measurably less satisfied with their jobs, and more likely to look for another one if they found out the pay of their peers. Other experiments have found that winner-take-all games tend to elicit much less player effort -- and more cheating -- than those in which rewards are distributed more smoothly according to performance.
Ultimately, the question is this: How much inequality is necessary? It is true that the nation grew quite fast as inequality soared over the last three decades. Since 1980, the country's gross domestic product per person has increased about 69 percent, even as the share of income accruing to the richest 1 percent of the population jumped to 36 percent from 22 percent. But the economy grew even faster -- 83 percent per capita -- from 1951 to 1980, when inequality declined when measured as the share of national income going to the very top of the population.
One study concluded that each percentage-point increase in the share of national income channeled to the top 10 percent of Americans since 1960 led to an increase of 0.12 percentage points in the annual rate of economic growth -- hardly an enormous boost. The cost for this tonic seems to be a drastic decline in Americans' economic mobility. Since 1980, the weekly wage of the average worker on the factory floor has increased little more than 3 percent, after inflation.
The United States is the rich country with the most skewed income distribution. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the average earnings of the richest 10 percent of Americans are 16 times those for the 10 percent at the bottom of the pile. That compares with a multiple of 8 in Britain and 5 in Sweden.
Not coincidentally, Americans are less economically mobile than people in other developed countries. There is a 42 percent chance that the son of an American man in the bottom fifth of the income distribution will be stuck in the same economic slot. The equivalent odds for a British man are 30 percent, and 25 percent for a Swede.
NONE of this even begins to account for the damage caused by the superstar dynamics that shape the pay of American bankers.
Remember the '80s? Gordon Gekko first sashayed across the silver screen. Ivan Boesky was jailed for insider trading. Michael Milken peddled junk bonds. In 1987, financial firms amassed a little less than a fifth of the profits of all American corporations. Wall Street bonuses totaled $2.6 billion -- about $15,600 for each man and woman working there.
Yet by current standards, this era of legendary greed appears like a moment of uncommon restraint. In 2007, as the financial bubble built upon the American housing market reached its peak, financial companies accounted for a full third of the profits of the nation's private sector. Wall Street bonuses hit a record $32.9 billion, or $177,000 a worker.
Just as technology gave pop stars a bigger fan base that could buy their CDs, download their singles and snap up their concert tickets, the combination of information technology and deregulation gave bankers an unprecedented opportunity to reap huge rewards. Investors piled into the top-rated funds that generated the highest returns. Rewards flowed in abundance to the most ''productive'' financiers, those that took the bigger risks and generated the biggest profits.
Finance wasn't always so richly paid. Financiers had a great time in the early decades of the 20th century: from 1909 to the mid-1930s, they typically made about 50 percent to 60 percent more than workers in other industries. But the stock market collapse of 1929 and the Great Depression changed all that. In 1934, corporate profits in the financial sector shrank to $236 million, one-eighth what they were five years earlier. Wages followed. From 1950 through about 1980, bankers and insurers made only 10 percent more than workers outside of finance, on average.
This ebb and flow of compensation mimics the waxing and waning of restrictions governing finance. A century ago, there were virtually no regulations to restrain banks' creativity and speculative urges. They could invest where they wanted, deploy depositors' money as they saw fit. But after the Great Depression, President Franklin D. Roosevelt set up a plethora of restrictions to avoid a repeat of the financial bubble that burst in 1929.
Interstate banking had been limited since 1927. In 1933, the Glass-Steagall Act forbade commercial banks and investment banks from getting into each other's business -- separating deposit taking and lending from playing the markets. Interest-rate ceilings were also imposed that year. The move to regulate bankers continued in 1959 under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, who forbade mixing banks with insurance companies.
Barred from applying the full extent of their wits toward maximizing their incomes, many of the nation's best and brightest who had flocked to make money in banking left for other industries.
Then, in the 1980s, the Reagan administration unleashed a surge of deregulation. By 1999, the Glass-Steagall Act lay repealed. Banks could commingle with insurance companies at will. Ceilings on interest rates vanished. Banks could open branches anywhere. Unsurprisingly, the most highly educated returned to banking and finance. By 2005, the share of workers in the finance industry with a college education exceeded that of other industries by nearly 20 percentage points. By 2006, pay in the financial sector was again 70 percent higher than wages elsewhere in the private sector. A third of the 2009 Princeton graduates who got jobs after graduation went into finance; 6.3 percent took jobs in government.
Then the financial industry blew up, taking out a good chunk of the world economy.
Finance will not be tamed by tweaking the way bankers are paid. But bankers' pay could be structured to discourage wanton risk taking. Similarly, superstar effects are not the sole cause of the stagnant incomes of regular Joes. But the piling of rewards on our superstars is encouraging a race to the top that, if left unabated, could leave very little to strive for in its wake.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In sports as in business, pay has soared at the very top of the scale. Last season, the soccer superstar Cristiano Ronaldo, right, made about 15 times as much as Pele did in 1960, adjusted for inflation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT, AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
RIGHT, PIERRE-PHILIPPE MARCOU/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (BU1)
 President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Glass-Steagall law in the 1930s to separate commercial banking from investment banking. Standing from left are Senator Carter Glass, Senator Duncan Fletcher, Henry Morgenthau Jr. of the Treasury, Jesse Jones and Representative Henry Steagall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); CELEBRITIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SOCCER (89%); POP & ROCK (86%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); SPORTS FANS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); TICKET SALES (64%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%)

PERSON: 50 CENT (79%); CRISTIANO RONALDO (50%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (50%); CHRISTINA AGUILERA (50%); DAVID BECKHAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) MISSOURI, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (88%); BRAZIL (79%); SWEDEN (53%)

TITLE: Price of Everything, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



725 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA INSTITUTES END-OF-LIFE PLAN THAT CAUSED STIR

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When a proposal to encourage end-of-life planning touched off a political storm over ''death panels,'' Democrats dropped it from legislation to overhaul the health care system. But the Obama administration will achieve the same goal by regulation, starting Jan. 1.
Under the new policy, outlined in a Medicare regulation, the government will pay doctors who advise patients on options for end-of-life care, which may include advance directives to forgo aggressive life-sustaining treatment.
Congressional supporters of the new policy, though pleased, have kept quiet. They fear provoking another furor like the one in 2009 when Republicans seized on the idea of end-of-life counseling to argue that the Democrats' bill would allow the government to cut off care for the critically ill. 
The final version of the health care legislation, signed into law by President Obama in March, authorized Medicare coverage of yearly physical examinations, or wellness visits. The new rule says Medicare will cover ''voluntary advance care planning,'' to discuss end-of-life treatment, as part of the annual visit.
Under the rule, doctors can provide information to patients on how to prepare an ''advance directive,'' stating how aggressively they wish to be treated if they are so sick that they cannot make health care decisions for themselves.
While the new law does not mention advance care planning, the Obama administration has been able to achieve its policy goal through the regulation-writing process, a strategy that could become more prevalent in the next two years as the president deals with a strengthened Republican opposition in Congress.
In this case, the administration said research had shown the value of end-of-life planning.
''Advance care planning improves end-of-life care and patient and family satisfaction and reduces stress, anxiety and depression in surviving relatives,'' the administration said in the preamble to the Medicare regulation, quoting research published this year in the British Medical Journal.
The administration also cited research by Dr. Stacy M. Fischer, an assistant professor at the University of Colorado School of Medicine, who found that ''end-of-life discussions between doctor and patient help ensure that one gets the care one wants.'' In this sense, Dr. Fischer said, such consultations ''protect patient autonomy.''
Opponents said the Obama administration was bringing back a procedure that could be used to justify the premature withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment from people with severe illnesses and disabilities.
Section 1233 of the bill passed by the House in November 2009 -- but not included in the final legislation -- allowed Medicare to pay for consultations about advance care planning every five years. In contrast, the new rule allows annual discussions as part of the wellness visit.
Elizabeth D. Wickham, executive director of LifeTree, which describes itself as ''a pro-life Christian educational ministry,'' said she was concerned that end-of-life counseling would encourage patients to forgo or curtail care, thus hastening death.
''The infamous Section 1233 is still alive and kicking,'' Ms. Wickham said. ''Patients will lose the ability to control treatments at the end of life.''
Several Democratic members of Congress, led by Representative Earl Blumenauer of Oregon and Senator John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia, had urged the administration to cover end-of-life planning as a service offered under the Medicare wellness benefit. A national organization of hospice care providers made the same recommendation.
Mr. Blumenauer, the author of the original end-of-life proposal, praised the rule as ''a step in the right direction.''
''It will give people more control over the care they receive,'' Mr. Blumenauer said in an interview. ''It means that doctors and patients can have these conversations in the normal course of business, as part of our health care routine, not as something put off until we are forced to do it.''
After learning of the administration's decision, Mr. Blumenauer's office celebrated ''a quiet victory,'' but urged supporters not to crow about it.
''While we are very happy with the result, we won't be shouting it from the rooftops because we aren't out of the woods yet,'' Mr. Blumenauer's office said in an e-mail in early November to people working with him on the issue. ''This regulation could be modified or reversed, especially if Republican leaders try to use this small provision to perpetuate the 'death panel' myth.''
Moreover, the e-mail said: ''We would ask that you not broadcast this accomplishment out to any of your lists, even if they are 'supporters' -- e-mails can too easily be forwarded.''
The e-mail continued: ''Thus far, it seems that no press or blogs have discovered it, but we will be keeping a close watch and may be calling on you if we need a rapid, targeted response. The longer this goes unnoticed, the better our chances of keeping it.''
In the interview, Mr. Blumenauer said, ''Lies can go viral if people use them for political purposes.''
The proposal for Medicare coverage of advance care planning was omitted from the final health care bill because of the uproar over unsubstantiated claims that it would encourage euthanasia.
Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice-presidential candidate, and Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, led the criticism in the summer of 2009. Ms. Palin said ''Obama's death panel'' would decide who was worthy of health care. Mr. Boehner, who is in line to become speaker, said, ''This provision may start us down a treacherous path toward government-encouraged euthanasia.'' Forced onto the defensive, Mr. Obama said that nothing in the bill would ''pull the plug on grandma.''
A recent poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation suggests that the idea of death panels persists. In the September poll, 30 percent of Americans 65 and older said the new health care law allowed a government panel to make decisions about end-of-life care for people on Medicare. The law has no such provision.
The new policy is included in a huge Medicare regulation setting payment rates for thousands of services including arthroscopy, mastectomy and X-rays.
The rule was issued by Dr. Donald M. Berwick, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and a longtime advocate for better end-of-life care.
''Using unwanted procedures in terminal illness is a form of assault,'' Dr. Berwick has said. ''In economic terms, it is waste. Several techniques, including advance directives and involvement of patients and families in decision-making, have been shown to reduce inappropriate care at the end of life, leading to both lower cost and more humane care.''
Ellen B. Griffith, a spokeswoman for the Medicare agency, said, ''The final health care reform law has no provision for voluntary advance care planning.'' But Ms. Griffith added, under the new rule, such planning ''may be included as an element in both the first and subsequent annual wellness visits, providing an opportunity to periodically review and update the beneficiary's wishes and preferences for his or her medical care.''
Mr. Blumenauer and Mr. Rockefeller said that advance directives would help doctors and nurses provide care in keeping with patients' wishes.
''Early advance care planning is important because a person's ability to make decisions may diminish over time, and he or she may suddenly lose the capability to participate in health care decisions,'' the lawmakers said in a letter to Dr. Berwick in August.
In a recent study of 3,700 people near the end of life, Dr. Maria J. Silveira of the University of Michigan found that many had ''treatable, life-threatening conditions'' but lacked decision-making capacity in their final days. With the new Medicare coverage, doctors can learn a patient's wishes before a crisis occurs.
For example, Dr. Silveira said, she might ask a person with heart disease, ''If you have another heart attack and your heart stops beating, would you want us to try to restart it?'' A patient dying of emphysema might be asked, ''Do you want to go on a breathing machine for the rest of your life?'' And, she said, a patient with incurable cancer might be asked, ''When the time comes, do you want us to use technology to try and delay your death?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATH & DYING (93%); HEALTH CARE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LIVING WILLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); DEPRESSION (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



726 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Surprise Representative Plans Surprises of His Own in Washington

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Joe Walsh's anonymity is dissipating and, by the time it's gone, we may have an answer to an intriguing political question.
If you win in anger, can you govern in anger?
Mr. Walsh was not just a little-noticed congressional candidate in Chicago's northwest suburban 8th District. He was radioactive to most establishment Republicans, who were miffed over his surprise primary victory and gave him scant help and money during the general campaign.
Deemed extreme by Republican honchos, Mr. Walsh -- an unabashed Tea Party member, a business consultant and graduate of the University of Chicago's public policy school -- stunned Melissa Bean, the incumbent moderate Democrat, even though he had been dramatically outspent. 
John Shimkus, a Downstate Republican congressman, jokes that the Republicans won five of their four targeted congressional districts in Illinois. Few imagined a Walsh victory.
''Generally, establishment Republicans have now embraced me, some sheepish, some guilty. I'm now their best friend,'' Mr. Walsh said with a wry smile at a Barrington law firm that is giving him space until he takes office Jan. 5.
He's been to Washington for orientation, and he hired a chief of staff -- a Capitol Hill veteran who has lately been a financial services lobbyist. He has received his three committee assignments: Oversight and Reform, Small Business and Homeland Security.
Mr. Walsh, 48, will get about $1.4 million annually to run his operation and plans as many as three district branches. He'll sleep in his office in Washington, while his family stays here in McHenry. And get this: he's turned down the usual congressional health care, pension and retirement packages.
''I don't think congressmen should get pensions or cushy health care plans,'' he said. His wife is not exhilarated with the latter decision; she has a pre-existing medical condition and is now forced to hunt for a plan.
Mr. Walsh had an initial campaign debt of about $90,000. That soared several fold because of legal bills related to a lengthy recount battle. A New Year's Eve party at the Lakemoor Banquet Hall will raise money for a congressman-elect happy to take checks from lobbyists and political action committees.
''If JPMorgan Chase wants to give me money, fine,'' he said.
It's no surprise that he's unhappy with the tax deal congressional Republicans cut with President Obama. ''We cut taxes, raised spending and contributed to the deficit,'' he said. ''Republicans should have held out for something better.''
His legislative goals are repealing Mr. Obama's health care legislation and seeking major changes in Social Security and Medicare. I asked if reducing the size, scope and power of government is a means to an end or an end in itself.
''An end in itself,'' he said, without pausing. ''I think we were sent to D.C. to cut spending and grow the economy. We have to talk about cutting real programs'' -- and agencies -- ''like the Department of Energy and Department of Education.''
One of the first votes he'll confront is on raising the federal debt ceiling. Many economists warn that voting down an increase would be a mistake, and the House Republican leadership agrees. Mr. Walsh will vote against it. ''On principle and policy, the leadership is wrong,'' he said. ''This is a teachable moment on my part.''
What is government's role? ''Protect my borders, protect Americans on their streets, keep our highways paved and our environment clean, defend us overseas and help those who can't help themselves,'' he said.
So he does support federal aid to those too sick or destitute to find work. He added, ''But we've asked government to take care of too many in the middle class, not those who need it the most.''
When I broached reaching across the political aisle and compromising to get things done, he replied, ''Now is not the time.''
But doesn't history suggest you can win in anger but not govern that way?
''No!'' he said immediately. ''If you put that anger away, you lose that standing. If you believe Obamacare will destroy health care, that's a battle to join.''
And when it comes to dogmatism potentially imperiling self-preservation, the state's biggest Election Day surprise said, and perhaps believably so, ''I'm going to D.C. absolutely prepared to lose in two years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joe Walsh 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); LAWYERS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX RELIEF (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (63%); MEDICARE (60%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN SHIMKUS (58%); MELISSA L BEAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



727 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Trilling Songbirds Clip Their Wings

BYLINE: By DAVID BROWNE

 BODY:
AS symbolic shifts go, two recent events in pop music couldn't have been more illuminating. On Nov. 24 ''Burlesque,'' a big-screen musical starring Christina Aguilera, opened and landed with a thud, both critically and at the box office. On Dec. 2 came the Grammy Award nominations. Among releases up for the album of the year award are those by Lady Gaga and Katy Perry; Ms. Aguilera, who also released an album, ''Bionic,'' in 2010, was ignored.
Such turnover is part of pop's constant process of renewal: out with the old idols, in with the new. But the ground shifted under pop in an even bigger way. As seen and especially heard in ''Burlesque,'' Ms. Aguilera has been one of the foremost practitioners of the overpowering, Category 5 vocal style known as melisma. The female pop stars who have dominated the charts this year rarely opt for that approach. Their ascent makes it clear that melisma has retreated, while pop, which has just wrapped up one of its best years in at least a decade, has benefited from a return to less frilly, less bombastic vocal showcases. 
Although there's nothing simple about it, melisma in its simplest form is a vocal technique in which a series of notes is stretched into one syllable. Its roots can be tracked back to gospel, blues and even Gregorian chant; Ray Charles, Aretha Franklin and Stevie Wonder used it sparingly early in their careers.
But beginning two decades ago, melisma overtook pop in a way it hadn't before. Mariah Carey's debut hit from 1990, ''Vision of Love,'' followed two years later by Whitney Houston's version of ''I Will Always Love You,'' set the bar insanely high for notes stretched louder, longer and knottier than most pop fans had ever heard. A subsequent generation of singers, including Ms. Aguilera, Jennifer Hudson and Beyonce, built their careers around melisma. (Men like Brian McKnight and Tyrese also indulged in it, but women tended to dominate the form.)
That melisma heyday is jarringly invoked on Ms. Carey's current album, ''Merry Christmas II You,'' a collection of seasonal standards and originals. One of the tracks, a rendition of ''O Holy Night'' recorded in 2000, is a reminder of the days when Ms. Carey and her voice were in full melismatic overdrive.
Whether it's because of public fatigue or the advancing ages of its mainstays, who can't quite sandblast the high notes as they once did, those days appear to be over. Ms. Aguilera's ''Bionic,'' along with recent releases by Ms. Carey (''Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel'') and Ms. Houston (''I Look to You''), have sold far below their usual multimillion levels. ''American Idol,'' whose contestants have long been clearly influenced by melisma, is in ratings and buzz decline.
Beyonce and Pink, who embraced melisma early in their careers, have both left it behind. Pink's new compilation, ''Greatest Hits ... So Far!!!,'' is dominated by her rock-leaning rasp, whether she's taking a crack at a ballad (''Dear Mr. President'') or a party anthem (her current single, ''Raise Your Glass''). Although she was fond of elongated syllables while a member of Destiny's Child, Beyonce gradually moved away from brassy displays. Her luminous recent hit ''Halo'' has only a suggestion of melisma. It's telling that her most recent hit, the irresistible dance pop song ''Telephone,'' is a collaboration with Lady Gaga.
Starting with Lady Gaga and Ms. Perry the nonmelisma female performers who have taken over iPods and the radio couldn't be more different vocally. On ''California Gurls'' and ''Teenage Dream,'' her ubiquitous 2010 hits, Ms. Perry opts for short, breathy gulps in her singing. Her voice occasionally glides into an upper register, as on the bridge of ''California Gurls,'' but it mostly aims to convey likability and approachability, not prowess and imperiousness.
As heard on her current single ''We R Who We R'' from her new mini-album, ''Cannibal,'' Kesha has a thin, often computer-manipulated voice that recalls '80s new-wave pop acts. It's often hard to tell when her singing voice ends and the Vocoder processing kicks in.
The technically best singer of the bunch, Lady Gaga, has a deep, mildly nasal delivery that, on hits like ''Alejandro,'' evokes a more tuneful Madonna. Her version of melisma is more visual than aural: her Broadway-inspired stage shows, arresting videos, Warhol-redux costumes and exploding bras are over the top, as opposed to her singing.
What all those singers have in common is a delivery far less virtuosic than the melisma queens of old. (Some, like Taylor Swift, they may not be vocally capable of it either.) None is likely to inspire contestants who will stand before Jennifer Lopez and Steven Tyler on the next season of ''American Idol.'' Rather than wrestling the melodies to the ground, these singers adhere closely to them. The high notes Ms. Perry reaches for on ''Teenage Dream'' are the merest of vocal trills. One of the year's most arresting hooks, Rihanna's contribution to Eminem's ''Love the Way You Lie,'' conveys sadness and regret in a beautifully understated manner devoid of vibrato.
What makes singles like ''Telephone'' and ''Alejandro,'' ''California Gurls'' and Kesha's ''Tik Tok'' and ''Your Love Is My Drug'' stand out aren't the voices at their core. It's the combination of vocal personality, arrangement, hook and songcraft -- the eternal, enduring ingredients of classic pop. Even their voices are turned into hooks: one of the most memorable parts of ''Telephone'' is the moment Lady Gaga's voice imitates a busy signal.
Those songs were also central to this year's invigorating resurgence of pop. From the teen-bop star Justin Bieber to the casts of ''Glee'' and the boy-band TV series ''Big Time Rush,'' dance-infused pop singles made a triumphant comeback in 2010. Beats and melodies once again became the stars -- a welcome reprieve from the melisma era, when emphasis shifted from songwriting to Olympic-style displays of lung power. To test the damaging influence of melisma, one need only try to hum one of Ms. Carey's vaporous hits all the way through; it's virtually impossible.
Melisma may have also run its cultural course. Ms. Carey, Ms. Houston and Ms. Aguilera, to name its three main champions, are most associated with the period from the late '80s through the late '90s: an era now largely associated with money, ostentation and American power, especially during the latter half of the '90s. Their brawny vocal approach and lush, widescreen records reflected their times as much as the Clinton-era Wall Street boom.
Pop's new divas may not be able to ascend to vocal heights the way Ms. Aguilera still can in ''Burlesque.'' But in many ways they're better suited for the post-crash economy. Every so often even pop music has to downsize.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Melisma -- the vocal technique of packing a series of notes into one syllable -- has long been championed by singers like Mariah Carey, left. But a new generation of pop stars, including Kesha, right, and Rhianna, opt for a less daunting technical virtuosity. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KE.MAZUR/WIREIMAGE
CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR25)
 Katy Perry, pictured at the recent Z100 Jingle Ball, eschews ostentation, opting for short, breathy gulps in her singing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); BIRDS (79%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%)

PERSON: CHRISTINA AGUILERA (90%); MARIAH CAREY (89%); WHITNEY HOUSTON (79%); LADY GAGA (58%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%) TEXAS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010



728 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: In Town's Uranium Mill Plan, The Seeds of a National Debate

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
NATURITA, Colo. -- The future of nuclear power in America is back on the table, with all its vast implications, as global warming revives the search for energy sources that produce less greenhouse gas.
But in this depressed corner of western Colorado -- one of the first places in the world that uranium, nuclear energy's primary fuel, was ever dug from the ground in industrial scale -- the debate is both simpler and more complicated. A proposal for a new mill to process uranium ore, which would lead to the opening of long-shuttered mines in Colorado and Utah, has brought global and local concerns into collision -- jobs, health, class-consciousness and historical memory among them -- in ways that suggest, if the pattern here holds, a bitter national debate to come.
Telluride, the rich ski town an hour away by car and a universe apart in terms of money and clout, has emerged as a main base of opposition to the proposed mill, called Pinon Ridge, which would be the first new uranium-processing facility in the United States in more than 25 years if it is approved by Colorado regulators next month.
To residents here like Michelle Mathews, the fact that many opponents of the mill hail from Telluride is a crucial strike against their arguments. 
''People from Telluride don't have any business around here,'' said Ms. Mathews, 31, who works as a school janitor and ardently supports the idea of bringing back uranium jobs. ''Not everyone wants to drive to Telluride to clean hotel rooms.''
Here in Naturita and the cluster of tiny communities in and around the Paradox Valley, where the mill could be built (cumulative population about 2,000), people disagree not just about the wisdom of the mill, but about whether uranium, laid down here in tufts of volcanic ash more than 100 million years ago, was a blessing or a curse. Minerals found in association with uranium, especially vanadium, which is used in hardening steel, sparked the first real rush in the 1930s; uranium for bombs and energy then followed in a stuttering pattern of boom and bust into the 1980s, when the nation's nuclear energy program mostly went into mothballs.
Opponents say that the nostalgia many residents here cherish about the boom years is the product of willful forgetfulness about the well-documented cancer deaths and environmental destruction the uranium mines produced. They also say that the mill company is cynically exploiting the idea of a return to simpler times.
''They say it's going to be different this time around,'' said Craig Pirazzi, a carpenter who moved to the Naturita area from Telluride a few years ago and is now a member of the Paradox Valley Sustainability Association, which opposes the mill. ''But our opposition to this proposal is based on the performance of historic uranium mining, because that's all we have to go on -- and that record is not good.''
Supporters, meanwhile, say that the opponents of Pinon Ridge are guilty of promulgating ignorant fears about something they do not understand.
Even the question of who has a right to speak up has become a point of contention. Is the mill purely a local concern in a sparsely populated area, or a broader regional issue that would affect people much farther away, through, say, radioactive dust particles that might be thrown aloft?
''They're saying not in my backyard -- now how big is their backyard?'' said George Glasier, a local rancher and investor who founded Energy Fuels, the company proposing the mill, and is now a stockholder and consultant. Energy Fuels is a publicly traded company based in Canada; a United States subsidiary would operate the mill.
A study commissioned by Sheep Mountain Alliance, the main opposition group, of which Mr. Pirazzi is also a member, concludes that the backyard for Pinon Ridge would in fact be huge -- far bigger than proponents suggest. The now-closed uranium mines that would supply the $175 million mill, company officials have said, extend out 100 miles or so, which means that delivery trucks would travel on narrow country roads, stirring up dust that the study said could end up in the snowpack and water supply all over the region.
''In one aspect we're being nimby's by saying we will be affected by the negative aspects of this,'' Mr. Pirazzi said. ''But that is a valid concern -- our health, our air, our water is going to be affected by it, and we have every right to protect our property values and our health.''
A key underlying dynamic of the discussion is that this area has often been out of sync with the national economy.
When much of the rest of the nation was suffering in the Great Depression in the 1930s, for example, miners and their families here prospered as the military bought vanadium.
Another boom came in the 1950s, during the cold war, in uranium for bombs. The economy surged again in the 1970s as the energy crisis renewed enthusiasm for nuclear power -- a period that ended in tears with reactor disasters at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania in 1979 and Chernobyl in Ukraine in 1986.
The crash after that was utter and profound, as plans for reactor plants all over the country were canceled. Mines and mills across the West, seeing demand for nuclear fuel dry up, closed down as well. Today only one uranium mill in the United States is fully operational, in Blanding, Utah.
Bust times, in turn, put the local economy even more in thrall to Telluride, which began building out as a ski town in the 1980s.
''There were probably 300 men going to Telluride to do carpentry,'' said David Helkey, 50, a mechanic who commuted to Telluride for years.
Postrecession, Telluride's construction-driven second-home market is not what it was either, and for many residents, that has made the mill and the idea of reopened mines all the more attractive.
''Our economy just totally tanked,'' Mr. Helkey said.
Other residents here are fatalistic. Hazards or no, they say, uranium is the hand that geology dealt this area. Most supporters of the mill also say they believe officials from Energy Fuels who say that tighter regulation would make everything different.
''It's safer now,'' said Sherri Ross, who works the front desk at the Ray Motel in Naturita, and spent her early childhood in Uravan, a mill town about 15 miles from here that was so contaminated with radiation by the 1980s, when the mill closed, that the whole town was razed and mostly entombed. Ms. Ross, 51, said her father died of cancer that she attributes partly to radioactive dust exposure -- and also to his smoking -- but wholeheartedly supports uranium's return.
The roughly 300 new jobs that Energy Fuels officials project, mostly in reopened mines, would give the region an economic lease on life, she said.
Other veterans of uranium's past are wary, by dint of experience.
Reed Hayes, 73, said he is still haunted by the night in July 1967, when he was working at a mill in Moab, Utah, and fell off a catwalk into a caustic vat of refined uranium pellets, called yellowcake, and acid. He quit a month later, but has suffered ever since, he said, with rashes on various parts of his body, including sometimes even inside his mouth.
''We were told that the uranium would never hurt us,'' said Mr. Hayes, who has struggled for years to get compensation. ''But I've learned a whole lot about it -- that it's hurt a lot of people and killed a lot of people.''
And it also changed every community it touched. Moab was once prime peach-growing country, for example -- about 40,000 trees, including 2,000 owned by Mr. Hayes's father, graced the town. It all went in the early 1950s as the orchards were chopped down to house uranium workers.
Gesturing to the three stately peach trees growing behind his house in the Paradox Valley, Mr. Hayes said, ''We raised Elbertas. That's what I have here, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reminders of the perils of uranium are evident in Colorado. (A1)
Craig Pirazzi, an opponent of plans for the mill in Colorado, said, ''Our health, our air, our water is going to be affected by it.''
''Now how big is their backyard?'' said George Glasier, who founded Energy Fuels, the company proposing the mill.
 Nucla, Colo., is among the towns affected by the boom-and-bust cycle of the uranium economy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URANIUM MINING (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); APPROVALS (70%); MINES & MINING (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); CANCER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



729 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: The Finite World

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Oil is back above $90 a barrel. Copper and cotton have hit record highs. Wheat and corn prices are way up. Over all, world commodity prices have risen by a quarter in the past six months.
So what's the meaning of this surge?
Is it speculation run amok? Is it the result of excessive money creation, a harbinger of runaway inflation just around the corner? No and no. 
What the commodity markets are telling us is that we're living in a finite world, in which the rapid growth of emerging economies is placing pressure on limited supplies of raw materials, pushing up their prices. And America is, for the most part, just a bystander in this story.
Some background: The last time the prices of oil and other commodities were this high, two and a half years ago, many commentators dismissed the price spike as an aberration driven by speculators. And they claimed vindication when commodity prices plunged in the second half of 2008.
But that price collapse coincided with a severe global recession, which led to a sharp fall in demand for raw materials. The big test would come when the world economy recovered. Would raw materials once again become expensive?
Well, it still feels like a recession in America. But thanks to growth in developing nations, world industrial production recently passed its previous peak -- and, sure enough, commodity prices are surging again.
This doesn't necessarily mean that speculation played no role in 2007-2008. Nor should we reject the notion that speculation is playing some role in current prices; for example, who is that mystery investor who has bought up much of the world's copper supply? But the fact that world economic recovery has also brought a recovery in commodity prices strongly suggests that recent price fluctuations mainly reflect fundamental factors.
What about commodity prices as a harbinger of inflation? Many commentators on the right have been predicting for years that the Federal Reserve, by printing lots of money -- it's not actually doing that, but that's the accusation -- is setting us up for severe inflation. Stagflation is coming, declared Representative Paul Ryan in February 2009; Glenn Beck has been warning about imminent hyperinflation since 2008.
Yet inflation has remained low. What's an inflation worrier to do?
One response has been a proliferation of conspiracy theories, of claims that the government is suppressing the truth about rising prices. But lately many on the right have seized on rising commodity prices as proof that they were right all along, as a sign of high overall inflation just around the corner.
You do have to wonder what these people were thinking two years ago, when raw material prices were plunging. If the commodity-price rise of the past six months heralds runaway inflation, why didn't the 50 percent decline in the second half of 2008 herald runaway deflation?
Inconsistency aside, however, the big problem with those blaming the Fed for rising commodity prices is that they're suffering from delusions of U.S. economic grandeur. For commodity prices are set globally, and what America does just isn't that important a factor.
In particular, today, as in 2007-2008, the primary driving force behind rising commodity prices isn't demand from the United States. It's demand from China and other emerging economies. As more and more people in formerly poor nations are entering the global middle class, they're beginning to drive cars and eat meat, placing growing pressure on world oil and food supplies.
And those supplies aren't keeping pace. Conventional oil production has been flat for four years; in that sense, at least, peak oil has arrived. True, alternative sources, like oil from Canada's tar sands, have continued to grow. But these alternative sources come at relatively high cost, both monetary and environmental.
Also, over the past year, extreme weather -- especially severe heat and drought in some important agricultural regions -- played an important role in driving up food prices. And, yes, there's every reason to believe that climate change is making such weather episodes more common.
So what are the implications of the recent rise in commodity prices? It is, as I said, a sign that we're living in a finite world, one in which resource constraints are becoming increasingly binding. This won't bring an end to economic growth, let alone a descent into Mad Max-style collapse. It will require that we gradually change the way we live, adapting our economy and our lifestyles to the reality of more expensive resources.
But that's for the future. Right now, rising commodity prices are basically the result of global recovery. They have no bearing, one way or another, on U.S. monetary policy. For this is a global story; at a fundamental level, it's not about us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (50%); GLENN BECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



730 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: The Repeal Amendment

 BODY:
With public attention focused on taxes, the deficit, gays in the military and nuclear arms reduction, little attention has been paid, so far, to the Tea Party's most far-reaching move to remake American governance. It is contained within a bill, called the repeal amendment, that was introduced in Congress after the election. The bill won the support of the incoming House majority leader, Eric Cantor, and is supported by legislative leaders in 12 states. 
The proposal is sweeping, expressing with bold simplicity the view of the Tea Party and others that the federal government's influence is far too broad. It would give state legislatures the power to veto any federal law or regulation if two-thirds of the legislatures approved.
The chances of the proposal becoming the Constitution's 28th Amendment are exceedingly low. But it helps explain further the anger-fueled, myth-based politics of the populist new right. It also highlights the absence of a strong counterforce in American politics.
With the Equal Rights Amendment as a model, it demonstrates the scope of the Tea Party's ambition to drive politics and law far to the right. The E.R.A. failed to win passage, but it influenced Congress and the courts in equalizing the law's treatment of gender.
Under the Tea Party proposal, the states would have much greater power than the president to veto federal laws. Because the amendment includes no limit on the time in which states could exercise their veto, it would cast a long shadow over any program under federal law.
Because it focuses on giving states power to veto (e.g., taxes) without their shouldering responsibility for asserting it (trimming appropriations because of lost tax revenue), the unintended consequences would likely be at least as important as the intended.
These flaws make the proposed amendment self-defeating, but they are far less significant than the mistaken vision of federalism on which it rests. Its foundation is that the United States defined in the Constitution are a set of decentralized sovereignties where personal responsibility, private property and a laissez-faire economy should reign. In this vision, the federal government is an intrusive parent.
The error that matters most here is about the Constitution's history. America's fundamental law holds competing elements, some constraining the national government, others energizing it. But the government the Constitution shaped was founded to create a sum greater than the parts, to promote economic development that would lift the fortunes of the American people.
In past economic crises, populist fervor has been for expanding the power of the national government to address America's pressing needs. Pleas for making good the nation's commitment to equality and welfare have been as loud as those for liberty. Now the many who are struggling have no progressive champion. The left have ceded the field to the Tea Party and, in doing so, allowed it to make history. It is building political power by selling the promise of a return to a mythic past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VETO (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



731 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1848 words

HEADLINE: Despite Vows of Glory, Glimpses of a Poor, Isolated North Korea

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE

 BODY:
PYONGYANG, North Korea -- Girls' soccer teams waged a fierce battle outside a huge gymnasium. Two young brides, one resplendent in a white gown and the other in deep pink, married sweethearts in a snowy square. Parents pulled toddlers on plastic sleds. Pedestrians lined up at kiosks to buy baked sweet potatoes and pancakes.
A six-day visit to Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, that ended last Tuesday offered carefully monitored glimpses of a land where reality and fantasy are routinely conflated. While there were no obvious signs of impending collapse or political intrigue swirling around the fate of North Korea's ailing leader, the visit offered hints of why the North might be particularly eager now to resume international aid and trade.
For nearly four years, an unrelenting barrage of government propaganda has promised that North Korea will be strong and prosperous by 2012, the centennial of the birth of Kim Il-sung, the nation's founder and the father of the current leader, Kim Jong-il. 
That is now 18 months away. And prosperous is the last word one would use to describe North Korea's shuttered factories, skimpy harvests and stunted children.
Perhaps with that deadline in mind, North Korea's leaders last week made what might be a bid to reduce their isolation. They offered concessions that could help open up and limit the country's increasingly sophisticated nuclear program.
And after promising to retaliate militarily should South Korea renew artillery drills near disputed waters, they have reacted -- so far -- only with words. But North Korea has made conciliatory gestures before, to extract aid at times of economic need or political transition, only to turn hostile later.
Of the nation's 24 million citizens, the three million in Pyongyang are the most privileged. North Koreans need a special permit to live or come here. Still, signs of hardship are evident.
Commuters crammed into decrepit electric buses, packed as tightly as boxes of toothpicks. Pedestrians bowed beneath huge bundles strapped to their backs, apparently stuffed with goods for trade in private markets that have eclipsed the ill-supplied state stores. Most were women; one collapsed on the sidewalk under the weight of her load.
Economists say coal production is, at best, half that of two decades ago, and Pyongyang has regular power shortages. At the elite Foreign Language Revolution School, students warmed themselves around stoves fed by coal or wood. In much of the city, residents report only a few hours of electricity daily.
New apartment buildings -- apparently for officials -- grace the city center. But the pyramid-shaped, 105-story Ryugyong Hotel remains a shell nearly 25 years after construction began. While it was recently sheathed in glass, other abandoned construction projects scar roads outside the city.
Elsewhere, especially in northern provinces, residents report that child beggars haunt street markets, families scavenge hillsides for sprouts and mushrooms and workers at state enterprises receive nominal salaries, at best. Workers in Pyongyang are said to be much better compensated.
Signs of that relative good fortune were evident on Pyongyang's streets. Some pedestrians chatted on cellphones, something unknown just two years ago. Koryolink, a cellphone network controlled by an Egyptian firm, has 310,000 North Korean subscribers. North Koreans can call only one another, but the network is expanding fast. Residents report more cars and traffic lights than three years ago, although traffic remains sparse.
Most pedestrians appeared well fed. Although malnutrition has improved in the past decade, one in three North Korean children is stunted, and nearly one in five is underweight, according to the World Food Program. Residents of the Pyongyang area are the nation's best nourished.
North Korea's isolation is striking from the moment of arrival at Pyongyang's utilitarian airport. With a 40-plane, primarily Russian-made fleet, Air Koryo schedules just two daily outbound flights, to Beijing and to Vladivostok in far eastern Russia. Although visitors were allowed to bring laptops, inspectors immediately confiscated cellphones.
Journalists are rarely granted visas to North Korea, one of the world's most secretive and militaristic societies. The government allowed two journalists to accompany Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a former ambassador to the United Nations, on a private mission to meet senior officials in Pyongyang.
Mr. Richardson sought to reduce the threat of conflict between North and South Korea and to persuade the North to abandon its aggressive behavior if it wants outside assistance.
Visiting Pyongyang as an outsider is a bit like entering a parallel reality. Official escorts stuck to visitors like Velcro. The rules were clear: No interviews without permission. No exploring beyond the hotel parking lot.
Everyone was closely watched, with tactics reminiscent of a bad cold war spy movie. Opposite a journalist's spacious room at the mostly empty Potonggang Hotel, men with briefcases left keys dangling in doors and appeared to rotate shifts. Other guests warned that dining room tables were bugged and that a dark, out-of-place wall panel was in fact a two-way mirror. Calls from the United States were blocked. Outgoing overseas calls cost $8.27 a minute.
Some events seemed obviously staged. On a dazzlingly sunny Saturday, a crowd packed the auditorium of Pyongyang's ornate central library for a lecture on the life of Kim Jong-il's mother. Nearly every seat in the reading room was also taken. When one reader nodded off, a watchful monitor quickly poked him.
But the Foreign Ministry also showed surprising flexibility at times, allowing visits to the foreign language school, a crowded subway station and a silk-thread factory. Long-time visitors say they see a growing openness to journalists.
State stores were off limits, either because barren shelves hinted at economic difficulties or because only lucky government-coupon holders could take advantage of their artificially low prices. Window-shopping only, journalists were warned.
Better-stocked but costlier private markets were also out of bounds. Hundreds have sprung up nationwide, but officials play down their importance because they flout the socialist credo.
One, the huge, arch-roofed Unification Market in Pyongyang, sports row after row of stalls. Merchants say three-fourths of the wares come from China.
With paltry harvests, inflation of food prices is a chronic problem. Last month, the World Food Program reported that at that market a kilogram of rice, or 2.2 pounds, cost $10, about 10 times the price in Beijing. By the agency's rough estimates, a typical household's income would allow one person to eat two and a half cups of rice a day, assuming he had no other expenses.
North Koreans pride themselves on juche, or self-reliance, and government officials greeted Mr. Richardson with declarations of a thriving society.
''Everything is going well,'' Vice President Kim Yong-dae assured the governor before reporters were shooed out of a meeting. ''Thanks to our powerful military deterrence,'' he said, ''we can now concentrate on development'' and achieve prosperity by 2012.
But privately, Mr. Richardson said, officials acknowledge that the country is desperate for fuel, food and an easing of economic sanctions imposed after North Korea's missile and nuclear tests, beginning roughly five years ago. Some North Korea analysts warn that unless aid and trade resume, the North may raise cash by selling nuclear technology and materials to Iran, Syria or others -- if it has not already.
Interviews in the past six months with nearly 20 North Koreans who recently left for China, including several Communist Party members, suggest that faith in the leadership's economic policies is shaken, if not lost. North Koreans know well that South Koreans live much better, while their own government demands constant sacrifice.
A few criticize the military's pre-eminence, and hope that Kim Jong-un, Kim Jong-il's son and chosen successor, will shift policy. ''I heard a rumor that he said we have more bullets than food. So maybe he will be a good leader and feed the people,'' one 59-year-old North Korean trader said, hopefully, in an interview last month in China.
But most seemed to support Kim Jong-il's 15-year-old ''military-first'' policies. They regard the United States as an implacable enemy and South Korea as an American tool, barred by Washington from uniting with the North. They insist that Japan's 35-year occupation of the peninsula, followed by the Korean War, proves the need for an invincible defense.
Billboards, patriotic songs, newspapers and movies continually reinforce that message. Every North Korean man spends up to 10 years in the military. Soldiers were spotted helping out at a Pyongyang construction site and heading through a nearby village toting shovels as a loudspeaker mounted on a tree blared patriotic messages.
''Even if we don't eat, we give the military everything we can,'' said a former humanities professor from the northern city of Chongjin, who now works as a maid in China but plans to return home. ''Nuclear weapons mean we cannot be invaded. I really want to say that. We cannot be touched.''
At one Pyongyang subway stop, called Prosperity Station, commuters read news on the threat of military conflict with South Korea from newspaper pages posted on a stand-up carousel. ''We want peace,'' one man declared passionately. ''But we are not afraid of war. We are ready for anything.''
Such statements aside, he and other residents were surprisingly friendly to journalists. So were government escorts. The six-day visit ended with a cognac-fueled celebration in the hotel's karaoke bar in which the North Koreans belted out ''You Are My Destiny'' and Korean love songs.
The days were marked by odes to Kim Jong-il. Choi Hyok, 43, the rail-thin chief engineer at the Kim Jong-suk Silk Factory, which is named after the chairman's mother, recalled Kim Jong-il's visit in January 2009. ''I felt like I had come out of the darkness and into the light,'' he said.
Nam Dae-yong, 20, a geology student at Kim Il-sung University, marveled at 2,000 new desktop computers installed in April. ''This is a very good present from Chairman Kim Jong-il,'' she said.
The university is a showpiece. So is the silk factory, with its well-oiled machinery and 2,000 women at work in blue, pink and green scarves. Economists estimate that three of four North Korean factories are idle, lacking power and materials.
''Everyone knows the environment,'' the former humanities professor said of her university in Chongjin. ''No electricity, no light, no heat. The government doesn't give anything, so we have to ask the parents for money.''
''People talk a lot about 2012, how we will become a strong and prosperous country,'' one 45-year-old trader from Hwanghae Province told the advocacy group Human Rights Watch last month. ''If we find a gold mine, yes, I guess it would happen.''
''Nobody really believes it,'' he said. ''We just get by.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A wedding party in a snowy park in Pyongyang, whose residents are the nation's most privileged. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHARON LaFRANIERE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Maj. Gen. Pak Rim-su of North Korea, foreground, with Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico during his visit to Pyongyang. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GAY DILLINGHAM) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); FAMILY (77%); POWER FAILURES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); SOCCER (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (63%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%); COAL INDUSTRY (60%); COAL MINING (60%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (59%); BILL RICHARDSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



732 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: HURDLES EMERGE IN RISING EFFORT TO RATE TEACHERS

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
For the past three years, Katie Ward and Melanie McIver have worked as a team at Public School 321 in Park Slope, Brooklyn, teaching a fourth-grade class. But on the reports that rank the city's teachers based on their students' standardized test scores, Ms. Ward's name is nowhere to be found.
''I feel as though I don't exist,'' she said last Monday, looking up from playing a vocabulary game with her students.
Down the hall, Deirdre Corcoran, a fifth-grade teacher, received a ranking for a year when she was out on child-care leave. In three other classrooms at this highly ranked school, fourth-grade teachers were ranked among the worst in the city at teaching math, even though their students' average score on the state math exam was close to four, the highest score. 
''If I thought they gave accurate information, I would take them more seriously,'' the principal of P.S. 321, Elizabeth Phillips, said about the rankings. ''But some of my best teachers have the absolute worst scores,'' she said, adding that she had based her assessment of those teachers on ''classroom observations, talking to the children and the number of parents begging me to put their kids in their classes.''
It is becoming common practice nationally to rank teachers for their effectiveness, or value added, a measure that is defined as how much a teacher contributes to student progress on standardized tests. The practice was strongly supported by President Obama's education grant competition, Race to the Top, and large school districts, including those in Houston, Dallas, Denver, Minneapolis and Washington, have begun to use a form of it.
But the experience in New York City shows just how difficult it can be to come up with a system that gains acceptance as being fair and accurate. The rankings are based on an algorithm that few other than statisticians can understand, and on tests that the state has said were too narrow and predictable. Most teachers' scores fall somewhere in a wide range, with perfection statistically impossible. And the system has also suffered from the everyday problems inherent in managing busy urban schools, like the challenge of using old files and computer databases to ensure that the right teachers are matched to the right students.
All of this was not as important when the teacher rankings were an internal matter that principals could choose to heed or ignore. City officials had pledged to the teachers' union that the rankings would not be used in the evaluation of teachers and that they would resist releasing them to the public.
But over the past several months, the system of teacher rankings has been catapulted to one of the most contentious issues facing the city's 80,000-member teaching force. A new state law, passed this year to help New York win Race to the Top money, pledges that by 2013, 25 percent of a teacher's evaluation be based on a value-added system. The city has begun urging principals to consider rankings when deciding whether to grant tenure. And the city now supports the release of the data to the 12 media organizations, including The New York Times, that have requested it.
The departing schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein, defended the release of the rankings in an e-mail to school staff members, acknowledging that they had limitations but calling them ''the fairest systemwide way we have to assess the real impact of teachers on student learning.''
''For too long,'' Mr. Klein wrote, ''parents have been left out of the equation, left to pray each year that the teacher greeting their children on the first day of school is truly great, but with no real knowledge of whether that is the case, and with no recourse if it's not.''
But the United Federation of Teachers, the city's teachers' union, has sued to keep names in the rankings private, arguing that the data is flawed and would result in unnecessary harm to the reputation of teachers. The matter is now before Justice Cynthia Kern of State Supreme Court in Manhattan.
New York City began ranking teachers in the 2007-8 school year as part of a pilot project intended to improve classroom instruction. The project, which cost $1.3 million, with an additional $2.3 million budgeted over the next 18 months, was expanded in the 2008-9 school year to give rankings to more than 12,000 fourth- through eighth-grade teachers.
In New York City, a curve dictates that each year 50 percent of teachers will receive ''average'' rankings, 20 percent each ''above average'' and ''below average,'' and 5 percent each ''high'' and ''low.'' Teachers get separate rankings for math and English.
In support of the model, Douglas Staiger, an economics professor at Dartmouth College, cites research showing that if a teacher receives a high-performing score one year, there is a modest likelihood that he or she will receive a high-performing score the following year. The correlation is about 0.3, he said, with 1 being perfect, and 0 being no correlation. This means that about one-third of teachers ranked in the top 25 percent would appear among the top quarter of teachers the next year.
While that year-to-year link may seem low, in the budding and messy exercise of trying to quantify what makes students learn, it is one of the strongest predictors of future student performance, along with the reduction of class size. That means that, on average, students placed for a year with a high-value-added teacher will do better than those placed with a low-value-added teacher. Dr. Staiger placed the improvement at about three percentile points on a typical standardized test.
''This information is useful but has to be used with caution,'' he said. ''It's that middle ground. It's not useless, but it's not perfect.''
Yet a promising correlation for groups of teachers on the average may be of little help to the individual teacher, who faces, at least for the near future, a notable chance of being misjudged by the ranking system, particularly when it is based on only a few years of scores. One national study published in July by Mathematica Policy Research, conducted for the Department of Education, found that with one year of data, a teacher was likely to be misclassified 35 percent of the time. With three years of data, the error rate was 25 percent. With 10 years of data, the error rate dropped to 12 percent. The city has four years of data.
The most extensive independent study of New York's teacher rankings found similar variability. In math, about a quarter of the lowest-ranking teachers in 2007 ended up among the highest-ranking teachers in 2008. In English, most low performers in 2007 did not remain low performers the next year, said Sean P. Corcoran, the author of the study for the Annenberg Institute for School Reform, who is an assistant professor of educational economics at New York University.
The high margin of error for most scores, something the city refers to as the confidence interval, is another source of uncertainty, Dr. Corcoran said. In math, judging a teacher over three years, the average confidence interval was 34 points, meaning a city teacher who was ranked in the 63rd percentile actually had a score anywhere between the 46th and 80th percentiles, with the 63rd percentile as the most likely score. Even then, the ranking is only 95 percent certain. The result is that half of the city's ranked teachers were statistically indistinguishable.
''The issue is when you try to take this down to the level of the individual teacher, you get very little information,'' Dr. Corcoran said. The only rankings that people can put any stock in, he said, are those that are ''consistently high or low,'' but even those are imperfect.
''So if you have a teacher consistently in the top 10 percent,'' he said, ''the chances are she is doing something right, and a teacher in the bottom 10 percent needs some attention. Everything in between, you really know nothing.''
In New York, the rankings face an additional set of issues. The state tests on which they were based became, over time, too predictable and easy to pass, and this summer the state began to toughen standards. Daniel Koretz, a Harvard professor whose research helped persuade the state to toughen standards, said that as a result it was impossible to know whether rising scores in a classroom were due to inappropriate test preparation or gains in real learning. Rankings that include the tougher standards will not be available until the next academic year.
''It would make sense to wait until the problems with the state test are sorted out, because we are going to get it wrong a lot of the time,'' Dr. Koretz said.
City officials defended using the state tests as a basis for the rankings, saying that they remained predictive of other outcomes, like graduation rates. Echoing Dr. Corcoran, the officials said they were most interested in identifying teachers at the extremes. ''We have read the studies on it, and it is the best quantitative method that we have,'' said John White, a deputy chancellor. ''When used in concert with other pieces of information, it can help us judge teacher effectiveness.''
Beyond the formulas and tests, individual errors -- like the one that led Ms. Ward to be left out altogether -- have generated controversy. The teachers' union claims that it has found at least 200 such errors, including teachers' getting rankings for subjects they did not teach (sometimes they did well, sometimes poorly). Mr. White would not provide an estimate for the error rate, but noted that principals had 18 months to correct mistakes in class lists, starting from when the scores were first distributed.
Mr. White said on Tuesday that before the next round of rankings was released, teachers would be able to review class lists to verify which students they taught, a practice that generally did not happen in the past. Douglas N. Harris, an economist affiliated with the center at the University of Wisconsin that produces the city's rankings, called the science behind them promising, and said that they had jump-started a wider effort to come up with better measures of teacher performance, which was long overdue.
But Dr. Harris urged caution in reading too much into the early crop of rankings, and added, ''As a general rule, you should be worried when the people who are producing something are the ones who are most worried about using it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Melanie McIver, a teacher at Public School 321 in Park Slope, Brooklyn, with Elizabeth Phillips, background, the school principal. Both women have dealt with issues related to the city's system of ranking teachers, which is at the heart of a lawsuit in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. ''If I thought they gave accurate information, I would take them more seriously,'' Ms. Phillips said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RANKINGS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); CITIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); FAMILY LEAVE (69%); CHILD CARE (69%); LEGISLATION (64%); SUPREME COURTS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (68%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



733 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-CHART; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: States of Conflict: An Update

BYLINE: By IAN LIVINGSTON, HEATHER MESSERA, MICHAEL E. O'HANLON and AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
MICHAEL E. O'HANLON, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, and IAN LIVINGSTON and HEATHER MESSERA, researchers at Brookings.

 BODY:
IT is fairly straightforward to summarize the past year in Iraq and Pakistan, but a more complicated matter for Afghanistan.
This was the year of two big developments in Iraq: the major reduction in American combat forces and a protracted election in which voting in March was followed by a nine-month delay in forming a new government. Despite the political confusion, violence did not escalate, and the economy continued to make slow progress. Still, Iraq cannot afford as much stalemate in the coming year as it experienced in 2010, and the new government will need to deliver security, public services and economic growth. 
Pakistan had a rougher year. The summer floods may have displaced more people than any other natural catastrophe in history. The good news is that the government's war against the Pakistani Taliban showed some progress, if not in reducing overall violence levels then at least in terms of establishing greater control over what had been insurgent strongholds.
Regrettably, however, Pakistan's level of cooperation with the United States against Afghan extremist groups did not show measurable progress in 2010 and may even have slipped somewhat, despite the increase in effective American drone strikes in the tribal areas. Pakistan's civilian government continued to lose ground at home politically as well.
Afghanistan saw the completion of the American and NATO troop surges that were the focal point of President Obama's December 2009 policy decision. Afghan security forces grew both in number and quality, and NATO clarified its plan to keep partnering with them through 2014. And while September's parliamentary elections were marred by fraud, this time it was primarily Afghans who held other Afghans accountable in the aftermath -- demonstrating some fledgling aspects of a working democratic system.
Kabul and its environs are reasonably secure and under the general control of Afghan Army and police forces, not NATO troops. But the insurgents have proved resilient, as indicated by trends in violence. Extremist sanctuaries in Pakistan remain a major problem despite Washington's increased aid to that country. And corruption in the Kabul government remains endemic. In sum, the war's basic trajectory remains unclear.

GRAPHIC: CHART (CHART BY AMY UNIKEWICZ OF JELLYREVER GRAPHIC DESIGN IN SOUTH NORWALK, CONN.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ARMIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); DISPLACED PERSONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); CORRUPTION (64%); ARMED FORCES (62%); POLICE FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



734 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: TALIBAN FIGHTERS APPEAR QUIETED IN AFGHANISTAN

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT; Elisabeth Bumiller and Thom Shanker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The deadliest group of Taliban fighters in Afghanistan has not conducted a complex large-scale attack in the capital city of Kabul for seven months, its momentum stymied as elite American-led commandos have escalated raids against the militants' bomb makers and logisticians.
But in a testament to the resiliency of the fighters, the so-called Haqqani network, and a nod to the fragility of the allied gains, the White House is not trumpeting this assessment. Instead, it is tucked into a classified portion of the Obama administration's year-end review of its Afghanistan war strategy, and senior American officials speak of it in cautious terms, as if not wanting to jinx the positive trend.
That is because even in its weakened state, the network remains the most formidable enemy that American troops face in Afghanistan, and the group is showing signs of adapting its tactics and shifting its combatants to counter the allied strategy, American commanders say.
''They're financed better, they're better trained and they're the ones who bring in the higher-end I.E.D.'s,'' said Maj. Gen. John F. Campbell, the top allied commander in eastern Afghanistan, referring to improvised explosive devices, or homemade bombs, which the Haqqanis have employed with lethal efficiency in the past several years. 
In many ways, much of the war in Afghanistan, particularly in the rugged eastern part, is a war against the Haqqani family, whose patriarch, Jalaluddin Haqqani, was a legendary guerrilla fighter in the Central Intelligence Agency-backed campaign to oust the Soviets from Afghanistan in the 1980s. His son Sirajuddin now runs the group's daily operations from his haven in Pakistan, and he has made aggressive efforts to recruit foreign fighters from the Persian Gulf and elsewhere in Central Asia.
The Haqqani network is considered a part of the Afghan Taliban, and is a key ally and protector of Al Qaeda's top leadership, whose members are believed to be hiding in Pakistan's remote border regions. American and other Western intelligence officials believe that Pakistan's powerful spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate, or ISI, shields the Haqqanis in exchange for the network's attacks against Pakistan's archrival, India, in Afghanistan.
American intelligence officials say that the Haqqani network planned the attacks in 2008 in Kabul against the Serena Hotel and the Indian Embassy. It has also been linked to the suicide bombing of a C.I.A. outpost in Khost last December, and has held an American soldier, Pfc. Bowe R. Bergdahl, since he was kidnapped after walking off his Army base in Paktika Province in June 2009. The Haqqanis finance their operations with timber smuggling, kidnapping ransoms and donations from wealthy Persian Gulf individuals, intelligence officials say.
NATO commanders and senior Obama administration officials take heart in the fact that the Haqqanis have not conducted a complicated attack in Kabul since a suicide bomber steered his explosives-laden Toyota minibus into an American convoy on May 18. The attack killed 18 people, including 5 American soldiers and an officer from Canada, and wounded at least 47 civilians.
Allied officials attribute the tactical success to several factors. A sixfold increase in the past year in the number of Special Operations raids against insurgents, including the Haqqanis, has disrupted the militants' operations. In the past three months alone, commandos have carried out 1,784 missions across Afghanistan, killing or capturing 880 insurgent leaders.
About one-third of those operations were directed against the Haqqani network, a senior NATO official said. He and two other NATO officials agreed to speak candidly about current operations if they weren't quoted by name.
At the same time, 5,400 additional American ground forces have been deployed to eastern Afghanistan, bringing the total there to nearly 37,000. Combined with increased Afghan army, police and intelligence service operations in and around Kabul, the troop surge has hampered the Haqqani network's ability to run suicide bombers in a crucial corridor between Kabul and Khost, adjacent to the group's Pakistan sanctuary, allied commanders and independent counterinsurgency specialists say.
''We're going after their networks -- the I.E.D. suppliers and bomb makers, and lead fighters,'' said the senior NATO official in Kabul.
To help offset the withdrawal of some troops from isolated outposts in the east, NATO has increased surveillance drone flights and positioned 68 tethered balloons with cameras and other sensors along the border with Pakistan, a senior allied official said.
Inside Pakistan itself, 99 of the 112 airstrikes launched by C.I.A. drones this year have been directed at North Waziristan, the operations hub for the Haqqanis as well as one of their Waziri allies, Hafiz Gul Bahadur, according to Bill Roggio, editor of the Long War Journal, a Web site that monitors the war in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Yet so wily and tenacious are the Haqqanis that Kabul is rife with rumors that their attacks in the capital have subsided for other reasons. One suggests that President Hamid Karzai's government is paying the Haqqanis not to attack, while another suggests that the ISI has told the Haqqanis to back off in order to keep them in the mix for any Afghan reconciliation talks. NATO, Afghan and Pakistani officials deny such maneuvering.
American and NATO officials say the increased operations have degraded the Haqqani network in its stronghold of Paktia, Paktika and Khost Provinces, but not its ability to attack.
''While targeting multiple training camps and rat lines have yielded short-term gains, the resilience of the HQN in the area has made quantifying these gains difficult,'' a second NATO official said in an e-mail, using the abbreviation for the Haqqanis. ''The network continues to recruit fighters and take measures to conceal the extent of damage to their capacity. At this point, the effort has disrupted, rather than dislodged the Haqqani network.''
A recent report on the Haqqani network by the Institute for the Study of War, a research organization here, concluded: ''The population that Haqqani relies on for recruits, shelter and support has grown increasingly frustrated with the preponderance of civilian casualties and the death of recruits in Haqqani-linked operations.''
In a sign of their resiliency, the Haqqanis are moving north and west to avoid the Special Operations raids and drone strikes, and take advantage of ties to family and criminal networks there, American intelligence officials say. ''The insurgents are taking advantage of targets of opportunity and responding to pressure, rather than any concerted efforts to try to expand their influence,'' the second NATO official said.
In addition, American commanders say the Haqqani network has shifted from staging complex attacks against targets in Kabul, to smaller suicide-bombings and a series of furious, largely successful assaults this past summer against remote American outposts near the border with Pakistan.
On Dec. 19, Haqqani-linked insurgents armed with AK-47s and grenades opened fire on a bus carrying Afghan army trainers. One attacker ran into the bus and blew himself up, killing five officers and wounding nine others.
Afghan and allied commanders say that the increased raids against the Haqqani network are just a piece of the broader counterinsurgency strategy of Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top commander in Afghanistan, and the Karzai government, to win over the population with good governance and economic opportunity, as well as with improved security.
And this puts the United States in direct competition with the Haqqanis. ''The Haqqani network's goal remains territory,'' said a third NATO official in Kabul. ''While it does not have the capacity to unseat the government in Kabul, nor to really govern, it wants to seize territory because that allows it to generate income 'Mafia-like.' ''
Food Aid Cut After Bombing
KHAR, Pakistan (AP) -- About 300,000 villagers impoverished by fighting in Pakistan's tribal belt are scrambling to find food after a suicide bombing that killed 45 people outside a World Food Program center prompted a suspension of the relief project.
Pakistani officials said the attack was a sign of insurgent desperation, but the bombing challenged Islamabad's claims of victory over Al Qaeda and the Taliban in this part of the border with Afghanistan.
Shahab Khan, World Food Program district coordinator, said Sunday that its four centers in the Bajaur tribal region had been shut since Saturday's bombing. The centers feed the 300,000 people who returned to the district from camps for the displaced elsewhere in the country.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jalaluddin Haqqani, patriarch of group of Taliban militants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMAD RIAZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); SMUGGLING (70%); TRENDS (69%); ESPIONAGE (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (62%); ILLEGAL LOGGING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); KHOST, AFGHANISTAN (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (68%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



735 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: New Voters May Sway Fed Actions

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the Federal Reserve debates whether to scale back, continue or expand its $600 billion effort to nurse the economic recovery, four men will have a newly prominent role in influencing the central bank's path.
One is an economist who fears that the Fed's easy-money policies could lead to manias like the housing bubble that burst in 2007. Another is a Texas Democrat who served in the Clinton White House, but is wary of the Fed's aggressive efforts to combat unemployment.
A third is a precocious economist who graduated from Princeton at 19. And the fourth is the only one who agreed wholeheartedly with the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, that the economy was at risk of falling into a dangerous cycle of deflation last summer and that an additional monetary boost was needed.
The four men are presidents of regional Fed banks, and under an arcane system that dates to the Depression, they will become voting members in 2011 on the Federal Open Market Committee, which gathers eight times a year around a 27-foot mahogany table to influence the supply of credit in the economy. 
While Mr. Bernanke remains the dominant voice on which route the Fed takes, the change in voting composition is likely to give the committee a somewhat more hawkish cast. This could amplify anxieties about unforeseen effects of Mr. Bernanke's policies and potentially contribute to the increasingly politicized atmosphere surrounding the Fed.
Since the Fed embarked last month on a second round of quantitative easing -- a strategy of buying government securities to hold down mortgage and other long-term interest rates -- it has faced an outpouring of criticism from foreign central banks and conservative Republicans.
One of them, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, who is in line to become chairman of the House Budget Committee, said he thought that dissenters within the Fed would influence whether Mr. Bernanke ''throttles back, or keeps going,'' with the bond-buying plan.
''We're playing with fire, flirting with disaster,'' Mr. Ryan said of the plan, which he believes could jeopardize the dollar's status as the world's reserve currency and touch off future inflation.
Most economists think the Fed is unlikely to drastically alter its policy direction, though some of the new members could nudge policy toward more restraint and less activism. Two of the four new voters are viewed as hawkish on inflation, meaning that they tend to be more worried about unleashing future inflation than they are about reducing unemployment in the short run.
The committee will be ''a little more hawkish, on net, although I don't think it's a sea change,'' said Jan Hatzius, the chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs.
Of the four new voting members, the one drawing the most attention is Charles I. Plosser, 62, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia since 2006.
Mr. Plosser, who formerly taught at the University of Rochester, argued in a speech at the libertarian Cato Institute last month that monetary policy ''went off track'' a few years ago, an acknowledgment of the criticism that the Fed kept interest rates too low from 2003 to 2005, contributing to the housing bubble.
''I'd like the recovery to be faster, but I'm not sure monetary policy can do much about that,'' he said in an interview.
Mr. Plosser said that he has thought all along that the economic slowdown over the summer was temporary and that he ''wasn't a big fan'' of Mr. Bernanke's asset-purchase plan. He wants the Fed to move back toward normal policy.
''If we wait too long, and the economy really begins to pick up and we are too late in reacting, we could end up behind the curve and we could end up with more instability,'' he said.
Most economists expect Mr. Plosser to dissent, possibly repeatedly, in 2011, inheriting a role played by Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Kansas City Fed, who was the lone dissenter eight times this year but does not have a vote next year.
Richard W. Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed since 2005, is another potential dissenter. A former investment banker, he was the Democratic nominee for the Senate in 1994, but lost to Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Republican. He was a deputy United States trade representative during President Bill Clinton's second term.
Compared with most Democratic politicians, Mr. Fisher, 61, is wary of the Fed's latest moves. ''The remedy for what ails the economy is, in my view, in the hands of the fiscal and regulatory authorities, not the Fed,'' he said in a speech last month.
His views are also in line with those of fiscal conservatives, like Mr. Ryan, who think the Fed is abetting huge government deficits by ''monetizing the federal debt.''
Narayana R. Kocherlakota, 47, the Princeton graduate, who became president of the Minneapolis Fed last year, will be voting for the first time. He has been more measured about quantitative easing. In a speech last month, he called it ''a move in the right direction'' but said the ultimate effects were ''likely to be relatively modest.''
The fourth new voting member, Charles L. Evans, 52, has led the Chicago Fed since 2007. Unlike the other three, he is associated with the camp of so-called doves within the Fed, who are worried about chronic, long-term joblessness and think the recovery is still quite fragile.
Mr. Evans has advocated price-level targeting, a strategy that would allow inflation to run slightly above the desired level in the future to make up for inflation's being too low today. But in an October speech, he conceded that the proposal would be ''a hard pill to swallow'' for an institution whose credibility rested on its successes at taming high inflation in the early 1980s.
Mr. Evans is likely to side with Mr. Bernanke on the bond purchases; if anything, he might even push to expand them beyond $600 billion if the recovery weakened again.
The Federal Open Market Committee comprises the Fed's seven-member board of governors in Washington, including Mr. Bernanke; the president of the New York Fed, who is a permanent member; and four members drawn from the heads of the 11 other banks, who share votes through a rotation.
''It's true that voting members get more attention in the press, but whether people are voting or nonvoting members, everyone has an equal voice at the table and an equal part in the discussions,'' said Randall S. Kroszner, a former Fed governor and a professor at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago. ''It's a consensus-based organization.''
For now, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other major forecasters expect the Fed will carry out its plan to buy $600 billion in securities -- neither scaling back the program early, nor extending it past June. But Mr. Bernanke has left his options open, and the committee is likely to wait until the spring before deciding.
Lyle E. Gramley, a former Fed governor who advises the Potomac Research Group, an economic research firm, said he thought the new members would introduce ''slightly more uncertainty,'' but predicted that the ultimate effect would be limited.
''The chairman has a strong voice in the outcome of the meeting, and there is a tradition that not too many people are going to dissent at any one time,'' he said.
What could cause the Fed to scale back, Mr. Gramley said, is an unexpected and sharp rise in inflation expectations. If the markets come to believe that inflation will eventually rise higher than the Fed's unofficial long-range target of 2 percent, they could drive up interest rates -- and inflation. So far, there have been few signs of that, but the situation could change quickly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard W. Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed since 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIL ALLEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Charles I. Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Narayana Kocherlakota, president of the Minneapolis Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG LASSIG/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Charles L. Evans, president of the Chicago Fed since 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM BOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DEFLATION (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); CONSERVATISM (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



736 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: How to Derail Financial Reform

 BODY:
Ever since the Dodd-Frank financial reform law was signed in July, the question has been whether it would actually lead to a stable financial system. If the Republicans who will control the House next year get their way, the answer will surely be ''no.''
The legislation requires regulators to write hundreds of rules to put the law into effect. To their credit, regulatory agencies have begun that process with a sense of mission and depth of expertise that was missing in the years before the financial crisis. 
In particular, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission -- which share the all-important regulation of the multitrillion-dollar derivatives market -- have proposed rules that are tough and sophisticated. The new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is ramping up. The Financial Stability Oversight Council, led by the Treasury secretary, will report in January on how to implement the ''Volcker rule'' to restrict proprietary trading by banks.
The process is painstaking, and the outcome is uncertain. But progress is being made -- and the House Republican leaders want none of that. Representative Spencer Bachus of Alabama, the next chairman of the House Financial Services Committee told The Birmingham News that ''Washington and the regulators are there to serve the banks.'' He later said he meant regulators should set parameters, not micromanage banks, yet he seems to prefer the parameters that were in effect before the crisis when regulators did serve the banks.
In a letter to the S.E.C. written with Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the next majority whip, he said Dodd-Frank would do little for economic recovery and warned against rules that could curtail growth. He and Representative Frank Lucas of Oklahoma, who will lead the agriculture committee, which shares jurisdiction over derivatives, have urged regulators to avoid ''overly prescriptive'' rules on derivatives speculation. He has also warned the Financial Stability Oversight Council that a strong Volcker rule would impose ''substantial'' economic costs, without making the system safer.
Mr. Bachus's salvoes are only the start. Some Republicans want new laws to weaken the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and others have pledged numerous hearings, which seem intended not to oversee the process but to inhibit it by creating delays and communicating hostility.
Another damaging attack would be to starve the budgets of the S.E.C. and the commodities commission. Both agencies rely on Congress for their appropriations, and neither can carry out its new duties without more money. In a recent interview on CNBC, the next House majority leader, Eric Cantor of Virginia, said the American people want and expect Republicans to cut off financing for Dodd-Frank, adding that the law is a job killer. Could he be more wrong? Americans' concern about financial reform is that it is too weak, not too strong. They are furious at the banks, whose recklessness has led to crisis and recession -- and high unemployment.
The Republicans' intentions could not be clearer. What is unclear is the Democratic strategy -- in Congress and the White House -- for thwarting them. The lesson of the legislative accomplishments of the lame-duck session is that early, visible and adamant engagement by President Obama makes a difference.
Mr. Obama cannot let financial reform become a bargaining chip and must make the case that it will not help the federal budget -- or the nation in general -- to shortchange reforms that could prevent another crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FUTURES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (56%)

PERSON: FRANK D LUCAS (79%); BARNEY FRANK (79%); SPENCER BACHUS (57%); ERIC CANTOR (57%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



737 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Increasing Demand From China's Readers Helps Create a More Open Industry

BYLINE: By DAN LEVIN

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Star-crossed love between Alexander the Great and his teenage male slave. Ferocious battles that defined an empire. The bloodshed and romance of Ancient Greece.
The novel ''The Persian Boy,'' by Mary Renault, has it all. In the West, the book, which is filled with scenes of pederasty and homosexual passion, raises a few eyebrows nearly four decades after it was first published. But in China, where omnipotent censors regularly smother sensitive content and portrayals of sexuality are illegal, one would think a book like this would never make it to the bookstore shelf, let alone past a publisher's desk.
Well, think again. When Zheng Yuantao, a 30-year-old translator, came upon the English version in 2005, he set out to bring this tale to the Chinese readership in a language they could understand.
''My goal was to translate a positive gay love story for Chinese people to see as a role model,'' he said on a recent afternoon near his home in Beijing. 
Two years after he first approached a Chinese publisher, Horizon Media, with the project, he celebrated his success at the book's introductory party this past August, signing copies for a line of eager readers. A second printing of 5,000 copies ran in November following a first run of 10,000.
Mr. Zheng's triumph marks a stunning shift in Chinese society as the country's headlong economic development has brought new liberalization and ideas to its shores. While film, radio and television remain squarely under the thumb of the Chinese government, the book industry has steadily become more open.
With tastes growing more sophisticated and worldly, foreign book publishers have leapt at the opportunity to attract new readers among China's growing middle class.
Although certain subjects like the Dalai Lama, Taiwan independence, dark episodes in Communist history and overtly religious themes remain verboten -- and are deleted from translated editions of foreign titles -- the hunger for literature, business advice and self-help books has fueled a scramble among Chinese publishers and their international counterparts to translate classics and the latest best sellers into Chinese, creating new opportunities for book agents and translators to help bridge the gap between East and West.
According to the General Administration of Press and Publication, more than 15,700 foreign titles were bought by Chinese publishing companies in 2008, including more than 4,000 from the United States, the No.1 country of origin. In 2005, less than 10,000 foreign book titles were sold to China.
Horizon Media, part of the Shanghai Century Publishing Group, was founded in 2002 with a mission to publish social science books and had no literature department. But it has adapted deftly to the evolving demand, now publishing about 150 titles a year, 70 percent of which come from outside mainland China. The company sells novels for between 20 and 36 renminbi, or $3 and $5.40
Wang Ling, Horizon's chief literature editor, cites as a turning point the company's publishing of ''The Da Vinci Code'' in 2003, of which two million copies have been printed here, followed by the huge success of ''The Kite Runner,'' with 800,000 in print -- astronomical numbers in a country where, Ms. Wang says, only ''super-best sellers'' reach half a million copies.
The quality of a translation plays a major role in a foreign title's success in China, so Horizon takes great care to hire someone with an ear for language and a contemporary voice that readers will enjoy. ''A good translator is not just fluent in the source language but must also know how to write an eloquent Chinese sentence,'' Ms. Wang said.
Frequently, Horizon turns to Li Jihong, a 30-year-old from Shanghai who has translated 20 books, including ''The Kite Runner,'' ''A Thousand Splendid Suns'' and the ''Conversations With God'' series, as well as works by Clive Cussler and Margaret Atwood. He usually translates each book in a few days, with a dictionary by his side for obscure terms. ''You have to see through the words in the original language and get what the author wants to say, and then find an accurate and decent way of expressing it in Chinese,'' he said.
Sometimes, however, an authentic translation runs afoul of the Chinese government, and then changes must be made. In ''The Kite Runner,'' references to the Soviets' disastrous meddling in Afghanistan were removed, as it was deemed to tarnish the Communist brand, as was a glowing mention of the government's arch-nemesis, the Dalai Lama, in the book ''Communion With God.''
Mr. Li loved the ''Conversations With God'' series so much that he bought the Chinese rights, which also ensured that no editor could change his translation. The first book stayed on the Amazon China top-100 best-seller list for a year after it was first published. It is a constant affirmation to Mr. Li, who thinks these books can benefit Chinese society because they ''awaken the conscience of the powerful and bring consolation to the powerless,'' he said.
Of course, translators alone do not bring foreign books to China. The Big Apple agency, the mainland's largest, represents publishers and imprints from around the world seeking to license book titles to the more than 1,000 publishers it works with in China. Big Apple handles the legwork, which includes sending samples, negotiating offer terms and tracking royalty payments, for which it generally receives a 10 percent cut. The agency said it sealed more than 2,000 contracts in 2009 and expected that number to increase this year. Contracts can be lucrative -- last week Big Apple resold J.D. Salinger's ''Catcher in the Rye'' for more than $200,000.
Big Apple and other agencies also make sure publishers' intellectual property does not fall into the wrong hands in China, which has a notorious record for ignoring copyright laws. ''All too often do we hear stories where proprietors send book samples to publishers directly and never hear back from them,'' said Wendy King, vice president of Big Apple. To safeguard material, the agency keeps a log of lent review samples, sends out only partial electronic files of manuscripts for review and notes which publishers have bad credit or fail to promptly provide royalty statements.
However, she says, the legal environment in China has improved, and ''following the copyright laws is now the norm rather than the exception.''
Western publishers are flocking to China, with many opening offices in Beijing and Shanghai and mobbing Chinese publishers at international book fairs. HarperCollins says its number of deals and revenue from those sales have more than doubled over the last three years, mostly in the business and self-help categories: Donald Trump's ''Think Big in Business and Life'' and Jack Welch's ''Winning'' being two of the most successful titles.
All this gives both foreign and domestic Chinese publishers confidence that the industry will become increasingly free and lucrative. That books like ''The Persian Boy,'' ''The Da Vinci Code'' and ''The Kite Runner'' caused some jitters over their controversial themes yet were published and then became popular reveals a nation willing to push boundaries and a government growing more at ease with foreign ideas, says Ms. Wang, the Horizon Media editor. ''The industry is driven by a desire to pursue profit,'' she said. ''Because society at large is liberalizing, readers demand different books, so we take the risk and hope it pays off.''
Online Correction: December 22, 2010, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of the photographer credited with taking a photo of Zheng Yuantao. The photographer's name is Ted Alcorn, not Ted Alcon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wang Ling, an editor at Horizon Media, called its Chinese translation of ''The Da Vinci Code'' a big success and a turning point.
 Zheng Yuantao translated ''The Persian Boy,'' a gay love story, into Chinese. The publication of the novel in China and its popularity with readers reflect a significant change in society. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TED ALCORN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); LITERARY AGENTS (77%); CLASSICS (77%); CENSORSHIP (77%); BOOKSTORES (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



738 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Las Vegas Gets New City Hall, And a Mullet

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- The imposing concrete building, a place now for the recorder of deeds and the seekers of zoning variances, will soon play unlikely host to a company that lists ''a little weirdness'' among its top 10 values and employs a greeter in the lobby offering free hugs to everyone. Need a nap? Grab a jail cell. And on the wish list of renovations are an indoor ski slope and a pet whale.
In most places, this might sound a little odd, but this is the kind of city where nearby attractions include an urban zip line over a bustling pedestrian street and a hotel pool filled with sharks and whose mayor never fails to bring along a few showgirls on any out-of-town visit. 
The company, Zappos, an online shoe retailer with a reputation for eccentricity (its unofficial symbol is a mullet haircut: ''business in the front, party in the back''), plans to move into Las Vegas's soon-to-be vacated City Hall and make the complex its headquarters. City officials, who have obsessed for years about revitalizing downtown, say the move will radically alter the life of the city's core, changing a struggling corner of town into a hive of activity. The $25 million deal will help pay for a newer and grander City Hall a few blocks away, another one of the mayor's pet projects to usher the city into the next decade.
Here, the notion of the company moving into the municipal building is hardly seen as bizarre. Instead, the news that Zappos is planning to move from its current headquarters in the city's suburbs is seen as something akin to salvation for a place that has had more than its share of devastating economic blows over the last several years.
City officials expect that the more than 1,000 employees from the Web site -- many of them young, single and presumably happy to spread around some disposable income -- will vastly improve the atmosphere in a place that is pockmarked with vacant storefronts and where locals still warn visitors to be careful at night. Instead of liquor stores, there could be doggy day care.
''Zappos moving here is giant for us, just a total change in history,'' said Mayor Oscar B. Goodman, who has long been known for his over-the-top statements. ''It legitimates us. Maybe legitimates is not the right word, but it validates what this community could provide.''
For years, Mr. Goodman has made reviving downtown his top priority -- his relentless cheerleading might border on obsession. It is a just a 10-minute drive to the more glittery and famous Strip, where high-end resorts are still opening, despite the recession. But downtown Vegas is a world away. Here, vintage neon signs line the sidewalks as a way to glamorize the Vegas that was and, it is implied, will be.
The signs of success in recent years have included a couple of upscale bars and a cafe that doubles as an artists' space. More recently a hookah bar with Middle Eastern-themed decor opened where a pawn shop used to be. (Mr. Goodman took joy in explaining: ''That's hookah, not hookers. We've had enough of that around here.'')
And while many have hailed the openings as clear evidence of rejuvenation, on a recent Thursday night many of the bars were nearly empty. But Zappos employees are known for their penchant for parties. Days after the move was announced, Tony Hsieh, the chief executive officer of the company, took all of the employees for happy hour, trotting through many of the bars that will eventually be their neighbors.
''Right now, all we have here is Claim Jumper,'' said Mig Pascual, standing in the lobby of Zappos's headquarters in suburban Henderson. From the outside, the current corporate space is anything but remarkable -- a couple of squat buildings inside an office park.
''It would be great to be someplace where we're not the most exciting place around,'' Mr. Pascual said.
Inside, though, Zappos headquarters looks more like a playground than an office. Every cubicle is festooned with knick-knacks -- fringe hangs from the fans, and giant foam balls and hula hoops sit in several spots. For the last several years, the building has become a pilgrimage spot for shoe fanatics and managers from other companies who are eager to take in the office culture. The volume of visitors has ticked up significantly since Mr. Hsieh published his first book this year, ''Delivering Happiness.''
Even when the company first relocated to the Las Vegas area in 2003, Mr. Hsieh said, he knew he wanted to look elsewhere, someplace that would easily allow employees to play just steps away from work. In his book, Mr. Hsieh recalls when the company was based in the San Francisco apartment building where he also helped open a restaurant and many of his employees lived.
''I want to be in an area where everyone feels like they can hang out all the time and where there's not a huge distinction between working and playing,'' Mr. Hsieh said.
Many of the condo buildings that were built here at the height of the real estate boom are virtually empty, but developers are now counting on Zappos employees to move in en masse.
''They'll move in and they'll demand services -- dry cleaning, restaurants, anything you can think of,'' said Andrew B. Donner, the owner of several properties downtown, including the long-vacant Lady Luck hotel, which he plans to renovate. ''This place will be radically different in a couple of years.''
Mr. Donner first approached the city with the idea of Zappos moving into City Hall, and ultimately it was his company, Resort Gaming Group, that bought the building from the city. Zappos is expected to move into the property once several changes have been made.
There has been little criticism of the deal, which is being paid for with a complicated financing arrangement between Mr. Donner's company and the city. The money the city is getting for the property will help build the new City Hall a few blocks away. When a television producer here pressed Mayor Goodman about the arrangement during a news conference, he scolded her, saying, ''I am not going to allow anyone to ruin the party.'' Later, he suggested that someone should ''break the legs'' of anyone who doubts the importance of the deal.
Mr. Goodman argues that the city will be much better off with the property on the city's tax rolls. Zappos, now owned by Amazon, made more than $1 billion in sales in 2009, a number it is expected to surpass this year.
City Hall looks much the way it did when it was built in 1973, although new space was added several years ago. There are still jail cells in the basement that have not been used for years. Zappos is considering a plan to revive them as nap rooms. At the Henderson office, two rooms with glass doors covered by black construction paper serve that purpose. Employees are welcome to use them for an hour any day of the week, although at the busiest times, bosses can cut that to 30 minutes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jenn Mummert, from left, Kristin Colbert and Dan Callahan at Zappos in Henderson, Nev.
 Zappos's arrival, which will help pay for a new Las Vegas City Hall, is huge for downtown, Mayor Oscar B. Goodman says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); ZONING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); RETAILERS (73%); RESORTS (72%); PETS (71%); PET CARE SERVICES (71%); RECESSION (70%); INTERNET RETAILING (68%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (68%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



739 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1103 words

PERSON: Carlos Andres Perez 

HEADLINE: Carlos Andres Perez, 88, a President Who Led Venezuela in Boom and Bust

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- Carlos Andres Perez, the former president who tried to make Venezuela a leader of the developing world during a 1970s oil boom only to have his legacy upended in a tumultuous 1989 return to the presidency marked by civil unrest, coup attempts, impeachment and exile, died Saturday in Miami. He was 88.
The cause was a heart attack, his daughter, Maria Francia Perez, told the news network Globovision. 
Mr. Perez burst onto the Latin American political scene in the mid-1970s when a quadrupling of oil prices suddenly enriched Venezuela's government, opening the way for state-led development efforts and an era of glitzy consumption known here as ''Venezuela Saudita,'' or Saudi Venezuela.
A gifted orator known for his bushy sideburns and flashy suits, Mr. Perez nationalized Venezuela's oil industry and the holdings of American iron-ore companies. At the same time, he secured a vocal role for Venezuela in hemispheric affairs, portending, in some ways, President Hugo Chavez's more assertive foreign policy.
In his first term, Mr. Perez re-established ties with Cuba and donated a ship to Bolivia, in support of that landlocked nation's aspiration to regain sea access. He opposed the right-wing Somoza dictatorship in Nicaragua and encouraged Omar Torrijos, Panama's leftist military leader, in his effort to gain sovereignty over the Panama Canal.
Cultivating an independent streak that sometimes put him at odds with Washington, he tried to strengthen the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, of which Venezuela was a founding member. With that goal in mind, he bought a full-page ad in The New York Times in 1974 to publish a letter to President Gerald R. Ford.
''The establishment of OPEC was a direct consequence of the developed countries' use of a policy of outrageously low prices for our raw materials as a weapon of economic oppression,'' Mr. Perez wrote.
Mr. Perez was born Oct. 22, 1922, the 11th of 12 children, to parents who were coffee planters in Rubio, a town near the western border with Colombia. He studied law in Caracas and married his first cousin, Blanca Rodriguez, in 1948, with whom he had six children.
He was imprisoned that year for his opposition to a military coup and went into exile in 1949, roaming between Colombia, Cuba and Costa Rica, where he worked as editor of the newspaper La Republica.
With the establishment of democratic rule here in 1958, he became a rising star in the government of President Romulo Betancourt. As interior minister, he oversaw a counterinsurgency against Cuban-backed guerrillas. Later, at the helm of the Democratic Action Party, he mounted his successful 1973 bid for the presidency.
That five-year term was marked by the rise of new fortunes in the private sector. Business deals were said to be discussed in the mansion belonging to his mistress, Cecilia Matos, who wore a gold replica of an oil tower on a chain around her neck; she said ''Papi,'' as she called the president, gave her the necklace, according to Fernando Coronil, a Venezuelan anthropologist at the graduate center of the City University of New York.
After his departure from office in 1979 and the bust in the 1980s that shook Venezuela's economy, Mr. Perez returned to power in 1989 following a campaign that demonized multilateral institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
Yet soon after taking office, Mr. Perez put in place an austerity program that included a $4.5 billion loan from the I.M.F. He announced spending cuts and raised gasoline prices, triggering the chaotic episode in February 1989 called the ''Caracazo'': rioting and suppression by the security forces that took hundreds of lives.
Mr. Perez faced two coup attempts in 1992, the first of which was led by Mr. Chavez, thrusting the then-unknown lieutenant colonel into the national spotlight.
Despite the turbulence of his second term, Mr. Perez still sought an active role for Venezuela in regional politics. He forged warm ties with Jaime Paz Zamora, the former Bolivian president, and sent a plane for Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the former Haitian president, when he was ousted in 1991.
Still, resentment here festered against Mr. Perez, culminating in his impeachment and removal from office in 1993 on corruption charges involving a secretive fund used in part to pay for the bodyguards of Violeta Chamorro, the former Nicaraguan president.
''When the country's future seemed promising, his power seemed immense; when conditions deteriorated, he was abandoned even by his own supporters,'' said Mr. Coronil, the anthropologist. ''His trajectory illustrated the transient nature of power.''
Declaring his innocence, he was locked for 10 weeks in a 12-by-9-foot cell in a prison in one of this city's slums. Then he was put under house arrest for two years in his hillside estate, where he would receive visitors in a chamber decorated with the framed gold pen he used to sign the papers nationalizing Venezuela's oil industry.
After Mr. Chavez's election to the presidency in 1998, Mr. Perez again went into exile, moving to the Dominican Republic, where he faced accusations from officials here of conspiring to oust Mr. Chavez. In 2003, Venezuela temporarily cut oil exports to the Dominican Republic, forcing Mr. Perez to move to the United States, where he eventually settled with Ms. Matos, with whom he had two daughters.
From the United States, he faced extradition proceedings in connection with his crackdown during the 1989 riots. Venezuelan prosecutors claimed that security forces used unnecessary force on rioters.
Despite his deteriorating health in recent years, Mr. Perez remained a vocal critic of Mr. Chavez, describing his government as ''illegitimate.'' He chastised the president for what he described as ''unbecoming behavior'' at a 2007 political summit meeting in Chile, during which King Juan Carlos of Spain publicly told Mr. Chavez, ''Why don't you shut up?''
On Sunday, Mr. Chavez took note of Mr. Perez's death.
''May he rest in peace,'' he said in a televised speech in western Venezuela, according to The Associated Press. ''But with him may the form of politics that he personified rest in peace and leave here forever.''
Online Correction: December 26, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the date when an uprising known as the ''Caracazo'' took place. It was in 1989, not 1992. The article also misstated where Fernando Coronil works. He is an anthropologist at the City University of New York, not at New York University.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former President Carlos Andres Perez being led to jail in 1994. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE CARUCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); COUPS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); COFFEE (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%)

HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); PANAMA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); NICARAGUA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



740 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Stress on Campus: There Is Help

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As editors of the book ''Mental Health Care in the College Community,'' we applaud you for illuminating the increasing pressure being experienced by college mental health professionals to provide services and care to students (''As Students Endure More Strains, So Do College Mental Centers,'' front page, Dec. 20).
To be sure, the demand for these services has increased dramatically in the past 15 years. But the news is not all bad. At least part of the increased use of these services is based on the progress made in educating students, families, and university faculty and administrators about the importance of actively addressing mental health problems. 
There is also evidence that the work being done by experts and public health advocates to destigmatize the seeking of mental health care is beginning to bear some fruit.
Finally, while we are sensitive to the current economic challenges faced by higher education, we would remind university leaders that these services are vital in helping students remain in school. If treatment at a counseling center helps two or three students to do so, that has paid the cost of one staff therapist. As such, providing good care is not only the right thing to do, but also makes excellent economic sense.
Victor Schwartz Jerald Kay New York, Dec. 20, 2010
Dr. Schwartz is university dean of students at Yeshiva University and associate professor of clinical psychiatry at Albert Einstein School of Medicine. Dr. Kay is professor of psychiatry at Boonshoft School of Medicine, Wright State University.
To the Editor:
The exploding rate of ''severe'' psychiatric illness on campus is most likely caused by overdiagnosis -- not by a decline in the mental health of college students. The people are the same, but the boundary of psychiatry has expanded at the expense of normality.
Mental disorder is elusive and difficult to define, with no bright line separating illness from normality, no biologically based laboratory test. Diagnosis is determined by a checklist of symptoms establishing thresholds that are necessarily somewhat arbitrary.
Milder forms of the depressive, anxiety and attention deficit disorders border upon, and are difficult to distinguish from, expectable everyday aches, pains, sufferings and performance problems in reaction to the stresses of college life. Not all difficulty is disorder.
Overdiagnosis has been greatly encouraged by the extensive direct-to-consumer drug company advertising that was legalized 13 years ago. The primary strategy of the drug company ''educational'' pitch has been to ''sell the ill'' to ''move the pill.''
Psychiatric diagnosis and treatment are enormously helpful for those with severe and persistent symptoms. By all means, let's diagnose and medicate students who really need it. But the huge increases in the rate of mental illness almost surely represent a medicalization of the expectable difficulties many students have in adjusting to college life.
Student health services would do well to avoid premature diagnosis and the rush to prescription. Diagnose only those who are really ill, and provide counseling and watchful waiting for the rest.
Allen Frances Coronado, Calif., Dec. 22, 2010
The writer, emeritus professor of psychiatry at Duke University, was chairman of the task force that created the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.
To the Editor:
A recent study has shown that 1 in every 4 to 5 adolescents ages 13 to 18 in the United States meets the criteria for the diagnosis of a mental health disorder. The most common conditions are anxiety, behavior disorder, mood disorder and substance abuse.
Stony Brook University has established a counseling center and outreach system designed to bring in students for mental health evaluation and treatment before the ultimate tragedy -- suicide or behaviors that may harm others.
But there are many adolescents who attend a college without such resources or who are in high school, the work force or unemployed and fall out of potential screening opportunities. Teenagers with undiagnosed mental health conditions may go on to a lifetime of suffering because they are not provided with care early on.
We need to educate coaches, parents, teachers, clergy, military officials and others who work with adolescents to recognize distress in teenagers. Once a problem is suspected, then early referral to a clinical resource is mandatory.
Mark A. Goldstein Boston, Dec. 20, 2010
The writer is chief of the Division of Adolescent and Young Adult Medicine at MassGeneral Hospital for Children and co-author of ''Mental Health Disorders in Adolescents.''
To the Editor:
Your article mentions some of the factors contributing to more stressed, anxious and depressed college students finding their way to the campus counselor, among them greater awareness of mental health issues and less stigma about seeking help.
Another factor is the practice in colleges and universities of advising students into a ''normal'' load of 15 credits (five courses) a term, with all those final papers and exams due in the last weeks of the semester. In addition, more and more students work to support themselves. The average college student is therefore juggling at least six major projects in his or her life.
The academic community should start a conversation about quality over quantity. Can less be more as we reflect on our role as educators?
Susan J. Behrens Brooklyn, Dec. 20, 2010
The writer is a professor of communications sciences and disorders at Marymount Manhattan College.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WARD SCHUMAKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); MENTAL HEALTH (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); DEPRESSION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (73%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



741 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 66 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index for October and consumer confidence for December (Tuesday); and weekly jobless claims and the Chicago purchasing managers' index for December (Thursday).
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting will include Comverse Technology (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Stock markets and bond markets will be open on Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (88%); BONDS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); BOND MARKETS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



742 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Financial News We'd Love to See

BYLINE: By RICHARD BEALES, ROB COX and AGNES T. CRANE

 BODY:
The financial crises of the last couple of years spawned myriad reforms. But there are other undesirable situations around the globe that still need changing.
Here are five financial headlines that investors may wish for, but are highly unlikely to appear:
''G-20 Agrees to Scrap Interest Deduction.'' Corporate finance everywhere is skewed by the tax deductibility of interest, which encourages excessive leverage. And housing markets where borrowers can deduct large amounts of mortgage interest, notably the United States, suffer similar distortions, with predictably troublesome results. Britain phased out the mortgage deduction it used to have. But these are tricky political waters, and even isolated moves are unlikely, never mind a concerted global effort. 
''Apple, Google and Other Global Tech Firms to Pay Huge Special Dividends.'' Sure, some, like Cisco, have talked about starting a payout of a modest size. But their stashes of cash are out of all proportion to the universe of sensible ways they could spend it. Most of the pile should go to shareholders. But that requires bosses to concede their growth prospects are finite and to effectively shrink the companies they run.
''China Floats Its Currency.'' Perhaps not completely freely -- that could be asking too much, even for a rust-belt member of Congress. But it's a needed move to ease global economic imbalances. Unfortunately, stability and employment are the overriding objectives of Beijing. Any big step that threatens either won't be taken.
''Bipartisan Energy Bill Passes Congress With Overwhelming Support.'' A sweeping effort by the world's top consumer of hydrocarbons could include eliminating inefficient subsidies for ethanol production; removing import tariffs on Caribbean cane ethanol; adding a $1-a-gallon gas tax; mandating that all federal agencies convert their vehicles to run on compressed natural gas; and imposing a carbon tax to encourage energy conservation and cleaner-burning fuels. Pigs might fly, too.
''General Electric Follows Citigroup and Bank of America With Breakup Plan.'' Carving up G.E. into separate businesses and winding down GE Capital would create value for shareholders and show that Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive, recognizes that the company's conglomerate structure doesn't create sufficient synergies. The company may slowly be heading in that direction, but swallowing his pride and doing it quickly looks a step too far for Mr. Immelt.
Floor Under Offices?
Commercial real estate used to be a sucker's bet. Think Lehman Brothers' interest in Archstone-Smith, the disastrous 2006 purchase of the Stuyvesant Town/Peter Cooper Village complex in New York for $5.4 billion, and other deals in which investors and their lenders got in way over their heads. After Lehman's failure, many expected a day of reckoning in commercial real estate, much like that seen in the housing market. It may never happen.
This year, large city markets like New York, Los Angeles and Washington have primed the pumps for a broader market recovery. A combination of big-ticket sales -- Google, for instance, recently paid $1.8 billion for a Manhattan office building in one of the biggest deals since Lehman collapsed -- and solid returns on some investments have breathed life back into commercial real estate.
Money is already starting to flow into second-tier markets like Houston, Dallas and Seattle as real estate investment trusts and private equity reach for higher-hanging fruit. That should continue in 2011. Not only is real estate a relatively cheap-looking asset class, but also, a growing economy should help reduce vacancy rates and increase cash flow.
Such a virtuous cycle could put a solid floor under prices. National valuations rose in October for the second consecutive month, but they are still nearly 42 percent off their peak, according to Moody's Investors Service. That's important for owners and lenders who signed deals during the boom. They will be competing for refinancing in 2014 through 2017 from lenders who will probably impose stricter standards. Nearly $430 billion of loans repackaged into securities will mature in that period, according to Amherst Securities. The total amount of maturing debt will be much higher.
Ultimately the economy, and specifically job creation, will dictate demand for offices, apartments and shopping malls. Especially in the hardest-hit local markets, that means at best sluggish improvement in the near term. Still, even a shallow recovery in 2011 is a far better outcome than the implosion once feared.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Stuyvesant Town/Peter Cooper Village apartment complex in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BIOFUELS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); FUEL TAX (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); DIVIDENDS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (69%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (69%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (68%); ETHANOL (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (63%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (63%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); APPLE INC (70%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (82%); GEC (LSE) (82%); GE (SWX) (82%); GE (NYSE) (82%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (70%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (70%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (70%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



743 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
PAKISTANI WOMEN SEEK JOBS BUT ALSO FIND CONFLICT
A small but growing generation of lower-class young women in Pakistan are entering service-sector jobs to support their families, and by extension, pitting their religious and cultural traditions against economic desperation. The women are pressed into the work force not by nascent feminism but by inflation, and their employment is not without risks. PAGE A4
A STANDOFF OVER HOUSING
A clash between residents in Buenos Aires and a group of about 90 squatters who have moved to a soccer field has become a symbol of the government's inability to resolve one of the worst spates of social unrest in years and an onerous political test for President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner of Argentina. PAGE A4 
PROTESTING ETHNIC STRIFE
After weeks of rising tensions, a few thousand people gathered in Moscow to protest ethnic violence and to call on the authorities to refrain from crackdowns that would curtail Moscow's diversity. PAGE A7
SHIP RAIDED IN GAZA RETURNS
Thousands of people gathered along the shores of Istanbul to welcome home the Mavi Marmara, the ship that was raided by Israel as it led a flotilla aimed at breaking the blockade of Gaza. PAGE A6
8 AMERICANS DIE IN CRASH
Eight Americans were killed in Egypt when their tour bus collided with a parked truck full of sand on a dimly lighted desert road, passengers said. PAGE A6
National
MEDICAID BONUSES TO REWARD
States for Insuring Children
The Obama administration plans to announce that it will make $206 million in bonus Medicaid payments to 15 states -- with more than a fourth of the total going to Alabama -- for signing up children who are eligible for public health insurance but had previously failed to enroll. PAGE A9
LAS VEGAS AWAITS ZAPPOS
Zappos, an online shoe retailer with a reputation for eccentricity, plans to move into Las Vegas's soon-to-be vacated City Hall and make the complex its headquarters. The $25 million deal will help pay for a newer and grander City Hall a few blocks away, another one of the mayor's pet projects to revitalize the city's downtown. PAGE A9
New York
FEDERAL AGENCY MISHANDLED
Forfeitures, Suit Says
An arm of the United States Marshals Service undervalued what could amount to untold millions of dollars in assets forfeited by white-collar criminals -- including some from the family of Bernard L. Madoff -- and sold them for far less than they were worth, according to a lawsuit filed in federal court in Manhattan. PAGE A12
Business
FEDERAL RESERVE OFFICIALS
To Assume Voting Roles
As the Federal Reserve debates whether to scale back, continue or expand its $600 billion effort to nurse the economic recovery, four presidents of regional Fed banks will become voting members in 2011 on the Federal Open Market Committee, which gathers eight times a year to influence the supply of credit in the economy. PAGE B1
CHINA'S BOOK INDUSTRY OPEN
The headlong economic development in China has brought new liberalization and ideas. While film, radio and television remain squarely under the thumb of the Chinese government, the book industry has steadily become more open. PAGE B1
YEAR OF THE TABLET, AGAIN
As 2011 draws near, the murmurs about the next Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas all have to do with tablet computers again. There will be Microsoft tablets, Hewlett-Packard slates and a number of devices running the Google Android platform -- all looking to take on the iPad. Nick Bilton, Bits. PAGE B4
HACKING WEB DEVICES
Security experts have long warned that the arrival of Internet TVs, smartphones and other popular Web-ready gadgets will usher in a new era of threats by presenting easy targets for hackers. As these devices become more popular, experts say, consumers can expect to run into familiar scams like credit card number thefts as well as new ones that play off features in the products. PAGE B1
A CRAFT SITE THRIVES
Since it was founded in 2005 as a way for hobbyists and crafty types to sell their goods, Etsy has blossomed into a thriving e-commerce Web site and one of New York's hottest start-ups. The company says it expects to bring in $30 million to $50 million in revenue this year and has been profitable for a year. It has seven million registered users, nearly twice what it had a year ago. PAGE B1
USING TROOPS TO BUILD BUZZ
Promotional screenings in college towns and on the Manhattan cocktail circuit are a conventional way to build awareness for prestige films. But movie executives say military personnel can be major drivers of a film's success, as they are generally an appreciative audience and make great buzz-builders because of their frequent travel and wide-ranging communications links. PAGE B2
A PODCASTING MOGUL
Leo Laporte is an unlikely media mogul. He runs his empire, a podcasting network, TWIT, which produces 30 hours of technology-focused podcasts each week that are downloaded five million times a month. PAGE B4
TEACHING MANGA IN JAPAN
Japanese universities are working to attract students to fill their classrooms while the country's birth rate declines, more are offering degrees in manga, Japan's popular comic form, and animation. PAGE B6
Arts
BOUNTY HUNTER TAKES
His Skills to the Met Stage
Carl Tanner is a truck driver turned bounty hunter turned opera singer making his Metropolitan Opera debut on Monday. He'll slip into the role of Dick Johnson, the pistol-packing, high-note-hitting romantic lead in ''La Fanciulla del West'' for one night, almost like a Wild West bounty hunter who rides into town for what's called in that trade a quick collar. PAGE C1
CAPTURED REPORTER'S ORDEAL
''A Rope and a Prayer'' is a firsthand account by David Rohde, a correspondent for The New York Times, and his wife, Kristen Mulvihill, about the 7 months and 10 days in Taliban captivity in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and her harrowing negotiations for his release. PAGE C3
'MEN' RINGS TRUE FOR WOMEN
Ginia Bellafante writes that ''Men of a Certain Age,'' TNT's meditation on midlife starring Ray Romano, Scott Bakula and Andre Braugher, is genetically female, and catered to how women think men ought to live. Since its premiere last year, the series has attracted an average of 3.9 million viewers a week, more than half of whom are women. PAGE C1
A CARNEGIE MOMENT
The New York String Orchestra, composed of young musicians age 16 to 25 conducted by Jaime Laredo, played its annual Christmas Eve concert at Carnegie Hall, and the place was nearly full. Anthony Tommasini writes that the orchestra is an unusual venture that has attracted a loyal following. PAGE C1
RECONSIDERING A WRITER
Jean Toomer wasone of the enigmatic writers associated with the Harlem Renaissance, and his 1923 book ''Cane,'' mingled fiction, drama and poetry in a formally audacious effort to portray the complexity of black lives. Now Henry Louis Gates Jr., the Harvard scholar, and Rudolph P. Byrd, a professor at Emory University, say their research for a new edition of ''Cane'' documents that Toomer was ''a Negro who decided to pass for white.'' PAGE C1
Obituaries
KAREN TUTTLE, 90
She was a violist and teacher whose singular approach to her instrument -- which entailed the expression of deep feeling, the attainment of great physical comfort and occasionally the literal rending of garments -- drew disciples from around the world. PAGE D8
Sports
N.F.L. POSTPONES GAME
Because of Blizzard
Some of the most memorable games in N.F.L. history have been played in terrible weather. But the league made a different kind of history, postponing the Sunday night game between the Eagles and the Vikings in Philadelphia until Tuesday because of a blizzard in the Northeast. Moving an outdoor N.F.L. game because of snow is exceedingly rare. The league said the last time it had happened was in 1932, and it will be the first N.F.L. game on a Tuesday since 1946. PAGE D1
THE WOMEN'S GAME GROWS
As Donna Orender ends her six-year run this week as the W.N.B.A.'s commissioner, she took a moment to reflect on just how far the women's game has grown in popularity and talent. Harvey Araton, On Basketball. PAGE D6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); MEDICAID (89%); FAMILY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); CITIES (85%); CITY GOVERNMENT (85%); LITIGATION (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MARSHALS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); MAY 2010 GAZA FLOTILLA RAID (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); MAYORS (66%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ASSET FORFEITURE (64%); RETAILERS (62%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); RELIGION (57%); SOCCER (55%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (70%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); BERNARD MADOFF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); EGYPT (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



744 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Medicaid Bonuses to Reward States for Insuring More Children

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
The Obama administration plans to announce Monday that it will make $206 million in bonus Medicaid payments to 15 states -- with more than a fourth of the total going to Alabama -- for signing up children who are eligible for public health insurance but had previously failed to enroll.
The payments, which were established when Congress and President Obama reauthorized the Children's Health Insurance Program in 2009, are aimed at one of the most persistent frustrations in government health care: the inability to enroll an estimated 4.7 million children who would be eligible for subsidized coverage if their families could be found and alerted. Two of every three uninsured children are thought to meet the income criteria for government insurance programs. 
Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, has called the matter ''a moral obligation'' and has challenged health care providers, state and local governments and community groups to seek out eligible children.
The stubbornness of the problem is one reason the government expects millions of people to remain uninsured even after 2014, when the new health care law requires most Americans to have coverage and vastly expands government programs to make it affordable.
The bonus grants are distributed according to a formula. To qualify, states must have adopted at least five of eight measures aimed at streamlining enrollment for children in public insurance programs and have recorded Medicaid caseload increases that could not be attributed solely to a worsening economy. Thirty-two states did not even apply for the grants. Three of the 18 that did apply did not qualify for payments.
Alabama will receive a $55 million bonus, more than twice as much as any other state, for having 133,000 more children on its Medicaid rolls than projected by a formulated base line, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. The 15 states that will receive bonuses reported a total of 874,347 children above the baseline, which factors in population growth and, to some degree, demand driven by the economy.
To make enrollment easier, Alabama has eliminated asset tests for children, ended requirements for an in-person interview and allowed children to remain eligible for a year without renewal. It also sends out renewal forms with blanks filled in when data is known, and allows applicants to verify their forms with an electronic signature. The state has adopted ''express lane eligibility'' so that Medicaid application processors can use income findings from other safety net programs to validate eligibility.
''We are absolutely ecstatic about the $55 million,'' said Lee A. Rawlinson, Alabama's deputy Medicaid commissioner. ''It just could not have come at a better time for the state. And had we not had all these streamlining efforts we would never have been able to get to these applications and get all these children awarded.''
Oregon, which will receive a $15 million bonus, made many of the same refinements, while also extending coverage to more children. ''Without these efforts to make enrollment simplified, the resources we put into outreach and marketing would be wasted,'' said Cathy H. Kaufmann, administrator of Oregon Healthy Kids, which encompasses both Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program. ''We'd have driven thousands of people to the front door but many of them wouldn't be able to get in.''
Because of the formula's requirements, none of the money will go to California, Texas or Florida, which account for nearly 40 percent of all uninsured children. Nor will any go to the four states that do the best job of signing up eligible children -- Massachusetts, Vermont, Maine and Hawaii.
A study published in the journal Health Affairs estimated the national participation rate among children eligible for Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program at 82 percent in 2008. Thirteen states had rates below 80 percent, with Nevada at only 55 percent. Ms. Sebelius said in an interview that it would be ''a huge win for kids'' if the rate could be pushed to 90 percent.
A third of all children are now insured by two programs, compared with 10 percent of nonelderly adults, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. Medicaid covers 24 million children, most of them living below the poverty line, and the Children's Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, picks up nearly eight million in families with slightly higher incomes.
The programs' costs are shared by the federal government and the states. Washington sets income-based eligibility thresholds, which states can exceed.
But in times of economic distress, the pressure on states, which must balance their budgets, is to reduce costs in the revenue-draining programs. One traditional method for doing so has been to make enrollment cumbersome and to devote minimal resources to marketing.
''We've long had a problem, more in some states than others, with an application process that is riddled with red tape,'' said Cindy Mann, who oversees the federal Medicaid program.
The bonus grants are intended to make it worth a state's while to enroll and retain eligible children. That has been crucial, officials said, at a time when job losses have increased the number of people who qualify for assistance.
Recessionary pressures drove total Medicaid enrollment to 50 million in 2009, up 2.4 million over 2008, with half the increase among children.
''We're still fighting a bit of an uphill battle at this particular juncture,'' Ms. Sebelius said. ''What's been encouraging is that even in this time of economic downturn, states continue to push enrollment in CHIP and Medicaid.''
Because of expanded eligibility and simplified enrollment, the percentage of children without insurance has actually declined this decade, even as the percentage of uninsured adults has soared, according to a study by John Holahan, director of the Urban Institute Health Policy Center. He estimated that about 10 percent of children were uninsured in 2009, the lowest rate in more than a quarter-century. That compares with 23 percent of nonelderly adults.
The Children's Health Insurance Program reauthorization, a Democratic initiative that passed with modest Republican support, also authorized grants to states and community groups to help identify eligible children. The Department of Health and Human Services awarded $40 million in such grants last year, along with $75 million to 10 states in the first round of bonus payments.
Alabama was the big winner last year, too. Other states receiving bonus payments this year are Alaska, Colorado, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Washington and Wisconsin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary, has called the matter ''a moral obligation.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); FAMILY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); DIGITAL SIGNATURES (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



745 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Year of the Tablet, Take 2?

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

 BODY:
Last year, as 2009 came to a close, I wrote a blog post predicting that 2010 would be the ''Year of the Tablet.'' This was several months before the Apple iPad was announced by Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive. 
I said then that 2010 would bring a number of tablet computers to the market, including innovative products from Apple, Microsoft, Google and other PC manufacturers, that would change the face of computing and the way we consume magazines, newspapers, video and other Web content.
So much for predictions. Most tablets and slates didn't even make it out of the starting gate. For example, the Microsoft Courier, an innovative color dual-screen tablet, was shelved by the company, and we still don't know why. The Google Tablet, long rumored, has yet to be announced. And other products, including Hearst's Skiff Reader, were either killed or postponed.
So what happened to the year of the tablet? The answer is simple: the iPad. Apple offered a slatelike computer that incorporated its perfected iTunes app experience, at the right price point, and with an intuitive interface that helped the company quickly sell millions of its newfangled device.
As we move into 2011, the murmurs coming out of the next Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas all have to do with tablets again. There will be Microsoft tablets, Hewlett-Packard slates and a number of devices running the Google Android platform. All hope to take on Apple. And so we're looking at another Year of the Tablet.
Reports released throughout the year by Forrester Research and IDC, market research firms that track electronics usage and sales, say that the tablet market is going to explode in the coming years. IDC predicts that 42 million tablets will be sold in the United States in 2011 alone.
But who can stand up to Apple? Rumors are already flying around the Web about the new range of features consumers can expect in the iPad 2, including dual-facing cameras and a possibly smaller design.
Companies that hope to compete with Apple will most likely fail - as many have done before - if they try to entice consumers by offering devices with extra peripherals, larger screens and other technical upgrades.
But some will not. Google, which has been working hard to upgrade its Android and Chrome operating systems to work on larger screens and slatelike computers, may yet come up with a competitive product. But let's hope it's in the next year, or else we may be predicting yet another year of the tablet in 2012.
What do you think? What companies do you think will be the main contenders in the new market for tablets? Please share your thoughts in the comments below.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TABLET COMPUTERS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (87%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (76%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); EXECUTIVES (57%); TRADE SHOWS (51%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010



746 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Why Chapter 11 Cases Are Shrinking

BYLINE: STEPHEN J. LUBBEN


HIGHLIGHT: Big bankruptcies are fading, with A.&#038;P. becoming the ninth-largest Chapter 11 case of the year - but the improving economy alone does not explain the change. 

 BODY:
As recently noted on Dealbook, the Chapter 11 world ended the year with more of a whimper than a bang. Most recently, the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company became the ninth-largest Chapter 11 case of 2010, in a year that had only 15 filings involving assets of more than $1 billion, compared with 45 similar filings in 2009. 
To some degree this is not surprising, because big Chapter 11 cases ebb and flow with the broader economy. In 2007 there were only six cases involving assets of more than $1 billion.
But given the uncertainty about the state of the economy, and the frequent rash comparisonsof the United States with Greece, Ireland and even California, it seems that the economy alone cannot explain why the number of big Chapter 11 cases has fallen so sharply.
One obvious reason for the decline is the revitalization of the junk bond markets, which have allowed many distressed debtors to kick the can down the road until the next round of debt maturities. Whether this trend is stable over the long term is unclear, particularly in light of preliminary indications that interest rates may be on the upswing. If the junk bond markets close or, more realistically, cool down, Chapter 11 filings could pick up 12 months from now.
Another reason for the decline in Chapter 11 filings may hinge on changes in the capital structures of distressed firms. 
An example of this may be seen in the Realogy Corporation's recent exchange offer. 
The conventional wisdom is that exchange offers almost never work, because of the requirement in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 that any material changes to bond indentures obtain unanimous consent of bondholders. The provisions of the act in this regard are intentional, as William O. Douglas wanted to channel all the action in this area into the more formal federal bankruptcy system, which was heavily amended at the same time the Trust Indenture Act was passed.
Yet Realogy has apparently succeeded. Why? Part of the story has to be the growth of hedge funds and private equity in the distressed debt markets. These parties tend to concentrate holdings of distressed debt in a way that makes it possible to execute an exchange offer -- so long as these big bondholders are sympathetic to the deal.
Of course, this cuts both ways. A few years ago Realogy tried and failed with another exchange offer. The concentration of its creditors, and their sophistication, no doubt helped thwart that deal.

        
Live: the Blockbuster Auction
        
Blockbuster and the Pushback by Unsecured Creditors

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TEA (90%); BONDS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Chapter 11; Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co; Realogy; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Douglas, William O; Credit and Debt; Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Incorporated; Realogy Corp; Food & Beverage; In Debt; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GREAT ATLANTIC & PACIFIC TEA CO INC (91%); REALOGY CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Incorporated; Realogy Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (91%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (91%); NAICS541191 TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT OFFICES (82%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (82%)

PERSON: Douglas, William O

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



747 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Michigan Town Is Left Pleading For Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
HAMTRAMCK, Mich. -- Leaders of this city met for more than seven hours on a Saturday not long ago, searching for something to cut from a budget that has already been cut, over and over.
This time they slashed money for boarding up abandoned houses -- aside from circumstances like vagrants or obvious rats, said William J. Cooper, the city manager. They shrank money for trimming trees and cutting grass on hundreds of lots that have been left to the city. And Mr. Cooper is hoping that predictions of a ferocious snow season prove false; once state road money runs out, the city has set nothing aside to plow streets.
''We can make it until March 1 -- maybe,'' Mr. Cooper said of Hamtramck's ability to pay its bills. Beyond that? The political leaders of this old working-class city almost surrounded by Detroit are pleading with the state to let them declare bankruptcy, a desperate move the state is not even willing to admit as an option under the current circumstances. 
''The state is concerned that if they say yes to one, if that door is opened, they'll have 30 more cities right behind us,'' Mr. Cooper said, as flurries fell outside his City Hall window. ''But anything else is just a stop gap. We're going to continue to pursue bankruptcy until the door is shut, locked, barricaded, bolted.''
Bankruptcy, increasingly common among corporations and individuals, remains rare for municipalities. Local leaders who want to win elections find it unappealing and often have other choices for solving financial woes. Besides, states have a say in whether a municipality may pursue bankruptcy at all, and they have every reason to avoid such an outcome, not least of all for fear of a creating a ripple effect that could cripple the municipal bond market and drive up the cost of borrowing.
Yet with anemic property tax revenues and forecasts of more dire financial times ahead, some experts and elected leaders fear that more localities may have to at least consider bankruptcy.
''There could be many cities in this position next year,'' said Summer Hallwood Minnick, director of state affairs for the Michigan Municipal League, who added that in this state, cities had already struggled with billions less than expected in state revenue sharing. ''All our communities have done is cut, cut, cut. They're down to four-day workweeks and the elimination of parks, senior centers, all of that. So if there's anything else that happens, they will be over the edge.''
This month, the authorities in Rhode Island said the City of Central Falls could face bankruptcy if immediate, drastic changes -- perhaps the city's annexation into a neighboring municipality -- failed. Some leaders in Harrisburg, Pa., which owes millions in debt payments tied to an incinerator project, say bankruptcy may eventually be the only choice.
Prichard, Ala., which stopped paying monthly checks to retired city workers when its pension fund ran out last year, is appealing a bankruptcy judge's ruling that it did not qualify for Chapter 9 under Alabama law.
Only about 600 cities, counties, towns and special taxation districts have filed for bankruptcy (known as Chapter 9 for these sorts of entities) since 1937, said James E. Spiotto, a municipal bankruptcy expert at Chapman & Cutler, a law firm in Chicago, and fewer than 250 in the last three decades. In part, it can be hard -- even impossible -- to do: about half the states have statutes authorizing such filings, but some of them set limits or require elaborate approval processes. Other states have no specific provision allowing cities to pursue bankruptcy, and at least one, Georgia, bans such moves.
So far, the financial misery of the past two years has not caused a surge in bankruptcy applications; about 15 municipalities pursued bankruptcy in the last two years. But if revenue forecasts continue as predicted, 2011 might bring a rise in cities faced with such a fate.
Hamtramck (pronounced ham-TRAM-eck) did not anticipate its current circumstances. Officials in Detroit announced this year that they had for years overpaid Hamtramck in a revenue-sharing deal related to a General Motors plant that sits smack on the border of the two cities. The dispute is likely to be resolved, eventually, in court, but meanwhile, Detroit has stopped paying $2 million a year, and Hamtramck is watching a growing gap in its $18 million budget.
Here, the urgent search for services to cut has turned all attention to a realm that is also emerging at the center of budget debates in cities and states around the country: the costs of salaries, benefits and pensions of public workers.
Mr. Cooper, the city manager, says that everything else that could be cut already has been, while the city goes on spending 60 percent of its total general fund to pay for its police and firefighting forces -- 75 current police officers and firefighters and about 240 former workers and spouses now on pensions. Mr. Cooper said that an entry-level police officer costs the city about $75,000 a year in salary and benefits, and yet repeated efforts to renegotiate contracts have failed.
''They kind of have the Cadillac plan,'' Mr. Cooper said, ''and we'd kind of like the Chevy.''
The police and firefighters question whether the city's bankruptcy talk is really just a scare tactic for negotiation. Earlier discussions with city officials, they say, have urged them to accept pay cuts, layoffs, increased worker payments to pensions and even a suggestion that officers might pay for part of their own bulletproof vests -- all this while the city has opted not to increase taxes.
''Nobody likes the police until you need them,'' said Jon Bondra, the incoming president of Hamtramck's police union.
(Found, Mr. Cooper says, posted on the wall of the firefighters' barracks was his name -- crossed out -- on a list of former city managers and the word ''Next?'')
Hamtramck, all 2.1 square miles of it, is a gritty city, a proud one and a place ''that can do more with less than anywhere on earth,'' in the view of Greg Kowalski, 60, who has lived here since childhood. Immigrants have arrived in waves over time, leaving layers like sedimentary rock -- from Germany, Poland, Bosnia, Albania, Bangladesh, Yemen and more. Along Joseph Campau Street on a recent morning, a woman in a burqa strolled past Stan's Grocery, which boasts about its Polish pierogi and kielbasa.
Hamtramck -- once a community of more than 50,000 people but now fewer than half of that -- grew up around an enormous auto factory that John and Horace Dodge built here a century ago. It remains a city woven together by union history, a fact that makes the turmoil filtering out from City Hall all the more pronounced.
''Look, if I was king of the world, I'd give them all a million dollars,'' Charles Sercombe, the editor of The Hamtramck Review, the local newspaper, said of police officers and firefighters. ''But this is the new economy, welcome to it.'' He noted that his own job was now part time and that he received no health benefits.
Although Mr. Cooper says he believes bankruptcy, which could allow the city to ''start over'' with its labor contracts, is the only solution, the authorities in the State of Michigan have so far rejected the city's request that the governor issue an executive order allowing Hamtramck to file for bankruptcy. An official from the state's Treasury Department said that no city in Michigan had gone through bankruptcy, and that the governor had no such authority; the state has specific provisions for authorizing a bankruptcy filing, including intervention from an emergency financial manager and an emergency loan board. The current administration, which will be departing later this week, has urged Hamtramck to seek state assistance, including a possible emergency loan.
Rick Snyder, a Republican who is to be sworn in as governor of Michigan on Saturday, said the circumstances in Hamtramck concerned him, particularly for what it might bode elsewhere.
''We could have a large number of jurisdictions facing insolvency,'' Mr. Snyder said. ''Major reinvention'' will be a necessity, he added, including taking a serious look at the structure of local governments and the possibility, in some places, of consolidation of services.
A new fear is bubbling up along the streets here: that Hamtramck, in so much fiscal distress, may ultimately disappear (either through bankruptcy or, simply, default), and wind up sharing services with or becoming a part of Detroit, a place many here describe as painfully rundown and unsafe.
''I'm not going to wait for two hours for a cop to show up,'' said Shannon Lowell, the co-owner of a coffee shop. ''We've trimmed every bit of fat. What else are we going to do? Borrow money from our dying grandmother?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vacant stores along the main street in Hamtramck, Mich. At the center of the budget debate are the costs of salaries, benefits and pensions of public workers.
 ''We can make it until March 1 -- maybe,'' William J. Cooper, the city manager, said of Hamtramck's ability to pay its bills. Above, Steve Brummer, a firefighter. The police and firefighters question whether the city's bankruptcy talk and the urgent search for services to cut is really just a scare tactic for budget negotiations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) MAP: Hamtramck faces a growing gap in its $18 million budget. (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); BONDS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



748 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: The Data And The Reality

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
I keep hearing from the data zealots that holiday sales were impressive and the outlook for the economy in 2011 is not bad.
Maybe they've stumbled onto something in their windowless rooms. Maybe the economy really is gathering steam. But in the rough and tumble of the real world, where families have to feed themselves and pay their bills, there are an awful lot of Americans being left behind.
A continuing national survey of workers who lost their jobs during the Great Recession, conducted by two professors at Rutgers University, offers anything but a rosy view of the economic prospects for ordinary Americans. It paints, instead, a portrait filled with gloom. 
More than 15 million Americans are officially classified as jobless. The professors, at the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers, have been following their representative sample of workers since the summer of 2009. The report on their latest survey, just out this month, is titled: ''The Shattered American Dream: Unemployed Workers Lose Ground, Hope, and Faith in Their Futures.''
Over the 15 months that the surveys have been conducted, just one-quarter of the workers have found full-time jobs, nearly all of them for less pay and with fewer or no benefits. ''For those who remain unemployed,'' the report says, ''the cupboard has long been bare.''
These were not the folks being coldly and precisely monitored, classified and quantified as they made their way to the malls to kick-start the economy. These were among the many millions of Americans who spent the holidays hurting.
As the report states: ''The recession has been a cataclysm that will have an enduring effect. It is hard to overstate the dire shape of the unemployed.''
Nearly two-thirds of the unemployed workers who were surveyed have been out of work for a year or more. More than a third have been jobless for two years. With their savings exhausted, many have borrowed money from relatives or friends, sold possessions to make ends meet and decided against medical examinations or treatments they previously would have considered essential.
Older workers who are jobless are caught in a particularly precarious state of affairs. As the report put it:
''We are witnessing the birth of a new class -- the involuntarily retired. Many of those over age 50 believe they will not work again at a full-time 'real' job commensurate with their education and training. More than one-quarter say they expect to retire earlier than they want, which has long-term consequences for themselves and society. Many will file for Social Security as soon as they are eligible, despite the fact that they would receive greater benefits if they were able to delay retiring for a few years.''
There is a fundamental disconnect between economic indicators pointing in a positive direction and the experience of millions of American families fighting desperately to fend off destitution. Some three out of every four Americans have been personally touched by the recession -- either they've lost a job or a relative or close friend has. And the outlook, despite the spin being put on the latest data, is not promising.
No one is forecasting a substantial reduction in unemployment rates next year. And, as Motoko Rich reported in The Times this month, temporary workers accounted for 80 percent of the 50,000 jobs added by private sector employers in November.
Carl Van Horn, the director of the Heldrich Center and one of the two professors (the other is Cliff Zukin) conducting the survey, said he was struck by how pessimistic some of the respondents have become -- not just about their own situation but about the nation's future. The survey found that workers in general are increasingly accepting the notion that the effects of the recession will be permanent, that they are the result of fundamental changes in the national economy.
''They're losing the idea that if you are determined and work hard, you can get ahead,'' said Dr. Van Horn. ''They're losing that sense of optimism. They don't think that they or their children are going to fare particularly well.''
The fact that so many Americans are out of work, or working at jobs that don't pay well, undermines the prospects for a robust recovery. Jobless people don't buy a lot of flat-screen TVs. What we're really seeing is an erosion of standards of living for an enormous portion of the population, including a substantial segment of the once solid middle class.
Not only is this not being addressed, but the self-serving, rightward lurch in Washington is all but guaranteed to make matters worse for working people. The zealots reading the economic tea leaves see brighter days ahead. They can afford to be sanguine. They're working.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATISTICS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); DISMISSALS (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); OLDER WORKERS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



749 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Rebound, Beating Forecasts

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD; Karen Ann Cullotta and Christopher Maag contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Americans are splurging as though it's 2007 again.
Shoppers spent more money this holiday season than even before the recession, according to preliminary retail data released on Monday.
After a 6 percent free fall in 2008 and a 4 percent uptick last year, retail spending rose 5.5 percent in the 50 days before Christmas, exceeding even the more optimistic forecasts, according to MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, which tracks retail spending.
The rise was seen in just about every retail category. Apparel led the way, with an increase of 11.2 percent. Jewelry was up 8.4 percent, and luxury goods like handbags and expensive department-store clothes increased 6.7 percent. There was even a slight increase in purchases of home furniture, which had four consecutive years of declining sales. The figures include in-store and online sales, and exclude autos. 
''For the past year or two, when I've seen growth in one area, it seems to come at the expense of another,'' said Michael McNamara, vice president for research and analysis at SpendingPulse. ''Here, things are actually all moving in the right direction.''
Of course, the broad increase was driven in part by higher spending on necessities like gas and food. And even with the across-the-board gains, some categories, like furniture and electronics, have still not climbed back to their prerecession levels.
Several retailers will report December sales in January, and they are trying to finish the month strong. A blizzard on the East Coast may have kept away shoppers on Dec. 26, when stores typically try to capitalize on store traffic for exchanges, returns and gift cards. But analysts said that the stores would not lose those sales -- they would just be pushed later in the month, or into January.
The MasterCard data suggests that the pre-Christmas sales increase was the biggest in five years. Spending reached about $584.3 billion, compared with $566.3 billion in that period in 2007.
The 5.5 percent rise beat even the retail industry's projections. The National Retail Federation was expecting a 3.3 percent improvement, and the ShopperTrak research service anticipated a 4 percent increase (both excluded automobiles, gas and restaurants).
''In the face of 10 percent unemployment and persistent housing woes, the American consumer has single-handedly picked himself off the mat, brushed his troubles off and strapped the U.S. economy on his back,'' Craig R. Johnson, the president of the consulting firm Customer Growth Partners, wrote in an e-mail.
Analysts offered several theories for the rebound in spending while the unemployment rate remained stubbornly high.
Stocks have soared to their highest levels in more than two years, giving those with higher incomes greater freedom to spend. Luxury stores like Tiffany and Saks Fifth Avenue, for example, have been posting big sales increases.
Pent-up demand is also showing up among middle-income shoppers: in government surveys, consumers have been expressing rising confidence for the last five months.
The luxury segment started heating up in late summer, said Joel Bines, a director in the global retail practice at AlixPartners.
''That trickled down to the upper- to midtier consumer, and then the midtier consumer,'' he said. Once the luxury market stabilized, confidence seems to have spread, ''in the media, at work, with your friends,'' he said.
The sales figures were bolstered by improved inventory controls among many retailers. After two years of heavy discounting, retailers cut the number of products they held in stock rooms, in an attempt to train shoppers to buy items at full price rather than wait for sales. The strategy seems to have worked.
Shoppers browsing through after-Christmas sales said in interviews that they were still hunting for deals, but they were also feeling that the economy was stabilizing after three years of merciless uncertainty.
In Pontiac, Ill., Gwen Hilsabeck rose at 4 a.m. Sunday for a 90-minute drive through snow flurries from her house to the upstate Woodfield Mall in Schaumburg, northwest of Chicago.
''I bought two dresses on sale at Ann Taylor, and I bought four dresses on the clearance rack at Nordstrom,'' said Ms. Hilsabeck, a manager at a hospice company who said she had spent $800 to $900 so far.
''I'm spending more on myself because I'm starting to feel a little more at ease,'' she said, ''and my 401(k) has stopped going down.''
Where the snowstorms were not a factor, stores prepared for a wave of shoppers using gift cards. At J. C. Penney, Dec. 26 is usually the second-biggest day of the year in volume of transactions, including returns, exchanges and new purchases, said Myron E. Ullman III, the company's chairman and chief executive.
J. C. Penney tries to attract teenagers, who are frequent recipients of gift cards, on Dec. 26 by bringing in new merchandise. People ''have got money in their hand if they've got a gift card,'' Mr. Ullman said.
Indeed, gift cards continued to be popular this year, and some shoppers said they were trying to maximize their value by using them during after-Christmas sales.
''It lets you shop the day after Christmas, so you can save a lot of money,'' Shelly Lara, 42, an in-home nurse from Ashtabula, Ohio, said on Sunday.
She said that even though her family was doing fine financially, the Cleveland Clinic, which owned her company, had announced some layoffs, and her husband's company had stopped contributing to his 401(k) for six months.
''There were some scares,'' Ms. Lara said. ''We wanted to make sure we got the most for our money.''
Stores seemed to have planned for the holiday season appropriately, with few resorting to the huge price slashing of the last couple of years.
''There was a good match between inventory and demand,'' Mr. McNamara of SpendingPulse said. ''I didn't see any evidence of unusual discounting.''
For shoppers, that meant that the hunt for deals was a bit harder after Christmas this year.
''I remember a few years ago when you could double your money if you went shopping the day after Christmas,'' said Kim Rayburn, 40, a hairdresser who was looking at costume jewelry at Forever 21 at Polaris Fashion Place in Columbus, Ohio, with her daughter Samantha, 12. ''It's not like that anymore. Now it seems just like a regular shopping day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ana Peci, 11, shopped with her sister Erjona, background, using gift cards on Sunday at the J. C. Penney store in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (91%); RETAILERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



750 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: The Sidney Awards, Part II

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The Sidney Awards go to some of the best magazine essays of the year. The one-man jury is biased against political essays, since politics already gets so much coverage. But the jury is biased in favor of pieces that illuminate the ideas and conditions undergirding political events.
For example, there's been a lot of talk this year about trying to reduce corruption in Afghanistan, Iraq and across the Middle East. But in a piece in The American Interest called ''Understanding Corruption,'' Lawrence Rosen asks: What does corruption mean? 
For Westerners, it means one set of things: bribery and nepotism, etc. But when Rosen asks people in the Middle East what corruption is, he gets variations on an entirely different meaning: ''Corruption is the failure to share any largess you have received with those with whom you have formed ties of dependence.''
Our view of corruption makes sense in a nation of laws and impersonal institutions. But, Rosen explains, ''Theirs is a world in which the defining feature of a man is that he has formed a web of indebtedness, a network of obligations that prove his capacity to maneuver in a world of relentless uncertainty.'' So to not give a job to a cousin is corrupt; to not do deals with tribesmen is corrupt. Reducing corruption in Afghanistan is not a question of replacing President Hamid Karzai with a more honest man. It's a deeper process.
In earlier ages, people consulted oracles. We consult studies. We rely on scientific findings to guide health care decisions, policy making and much else. But in an essay called ''The Truth Wears Off'' in The New Yorker, Jonah Lehrer reports on something strange.
He describes a class of antipsychotic drugs, whose effectiveness was demonstrated by several large clinical trials. But in a subsequent batch of studies, the therapeutic power of the drugs appeared to wane precipitously.
This is not an isolated case. ''But now all sorts of well-established, multiply confirmed findings have started to look increasingly uncertain,'' Lehrer writes. ''It's as if our facts were losing their truth: claims that have been enshrined in textbooks are suddenly unprovable.''
The world is fluid. Bias and randomness can creep in from all directions. For example, between 1966 and 1995 there were 47 acupuncture studies conducted in Japan, Taiwan and China, and they all found it to be an effective therapy. There were 94 studies in the U.S., Sweden and Britain, and only 56 percent showed benefits. The lesson is not to throw out studies, but to never underestimate the complexity of the world around.
There's been a lot written about Detroit, but Charlie LeDuff's essay ''Who Killed Aiyana Stanley-Jones'' in Mother Jones packs a special power. It starts with a killing of a little girl in a police raid, then pulls back to the idiotic murder of a teenage boy that precipitated the raid -- that murder victim may have smirked at his killer for riding a moped.
Then LeDuff touches on the decay all around -- a city in which 80 percent of the eighth graders are unable to do basic math, the crime lab was closed because of ineptitude, 500 fires are set every month and 50 percent of the drivers are operating without a license.
LeDuff, a former reporter for The Times, travels from broad context to the specific details -- from the collapse of the industrial economy to the fact that a local minister was left with the girl's $4,000 funeral costs, claiming the girl's father ran off with the donations.
In an essay in Foreign Affairs called ''The Demographic Future,'' Nicholas Eberstadt describes the coming global manpower decline. Over the next two decades, for example, there will be a 30 percent decline in the number of Chinese between the ages of 15 and 29 -- 100 million fewer workers.
Tyler Cowen wrote a superb, counterintuitive piece on income inequality for The American Interest called ''The Inequality That Matters.'' It's filled with interesting observations. For example, the inequality that really bites is local -- the guy down the street who can spend three bucks more for a case of beer, not Bill Gates's billions across the country.
But his main insight is this. Smart people, especially in the financial sector, now have tremendous incentives to take great risks. If the risks fail, they still have millions in the bank. If the risks pay off, they get enormously rich. The result is a society with more inequality and more financial instability. It's not clear we know how to address this phenomenon.
Finally, two historical essays deserve mention. Adam Gopnick wrote a fresh piece on Winston Churchill for The New Yorker called ''Finest Hours.'' Anne Applebaum wrote a chilling essay on central Europe in the 20th century called ''The Worst of the Madness'' in The New York Review of Books. (The online version of this column has links to the essays.)
I've been doing these awards for several years now. This was the richest year, with the best essays.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BRIBERY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TEXTBOOKS (69%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (65%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (64%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (88%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



751 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CARACAS JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: A Venezuelan Oasis of Elitism Counts Its Days

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Sandra La Fuente P. contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- The golfers still argue over handicaps. The waiters still serve flutes of Moet & Chandon. Sunlight still kisses the grounds laid out in the 1920s by Olmsted Brothers, the esteemed American landscape architects.
The idyll of the Caracas Country Club, a bastion of opulence for Venezuela's elite, still seems intact.
But perhaps not for much longer.
Beneath the veneer of tranquillity, a feeling of dread prevails. A state newspaper published a study this month saying that if the government expropriated the land of the Caracas Country Club and that of another club in the city, housing for 4,000 poor families could be built on the parcels. 
The idea is hardly far-fetched. After all, the government has seized hundreds of businesses this year alone, and thousands of people are homeless because of heavy rains, accentuating a severe housing shortage. At the behest of President Hugo Chavez, flood victims have already moved into hotels, museums, the Foreign Ministry and even his own office. (Mr. Chavez says he will stay in a tent given him by Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.)
''We are waiting,'' said Manuel Fuentes, 69, the country club's vice president, in the English he learned as a teenager while studying at the New York Military Academy. ''It would be a tragedy for the city to lose such an icon, but it's a scenario we've been forced to acknowledge.''
In many ways, it is remarkable that such a club still exists here at all, given the expropriation of so many private companies this year, whether cattle ranches or construction firms. Some of the seized assets were owned by members of the Caracas Country Club, but somehow the club and its leisure pursuits, like show jumping, seemed to escape unscathed.
The club embodies the contradictions of Venezuela and its Socialist-inspired revolution, in which the moneyed elite still lead lives of luxury, even if their cloistered existence is often marked by resignation and fear. Members say the cost of joining, once $150,000, is now down to about $100,000, reflecting, in part, anxiety about belonging to a club in the government's crosshairs.
Like a relic of an earlier time, the club stands for so much of what Mr. Chavez is against. But while many of its members chafe against the government's attempts to exert greater control over the economy, some have seen their fortunes grow through quiet deals with Mr. Chavez's government.
Adding to the rub, the club's ties to one of Mr. Chavez's favorite foils, the United States, are so deep that a former American ambassador, C. Allan Stewart, died of a heart attack while golfing on its greens and the names of its founders, including a cadre of American oilmen, are inscribed on its walls.
After this uneasy coexistence, Mr. Chavez called on this city's golf courses last month to ''put their hand on their hearts'' to assist or house flood evacuees. If not, he said in a not-so-veiled threat, ''we'll put their hand there for them.''
The reaction to the club's predicament reflects that of the polarized country itself. Jose Bejarano, 34, a motorbike courier who works in a neighborhood on the club's southern fringe, said it was hard to shed any tears for such an island of privilege.
''We're in a national emergency, and the club has empty land that can be used for the poor,'' he said.
Only a short stroll away, Antonio Jerez, 42, a newsstand owner, said a takeover of the club would be folly. ''Our president respects no one, as if he's the only one entitled to the good things in life,'' he said.
Almost drowned out in the whole debate is the option, supported by some of the club's own members, that its golf course be made into a public park in a city badly in need of green space.
The club has faced challenges to its autonomy before. In 2006, the mayor of Caracas abruptly ordered the acquisition of its golf course. But maneuvering by the club's lawyers and infighting among the president's allies halted the takeover.
Much has changed since 2006, however, explaining the pall that settled over the club this month. Mr. Chavez, who is known to publicly telegraph his expropriation targets, said on state television that he could see the club's expanses of land, its empty golf course, from overhead in his helicopter.
Club directors responded by saying the 18-hole course was exposed to flooding, too, making it impractical to pitch tents for evacuees on the premises. They said they were already providing employees and their families, many of whom live in nearby slums, with assistance during the floods.
Now the stately clubhouse, which few Venezuelans aside from the 2,000 members and their guests ever enter, is rife with speculation over what will happen. One recent morning around the hair salon, rumors swirled among employees that federal officials had already conducted a secret inspection of the club.
''Someone commented that they had seen them,'' said a member of the club as she passed the salon, asking that her name not be used because of the kidnapping threat for wealthy people in the public eye here. As for the supposed inspectors, she added, ''It's not that they got in.''
To arrive at the club, one must drive through a leafy district of private mansions called (in English, of course) Country Club. Once inside the grounds, it is easy to bump into prominent members of the upper crust that Mr. Chavez derides, like Peter Bottome, 72, one of the owners of RCTV, a television network critical of the president that was forced off the public airwaves in 2007.
''Private property, what's that?'' Mr. Bottome joked as he was getting a haircut in the barber shop.
Elsewhere, servants dashed about under the chandeliers. Macaws screeched from their perches in the saman trees. Bon vivants, dressed in blazers as per club rules, sipped whisky and puffed on cigars in El Pinguino, the club's air-conditioned bar, in a scene that would not have been out of place in pre-revolutionary Havana.
Some members contend that Mr. Chavez's rise had already changed life within the club forever, reflecting a chasm between members who have openly clashed with the president and others who have discreetly opted to profit from contracts with his government.
The emergence of a new class of magnates -- called Boligarchs for their quick accumulation of wealth and their ties to the government, which reveres Simon Bolivar, the 19th-century liberation hero -- also brought change to the club's doorstep.
Some Boligarchs, like Wilmer Ruperti, an oil tanker tycoon, bought mansions close to the club, even if they never joined it. Another pro-government businessman, Diego Salazar, is a member. A senior public official or two are even occasionally glimpsed on the club's grounds. Their presence captures the rise of one elite and the decline of another, and the sometimes awkward dance between these groups as this process unfolds.
Vanessa Neumann, a writer whose grandfather was a major industrialist here, described a recent show jumping competition at the club attended by Alejandro Andrade, a former military official and now Venezuela's national treasurer. She said the fawning around Mr. Andrade, a noted horse aficionado who moves with ease in such rarefied circles, was more entertaining than the show jumping itself.
''You see the government apparatchiks paying private homage to the oligarchy they publicly ridicule, and vice versa,'' Ms. Neumann said of the atmosphere at the club that day. ''The former out of a desire to belong, the latter out of a desire to survive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: El Pinguino bar at the Caracas Country Club, a last bastion of gracious living that President Hugo Chavez has his eye on. (A1)
A trio of golfers at the Caracas Country Club in Venezuela. President Hugo Chavez has signaled plans to expropriate the club.
 Many Venezuelans live in cinder-block houses blanketing the hills in Caracas. Recent flooding displaced thousands. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); EMINENT DOMAIN (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); WEATHER (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); DEATHS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (54%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (53%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (50%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



752 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: A New City Team Helps Steer Restaurateurs Through a Bureaucratic Thicket

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Opening a restaurant in New York City can be as frustrating as trying to brown a wet sirloin. Given worries over fire safety, food-borne illness and waste disposal, a new restaurant may have to contend with as many as 11 city agencies, often with conflicting requirements; secure 30 permits, registrations, licenses and certificates; and pass 23 inspections.
And it will still have to go to the state for a liquor license. 
Last month, Erica Livingston, a writer and performer, started preparing to open a cafe with the Fourth Arts Block, a nonprofit arts group in the East Village. She and Tamara Greenfield, the group's executive director, were amazed by the list of permits they needed. ''It was frightening,'' Ms. Greenfield said.
But then they met Sohair Botros, a city employee who coordinated their applications and inspections, coached them on how to win approvals, and became their one-stop source for surviving the process.
Ms. Botros is part of the city's New Business Acceleration Team, a pilot program that began quietly in March and is now being expanded to help restaurateurs through a bureaucratic maze that is generally more complex than what is required for any other kind of entrepreneur.
''You need help because there are all these tiny things,'' Ms. Livingston said at the cafe, as Ms. Botros went over the final details. ''You need that checklist, like the door has to shut on its own, and you have to have a test kit this close to the sink.''
After making sure that the tap water was hot enough and the refrigerator light bulb was properly sheathed, Ms. Botros -- who worked for a month on the project with the two women, occasionally calling them to make sure they had taken time to eat -- hooked her laptop up to a portable printer and issued the temporary operating permit. Ms. Livingston gave her a hug.
It was not the typical response of a restaurateur to a city inspector, but it may become more common as the Bloomberg administration begins re-engineering the way it deals with the food service industry.
''Restaurants are obviously a big part of the New York City landscape, culture and economy,'' said Stephen Goldsmith, the deputy mayor for operations, ''and yet we've created a regulatory machine that is difficult and often expensive.''
So far, administration officials say, the acceleration team, run by Shari C. Hyman, director of business acceleration at City Hall, has helped open about 200 restaurants. On average, the restaurants opened 10 weeks faster than they had planned. Mario Batali's sprawling emporium Eataly opened 15 weeks earlier than it normally would have.
The team is made up of four inspectors, a plan examiner and a supervisor from agencies that issue permits -- including the Departments of Health and Mental Hygiene, Fire and Buildings. (Ms. Botros, for instance, is a health department sanitarian.)
Building on that program, officials are now looking to streamline the process further and apply the new approach to other kinds of businesses. They have hired a consultant to help overhaul the permitting process, and are considering creating a single restaurant license that would consolidate and replace all the others.
''We still need to make sure the grease trap is in the right place and that the street cafe doesn't encroach on pedestrians,'' Mr. Goldsmith said. ''But it has to be our responsibility to bring those together at a single point of entry.''
The changes are part of an overall administration strategy to increase job creation as unemployment remains stubbornly high; Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has made the encouragement of small-business growth a priority in his ninth year in office.
Although many of the restaurant owners guided by the acceleration team applaud the city's efforts, some in the industry say they do not go far enough. Currently, the team is focusing on establishments of 50 or fewer seats that are not carrying out major renovations.
''Our goal would be that anybody opening a restaurant, bar, nightclub or bakery would automatically be enrolled in a similar streamlined process,'' said Andrew Rigie, director of operations at the New York State Restaurant Association, a trade group.
''What I would like to see,'' Mr. Rigie added, ''is almost a Mayor's Office of Hospitality,'' like the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting. ''You have a world-famous dining city -- we're sought after by people all over the world. This industry is definitely worthy of such an office.''
The administration says that the new team is adequately performing its function, and that it has not turned any restaurants away.
Officials plan to expand the staff and begin working with supermarkets soon, but it could take about a year to design and start a new system.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sohair Botros, left, of the New Business Acceleration Team assisting Erica Livingston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); INSPECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); CITIES (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); MAYORS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (73%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



753 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Entices Some Banks in Canada Seeking Growth, Despite Variable Results

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- The Bank of Nova Scotia is sometimes praised for having a nearly perfect record with its investments in the United States. But it is the only one of Canada's five large banks that has largely avoided the American market.
Stephen Harper, the prime minister of Canada, is among the many Canadians who regularly remind the world that their country's banking system was left largely unscathed by the global recession and credit market collapse because of its regulation and prudent management. 
Now several of the banks are taking advantage of their solid balance sheets as well as the current revamping and consolidation of the American banking system to again look south for expansion. Last week, the Toronto-Dominion Bank agreed to pay $6.3 billion for Chrysler Financial. And earlier this month the Bank of Montreal bought Marshall & Ilsley, a bank based in Milwaukee, for $4.1 billion.
Given the uneven success of previous forays south of the border, however, few investors expect much good to come of either deal.
''We don't think it's a great idea for Canadian banks to be expanding into the American market,'' said J. Bradley Smith, the head of research at Stonecap Securities in Toronto. ''From a cultural perspective, we're very similar. But from a management perspective, the American market is not an easy threshold to cross.''
Still, Canadian banks have few other options for expansion.
''The banks simply have no choice,'' said Louis Gagnon, an associate professor of finance at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario. ''They have to go beyond our borders to grow and the only market that makes sense is the United States.''
In their home market, Canada's top five banks -- the Royal Bank of Canada, the Toronto-Dominion Bank, the Bank of Nova Scotia, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and the Bank of Montreal -- offer a complete range of banking, from retail to investment banking through a nationwide chain of branches. Changes in regulation have also allowed them to expand, on a limited basis, into insurance while most brokerage houses became bank subsidiaries.
That market dominance, and some regulatory restrictions, mean that competition from foreign-owned banks in Canada is limited. At the same time, the managers of Canadian banks are immune from takeover pressures because of federal laws that prohibit any person or company from owning more than 20 percent of a chartered bank.
While that has made for a orderly financial system for Canada that is very profitable for bank investors, the banks now find themselves accumulating substantial capital without effective ways to use it to increase their businesses within Canada.
The recent rise of consumer debt in Canada has added to the problem. Mark J. Carney, the governor of the Bank of Canada, suggested this month that it had become time for banks to restrict consumer lending, a proposal later echoed by Jim Flaherty, Canada's minister of finance.
The United States looks like an enticing market, but as Professor Gagnon said the results have historically been uninspiring.
By most estimates, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce has fared poorest in the United States. In 2007, burdened by claims from Enron investors against its American unit, the bank sold the bulk of its United States operations to Oppenheimer Holdings.
The Royal Bank of Canada's RBC Centura unit, which is mainly active in the southeastern United States, Toronto-Dominion's TD Banknorth, which covers the Northeast, and the Bank of Montreal's Harris Bank, based in Chicago, have not been similar experiences. But they are all consistent underperformers relative to their parent companies' operations in Canada.
Toronto-Dominion has been the most aggressive in the United States recently. Ed Clark, its chief executive, has exported a formula that he used to substantially increase Toronto-Dominion's lucrative retail business after it acquired Canada Trust, which he previously headed, in 2000. In short, it emphasizes improvements in customer service like longer business hours.
Whether that plan will succeed remains to be seen, but Canada's banks are not the only Canadian companies that have found that their success at home do not necessarily translate to the large and more competitive environment of the United States.
For example, Tim Hortons, the doughnut and coffee shop chain, dominates Canada's fast-food market to a degree without a parallel in the United States and successfully opens new stores rapidly. But continuing struggles with its American expansion forced the closing of 54 outlets in New England last month. Regardless, James L. Darroch, the director of the financial services program at the Schulich School of Business at York University in Toronto, said that the revamping of the American financial sector would most likely force Canadian banks to increase their investments in the United States.
''Either you've got to expand in the U.S. to become profitable or you've got to exit,'' he said. ''If you want to stay in that market, now's the opportunity to shape it. The question is: 'Can you do it right?' ''
Uniquely, the Bank of Nova Scotia has looked outside of the United States for its growth and expansion, primarily to Latin America and China.
While that strategy has brought some missteps, particularly during Mexico's currency crisis, it has generally been more fruitful than its competitors' efforts in the United States.
The downside of Nova Scotia's approach, said Professor Gagnon, who is a former senior manager at the Royal Bank, is that those markets usually take much longer to develop and do not afford the large takeover opportunities that are readily available in the United States.
While Mr. Smith, the analyst, is skeptical about further expansion by Canadian bankers in the United States, he has high praise for their skills, particularly in areas like risk management.
''I feel for the managers of Canadian banks because they're under a lot of pressure from analysts and investors,'' he said. ''But the success of Canadian companies in general, even beyond banks, in expanding into the U.S. is pretty spotty over the long haul.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); TAKEOVERS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); PERSONAL DEBT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (95%); BANK OF MONTREAL (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (84%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (83%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (71%)

TICKER: BNS (TSX) (95%); BNS (NYSE) (95%); BMO (TSX) (93%); BMO (NYSE) (93%); BK (NYSE) (92%); CM (TSX) (84%); CM (NYSE) (84%); RY (TSX) (83%); RY (SWX) (83%); RY (NYSE) (83%); TD (TSX) (71%); TD (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (95%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (71%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (88%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



754 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Climate Change: Science and Skeptics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''A Scientist, His Work and a Climate Reckoning'' (''Temperature Rising'' series, front page, Dec. 22): 
It is a tragic commentary on a 40-year decline in scientific literacy in America that the work of Charles David Keeling on rising carbon dioxide levels is so egregiously misinterpreted by conservative legislators and a significant fraction of the general public.
At a time when we need greater understanding of science and scientific method, we are instead offered scriptural rationalizations to deny the existence of global warming.
At a time when we need unity of purpose in combating one of the most significant threats humanity has ever faced, we are instead offered the blustery hyperpartisanship of incoming committee chairmen who eagerly anticipate hindering the researchers who are our first line of defense.
At a time when we need wisdom and farsightedness to recognize the implications of Dr. Keeling's 50 meticulous years of work, we are instead offered folly, measured out in quarterly profit margins and two-year electoral cycles.
Warren Senders Medford, Mass., Dec. 23, 2010
To the Editor:
Your otherwise excellent article did not mention the most frightening aspect of climate change: the ''feedback loops'' that can cause runaway temperature increases.
Examples include the increased heat absorption when seawater replaces sea ice; the release of methane from thawing tundra; and the change in ocean carbon dioxide absorption with increased ocean temperature.
The possibility that these positive feedback effects (''positive'' in the sense that changes produce more changes in the same direction) may lead to uncontrollable temperature increases, even without further human contribution, is the most compelling reason to do whatever we can now to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Allen E. Armstrong Portland, Me., Dec. 22, 2010
To the Editor:
Your article shows that China has overtaken the United States as the largest emitter of carbon dioxide that is dangerously accumulating in the atmosphere. But China has already taken more forceful actions to limit emissions than we have: stricter vehicle fuel-efficiency standards; a minimum percentage of electricity from renewable energy nationwide and a guaranteed price for it; requirements to close down many gigawatts of inefficient coal-fired power plants; and greater investments in wind and solar energy, which are enabling it to capture those expanding markets in China and abroad.
Now, the main obstacle to greater international cooperation on climate stabilization is not China but the failure in this country to enact national climate legislation.
Robert Repetto Boulder, Colo., Dec. 22, 2010
The writer is an economist with the United Nations Foundation and author of the coming book ''America's Climate Problem: The Way Forward.''
To the Editor:
Your superbly written article about the life and work of the climate scientist Charles David Keeling makes the scientific issues regarding climate change crystal-clear.
Debate on the science of climate change is to be welcomed. However, some (but not all) climate-change contrarians lace their arguments with sarcasm, innuendo and snide remarks, and question the honesty and integrity of any climate scientist who argues that global warming is detrimental to human welfare.
Light on this controversy will be shed not by radio talk-show remarks but rather by reasoned and civil debate.
Michael Klein Brooklyn, Dec. 22, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BENDIK KALTENBORN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); METHANE (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (68%); WIND ENERGY (65%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (65%); OCEANS (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (65%); POWER PLANTS (62%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COMPANY PROFITS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (53%) COLORADO, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (53%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



755 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: South Carolina: Trying Anew for Ring

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Alvin Greene, the unemployed Army veteran who suggested during his failed bid for the United States Senate this year that making action figures of himself would help create jobs, is running for office again. Mr. Greene paid the $165 filing fee on Friday to run in a special election for a South Carolina House seat made vacant by the death this month of Representative Cathy B. Harvin, a Democrat. Cal Land, the chairman of the Clarendon County Democratic Party, said Mr. Greene entered the race five minutes after the filing period opened. A primary will be held Feb. 15, with the special election set for April 5. Mr. Greene said Monday that he would wait to see who else filed before commenting on the race. He was handily defeated in November by Senator Jim DeMint. Mr. Greene was indicted in August on obscenity charges from last November and is free on $5,000 bail. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); JOB CREATION (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); INDICTMENTS (65%); OBSCENITY (50%)

PERSON: JIM DEMINT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



756 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Blizzards and Business Don't Mix, but a Little Planning Can Help

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
In the Bronx, hundreds of thousands of pounds of meat came to a standstill. On Broadway, one of the busiest times of the year was anything but, and near Wall Street, traders were taking over downtown hotels to make sure they would be at work when the bell rang.
For many New Yorkers, the onslaught of snow was an inconvenience, if not a delight, but for those propping up its economy, there was no other way to view it but as a serious logistical and business headache. 
At Hunts Point in the Bronx, the distribution point for much of the city's food, trucks hauling beef, lamb and other meats raced to the Hunts Point Cooperative Market from every direction on Sunday to beat the worst of the storm. But then, while lined up waiting to be unloaded, some of them got stuck in the snow.
Eventually, the market's general manager shut the gate, turning away more trucks until extra plowing crews could clear the area. ''Trucks were just pouring in here looking to get off the road,'' said the manager, Bruce Reingold. ''It was very difficult.''
At least half of the market's tenants did not open for business on Monday, which would normally have been a busy day for selling meat to restaurants. Mr. Reingold estimated that fewer than 400 of the 2,500 people who work at the market showed up on Monday.
Meanwhile, he and his staff were managing on little or no sleep. ''We were here all night,'' he said. ''We'll be here all through the night tonight.''
He said hiring additional plows and paying overtime were significant costs that would not be recouped. ''You hope that you make up the business during the course of the week, but you never do,'' Mr. Reingold said.
Macy's flagship store on Herald Square delayed its opening Monday by 30 minutes, and many companies, like the Durst Organization, the big developer, told most employees to stay home.
Some restaurants, most Broadway theaters and the trading floors on Wall Street were able to gather enough workers and cast members to go on with their routines. But it was not easy.
At River Cafe on the Brooklyn waterfront, reservations were canceled and out-of-town customers failed to arrive. Some deliveries were delayed, but everything arrived in time so the restaurant could prepare a full menu for Monday evening, said Scott Stamford, the restaurant's manager. Mustering a full staff required some improvisation, though: the maitre d'hotel, Josh Brown, attached plastic zip ties to his bicycle tires for better traction on the ride home Sunday night, then used his cross-country skis to get back Monday.
The New York Stock Exchange, which has not curtailed trading because of the weather since a blizzard in January 1996, opened on time for a full day of trading -- light as it was. Fewer shares of stock changed hands at the exchange than in any full session in more than 12 years.
To avoid a late start, the exchange relied on the rehearsed storm-beating strategies of traders like Kenneth Polcari, who traveled into the city from Westchester County on Sunday evening and checked into a Club Quarters hotel near the exchange. All the other rooms were taken, he said, by financial services workers.
''People around the world trade on the New York Stock Exchange,'' Mr. Polcari said. ''They don't know and they don't care that it is snowing outside.''
Planning ahead also paid off for Francisco Crousset, who manages J. H. Little Papa & Son, a neighborhood market at Lincoln Road and Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn. Mr. Crousset, 40, had plenty of eggs and milk to sell on Monday, even after customers had rushed in to stock up, because he had scheduled an extra delivery on Saturday.
''I knew there was going to be a storm, so I prepared,'' he said. For Broadway theaters, the snowstorm's timing could hardly have been worse. The week after Christmas is among the most lucrative for theaters because so many tourists visit. Popular shows are usually turning away people this week, rather than trying to lure them in with ''snow day'' discounts, as the musicals ''Billy Elliot'' and ''Mamma Mia!'' did on Sunday and Monday.
There were roughly 200 no-shows at the Sunday night performances of ''Mary Poppins'' and ''The Lion King.'' Because of the weather, most major Broadway musicals and plays were allowing people to exchange their Sunday and Monday tickets for performances at another time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man tried to dig out a police car stuck at Pearl and Water Streets in Brooklyn, among many trouble spots on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); THEATER (78%); TIRES (75%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (75%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); SKIING (71%); WEATHER (71%); OVERTIME (63%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



757 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. FAST FORWARD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Tebow, Imperfect But Captivating, Makes His Case

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
The season was lost early in Denver this year, but on Sunday the Broncos went about salvaging something from the two seasons that not only cost Josh McDaniels his job, but also cost the roster many of its best players and the franchise some respect.
Enter Tim Tebow, who used to wear references to Scripture in his eye black. On Sunday he did look like a football savior for a beleaguered franchise. A two-game audition to be an N.F.L. starting quarterback is less time than an ''American Idol'' contestant gets. But if nothing else, Tebow, the rookie with the imperfect motion and the propensity for running, is making it difficult for the next Broncos coach to put him on the bench. 
Tebow threw for 308 yards, more than any quarterback in Broncos history making his first home start, including John Elway. He directed the Broncos back from a 17-0 deficit, he threw for a touchdown and he ran for another. The Houston Texans have perhaps the most embarrassing defense in the league, and Tebow's passing stats were skewed by screen pass after screen pass -- an effort by the Broncos to get the ball out of Tebow's hands quickly -- but Tebow deserves credit for punishing a bad defense and for imparting on the Broncos the ineffable quality he brought to the Florida Gators.
''He is exactly what you thought coming out of college,'' Houston Coach Gary Kubiak said. ''He is a winner.''
Tebow's most important stat might be that there were just 5,700 no-shows for an entirely meaningless game at Invesco Field, where swaths of empty seats had spread like a virus as this season disintegrated. That's a testament to Tebow's drawing power, with more to come Sunday against San Diego. The men who will choose Denver's next coach will have to weigh what level of commitment they want to make to Tebow -- but given that he is a first-round draft pick, it is likely to be considerable, even with McDaniels gone.
The Broncos' interviews will undoubtedly include detailed questions about what the candidates will do to make Tebow a franchise quarterback. His throwing motion is still too elongated. He needs more help reading defenses. Running as much as he does will eventually take a physical toll, and almost everybody thinks that if Tebow is to be a long-term quarterback, he will have to stop scrambling.
''I don't know that we have a whole lot more data than we had a year ago,'' said the former Baltimore coach Brian Billick, now an analyst for Fox and the NFL Network. ''You've got a new guy coming in -- do they take someone who will say 'Yes, Tim Tebow will play'? If not, then where are you? Is that a wasted first-round pick? Nobody who they bring in is going to take ownership of Tim Tebow any more than Ken Whisenhunt had to take ownership of Matt Leinart.''
After halftime Sunday, the Broncos started throwing downfield more, igniting the comeback. That might not have worked against a better defense, but it was impossible to miss that the existing coaching staff was growing more confident in Tebow.
The victory meant the Broncos lost any chance at the first overall draft pick, and the accompanying possibility of selecting Stanford's Andrew Luck, if he decides to enter the draft. Luck is the anti-Tebow, polished and pro-ready. But the Broncos will most likely cast their lot with Tebow, at least for next season. McDaniels left the roster in shambles, sending many of the Broncos' best players elsewhere, but he was an astute offensive mind. And drafting Tebow might turn out to be a promising parting gift.
''I think he's a born leader,'' Broncos running back Correll Buckhalter said. ''He has a lot of energy out there on the field and we're going to rally behind him.''
Singletary Joins Firing Line
Mike Singletary's sideline shouting match with quarterback Troy Smith on Sunday was the perfect bookend to his tenure with San Francisco, which began with Singletary's dropping his pants in the locker room to make a point during his first game as head coach two years ago. It also matched a shouting exchange earlier this season with quarterback Alex Smith. Finally, the 49ers' chief executive Jed York fired Singletary late Sunday, a curious bit of timing because everybody knew the move was coming at the end of the season.
York said that money was no object in hiring a replacement -- paging Jon Gruden -- and that the Niners need a quarterback. Deep breaths, Jed. First, you need a general manager who can find a suitable head coach. For all the glamour Bill Walsh and Joe Montana lent the Niners, theirs will not even be the best available opening this off-season.
If Gary Kubiak -- now on a four-game losing streak -- is fired in Houston, the Texans will have their pick of top candidates because quarterback Matt Schaub is in place. Singletary's hiring was a fiasco. He never tempered the high-voltage passion that made him a brilliant player and an impressive public speaker, and he never indicated any acumen with football strategy. His herky-jerky treatment of quarterbacks was just one indication that Singletary had no long-term vision beyond screaming, ''I want winners!''
But remember when everyone thought the impending lockout would put a halt to coach firings? Four have been fired in season, in a league where that rarely happens. The late-season collapses could cost Kubiak and perhaps Miami's Tony Sparano their jobs. Home losses to Cleveland, Detroit and Buffalo -- and the empty seats that followed -- left the Dolphins' owner Stephen Ross seething, and his brief comments Sunday to The Miami Herald indicated Sparano could be a late addition to the coaching unemployment line, especially with his patron, Bill Parcells, out of the building. 'Tis the season.
Around the League
Where have you gone, Kurt Warner? Warner retired after last season and took the Cardinals' passing offense with him. The Cardinals have just nine passing touchdowns this season -- and yes, Larry Fitzgerald is still on the team -- but they do have 12 returns for touchdowns. That's one short of the N.F.L. record. It leaves a lingering question: Just how bad was Matt Leinart that the Cardinals thought he couldn't help them?
After the Redskins beat the Jaguars in overtime on Sunday, there was an obvious conclusion: Mike Shanahan made a mess of the Donovan McNabb situation, but the offense does run better with Rex Grossman. In his two starts, he has thrown five touchdowns and three interceptions. Does that make him the quarterback of the future? No. Shanahan will spend the off-season trying to find that. But Grossman is doing fine for now, giving Shanahan time to regroup after his clumsy first season in Washington.
So much for the Cowboys' momentum after Jason Garrett took over. They have lost two of three and play Philadelphia on Sunday. The loss to the Cardinals on Christmas night was the worst, because Arizona had lost eight of its previous nine games and was starting the rookie quarterback John Skelton. The Cowboys' owner, Jerry Jones, is still believed to favor hiring Garrett permanently, but after the Cardinals game, Jones sounded far from patient. ''We're sitting here, a 10-loss team,'' Jones said. ''That team we just lost to has five wins. I'm mad as hell and I know all of our fans are.''
New Focus for Alumni Group
Monday marked the re-establishment of the New York chapter of the N.F.L. Alumni Association, which was dormant for three years. George Martin, the former Giant, is the head of the N.F.L. Alumni Association -- Martin estimates as many as 300 live in the New York area -- and he has changed the mission of the group to supporting former players on quality-of-life issues like pensions and medical benefits as well as being a charity for children's causes. That has put him at odds with the N.F.L. Players Association, whose leader, DeMaurice Smith, has said he wants to represent former players as well as current players.
''We know they have multiple issues,'' Martin said. ''At the same time we don't want to be viewed as second-class citizens. I have nothing but the highest respect for the N.F.L.P.A. office. That's an organization I helped build. That doesn't necessarily carry over to its current leadership. I would say it's a cold war.''
Still, Martin hears current players complain about the crackdown on hits to the head and he cringes. ''The thing we try to illuminate to the current guys is very shortly, they'll be where we are; it will happen a lot sooner than they realize,'' he said. ''It behooves them not to just focus on the now.''
Martin supports the crackdown, but he vehemently disagrees with the aggressive fines given to players -- a common ground he might have with the N.F.L.P.A. Martin thinks coaches and teams should be fined, too, saying they are the ones who teach and encourage players to tackle at all costs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tim Tebow, above, had 308 yards passing for Denver on Sunday, the most by a Broncos quarterback making his first home start. Lateseason collapses by their teams could cost Miami Coach Tony Sparano, far left, and Houston's Gary Kubiak their jobs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG PENSINGER/GETTY IMAGES
 MARC SEROTA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%)

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DENVER BRONCOS (95%); HOUSTON TEXANS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (54%)

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%) COLORADO, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



758 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths PINTO, MICHAEL ANTHONY

 BODY:
PINTO--Michael Anthony, 73, of Shrewsbury, NJ died December 25 from complications of Alzheimer's disease. Following graduation from college he joined Price, Waterhouse & Co. before becoming Director of International Accounting for The American Institute of CPAs. When the Financial Accounting Standards Board was founded in 1973, he was its first Director of Finance and Administration. Mike and his family lived in Wayne, NJ for 25 years and spent summers in Bay Head, NJ before moving to the Shore Area in 1990. Mike served on the Board of Directors of the Greater Wayne Area Chamber of Commerce the Wayne Area Foundation and Passaic County Economic Development Committee. He lectured frequently on accounting and business issues and served on the faculties of Montclair State University and Fairleigh Dickinson University. Surviving are his wife of 48 years, Terese, their daughter Pamela (Patrick D. Bonner, Jr.), sons: Michael F. (Tracy) and Andrew M. (Frances); seven grandchildren, and one sister, Sister Justine Pinto. For funeral details please visit www.sidun.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ACCOUNTING (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (58%); FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010



759 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Earmarks Ban May Loom, but Lawmakers Find Ways to Finance Pet Projects

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- No one was more critical than Representative Mark Steven Kirk when President Obama and the Democratic majority in the Congress sought passage last year of a $787 billion spending bill intended to stimulate the economy. And during his campaign for the Illinois Senate seat once held by Mr. Obama, Mr. Kirk, a Republican, boasted of his vote against ''Speaker Pelosi's trillion-dollar stimulus plan.''
Though Mr. Kirk and other Republicans thundered against pork-barrel spending and lawmakers' practice of designating money for special projects through earmarks, they have not shied from using a less-well-known process called lettermarking to try to direct money to projects in their home districts.
Mr. Kirk, for example, sent a letter to the Department of Education dated Sept. 10, 2009, asking it to release money ''needed to support students and educational programs'' in a local school district. The letter was obtained under the Freedom of Information Act by the group Citizens Against Government Waste, which shared it with The New York Times. 
The district, Woodland School District 50, said it later received about $1.1 million in stimulus money.
In response to questions about the letter, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kirk defended the practice of reaching out to federal agencies to secure financing for constituents.
''Senator-elect Kirk became the first member of the Appropriations Committee to stop requesting earmarks and voted against the stimulus bill,'' the spokeswoman, Susan Kuczka, said in a prepared statement. ''He has and will continue to be an advocate for his Illinois constituents before administration agencies but will not request Congressional earmarks to be included in House or Senate legislation.''
Lettermarking, which takes place outside the Congressional appropriations process, is one of the many ways that legislators who support a ban on earmarks try to direct money back home.
In phonemarking, a lawmaker calls an agency to request financing for a project. More indirectly, members of Congress make use of what are known as soft earmarks, which involve making suggestions about where money should be directed, instead of explicitly instructing agencies to finance a project. Members also push for increases in financing of certain accounts in a federal agency's budget and then forcefully request that the agency spend the money on the members' pet project.
Because all these methods sidestep the regular legislative process, the number of times they are used and the money involved are even harder to track than with regular earmarks.
But a New York Times review of letters and e-mail to government agencies from members of Congress shows that the practice is widespread despite the fact that both President George W. Bush and President Obama have issued executive orders instructing agencies not to finance projects based on communications from Congress.
Under the leadership of Representative John A. Boehner, the Ohio Republican who will be speaker of the House in the new Congress, and pressed by Tea Party supporters who want to curb government spending, Republicans have called for a ban on earmarks, saying they have become symbol of what is wrong in Washington.
Michael Steel, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner, said the earmark ban was ''an unprecedented step for the House,'' adding, ''We'll be working to ensure that it is as fair and effective as possible in terms of enforcement.''
The Senate rejected an earmarks ban in a vote during the lame-duck session of Congress.
In any case, many people both inside and outside Congress remain skeptical that much will change if earmarks are banned, since legislators have a history of finding new ways to try to get money for their districts.
David E. Williams, vice president for policy at Citizens Against Government Waste, likened the effort to stamp out earmarks to a game of ''Whack-a-Mole.''
''When one door closes, there is always two or three more that they can go through,'' Mr. Williams said, adding that he feared that lawmakers would develop even less transparent ways to finance their special projects.
But Representative Jeff Flake, the Arizona Republican who is a longtime opponent of earmarks, still sees merit in banning them.
''There's no way you can stamp out every effort by lawmakers to bring home the pork,'' Mr. Flake said. ''But you can marginalize it, and a ban on earmarks would be going a long way in doing that.''
Supporters of an earmark ban point out that unlike earmarks written into a spending bill, requests for financing made through letters, phone calls or other methods are not legally binding on an agency.
But Winslow T. Wheeler, a former Senate appropriations and national security aide who worked for both Democrats and Republicans over three decades before stepping down in 2002, said agencies were loath to ignore requests from legislators, especially appropriators like Mr. Kirk.
''When you have people who control your budget, that you have to appear before on an annual basis to ask for funding, you listen to what they have to say,'' Mr. Wheeler said.
Mr. Boehner and other Republicans who will be in the House leadership in the new Congress did not respond to questions about whether or how they would try to address practices like lettermarking and soft earmarks.
Mr. Flake said he had raised the issue with Mr. Boehner, adding, ''I'm confident that he heard me and will address these things, too.''
Soft earmarks alone accounted for billions of dollars in spending in 2006, the last year they were examined, according the Congressional Research Service. They occur most often in spending bills for State Department, the United States Agency for International Development and other foreign aid programs.
In 2010, the soft earmarks included suggestions to finance the Esperanza International, a micro-lending organization based in Washington State that was started by David Valle, a former major league baseball player, and the Real Property Foundation, a group in Chicago made up of American real estate agents that promotes private property rights around the world.
Patrick M. Cronin, a senior adviser at the Center for a New American Security and a former administrator at the Agency for International Development, said soft earmarks were commonly used by members of Congress, especially appropriators.
''They would tell you that they wanted money to go to a particular university or group or the next time you wouldn't get the funding in the budget you wanted,'' Dr. Cronin said. ''So it's true that you can ignore some soft earmarks, but others you have to take more seriously. Agency heads are not going to put their budgets in jeopardy because of a few line items.''
Military spending bills regularly contain financing that the Pentagon did not seek for projects in Congressional districts.
Steve Ellis of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a nonpartisan group that tracks federal spending, refers to such financing as ''undisclosed earmarks.'' These expenditures end up in a bill at the request of lawmakers or military contractors, but the source of the request does not have to be disclosed because the provisions do not meet the Congressional definition of an earmark.
The 2010 military bill, for example, contained expenditures that the Pentagon did not want: $2.5 billion for C-17 transport planes; $825 million for all-terrain vehicles; $732 million for other planes, and $500 million for a second engine for the F-35 jet.
Taxpayers for Common Sense found 146 such undisclosed earmarks totaling nearly $6 billion in 2010 spending bills.
''If it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it's a duck,'' Mr. Ellis said. ''These are clearly earmarks.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 30, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about members of Congress who request funds from federal agencies for special projects in their home districts without designating them as earmarks in spending bills misstated the given name of a former Senate staff member who said agencies were loath to ignore requests from legislators. He is Winslow T. Wheeler, not Winston.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Mark Steven Kirk has criticized and used earmarks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HYUNGWON KANG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (55%)

PERSON: MARK STEVEN KIRK (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



760 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Frugal Traveler)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2010

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: My $100 Weekend in New York: Where the Money Went

BYLINE: SETH KUGEL


HIGHLIGHT: Seth Kugel reveals how he saw plays, visited museums and ate out on just $100 over the weekend in New York. 

 BODY:
What's the lowest possible budget you need for a great weekend in New York? I figured $100 would do the trick, as long as you can find a free place to crash. (Recommendations: your college roommate's couch, your ex-girlfriend's futon, your rich distant cousin's pied-a-terre, or Couchsurfing.) 
I tried it out for a weekend in December, and it went great - you can read the article here. There were even a few surprises, like the live frog delivery I came across on the Lower East Side. For those curious about the precise budget, here are the details:
 Starting budget: $100 
TRANSPORTATION
I paid $20 and got a MetroCard worth $23 (the M.T.A. gives you a 15 percent bonus), which was worth 10 rides, precisely the number I needed. Starting Jan. 1, however, the prices will go up. A 10-trip MetroCard will cost $21.03. Still not a bad deal.
 Remaining budget: $80 
 FRIDAY 
Joe's Pizza: two cheese slices, $5.50
Public Theater Mobile Unit: "Measure for Measure," one ticket, $15
Blind Tiger: one Sixpoint Righteous Rye, with tip, $7.50
 Remaining budget: $52 
 SATURDAY 
Doughnut Plant: coffee and two doughnuts, $6.75
Lower East Side walking tour podcast, free
Prosperity Dumpling: five dumplings, $1
Economy Candy: 0.55 lbs bulk candy, $1.26
Staten Island Ferry, free
National Museum of the American Indian, free
Margn: Cuban lunch, Corona, $11.50
Guggenheim: pay-what-you-wish entry, $5
Baoguette: Banh mi sandwich, $6.53
Anthology Film Archives: one ticket, $9
 Remaining budget: $10.96 
 SUNDAY 
Grounded: latte, bagel with cream cheese, $5.50
Streecha: Ukrainian lunch, $5
 Remaining budget: $0.46 

        
Can It Be Done? Midtown on a Budget
        
Budget Beauty: Manicured Without Getting Clipped
        
36 Hours? In Queens, Enough Frugal Options for a Week
        
7 Manhattan Hotel Rooms for $150, More or Less
        
Guidebooks, Schmidebooks: 5 Hidden Gems in New York City

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); NATIVE AMERICANS (86%); PODCASTING (66%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (50%); FERRIES (50%) Kugel, Seth; Budgets and Budgeting; Frogs; National Museum of the American Indian; Lower East Side (NYC); Manhattan (NYC); New York City; $100 Weekends

ORGANIZATION: National Museum of the American Indian

PERSON: Kugel, Seth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); UKRAINE (67%) Lower East Side (NYC); Manhattan (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2013



761 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: 'Doubling Up' in Recession-Strained Quarters

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Griff Palmer contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
FORT PIERCE, Fla. -- For the three generations of the Maggi family crowded into a recession-beaten three-bedroom ranch house here, the tension from living on top of one another for the last 10 months sometimes erupts at unexpected moments.
A nudge from Kathy Maggi for her 26-year-old daughter, Holly, to clean her room sparks a blow-up; an offhand comment by Jim Maggi about the way bills come in ''month after month'' to his daughter's fiance, James Wilson, causes days of smoldering; a bite of a chocolate bar from Grandma to 21-month-old Madison leads to frustrated chatter behind closed doors about ''Nana'' and ''Pawpaw'' spoiling her.
In February, after being evicted from their Gainesville apartment, Holly, James, Madison and their good-natured pit bull, Caley, moved into a cramped bedroom in the house where Holly grew up. Neither of Madison's parents had been able to find work for more than a year.
Of the myriad ways the Great Recession has altered the country's social fabric, the surge in households like the Maggis', where relatives and friends have moved in together as a last resort, is one of the most concrete, yet underexplored, demographic shifts. 
Census Bureau data released in September showed that the number of multifamily households jumped 11.7 percent from 2008 to 2010, reaching 15.5 million, or 13.2 percent of all households. It is the highest proportion since at least 1968, accounting for 54 million people.
Even that figure, however, is undoubtedly an undercount of the phenomenon social service providers call ''doubling up,'' which has ballooned in the recession and anemic recovery. The census' multifamily household figures, for example, do not include such situations as when a single brother and a single sister move in together, or when a childless adult goes to live with his or her parents.
For many, the arrangements represent their last best option, the only way to stave off entering a homeless shelter or sleeping in their cars. In fact, nearly half of the people in shelters in 2009 who had not previously been homeless had been staying with family members or friends, according to a recent report, making clear that the arrangements are frequently a final way station on the way to homelessness.
A New York Times analysis of census ''microdata,'' prepared by the University of Minnesota's state population center, found that the average income of multifamily households in the records fell by more than 5 percent from 2009 to 2010, twice as much as households over all, suggesting that many who are living in such arrangements are under financial siege.
Holly's parents had been enduring their own financial struggles. Mr. Maggi, 58, lost his job as a high-end furniture maker in early 2009. Complicating matters, he and his wife had allowed Holly's older sister, her husband and their two children to move in with them after they lost their home to foreclosure in 2008. They finally scraped together the money to move out just a week before Holly arrived with her family.
''I was just thinking, 'Is it ever going to end?' '' Mr. Maggi said. ''I thought I was done raising my kids.''
Nevertheless, the Maggis said there was never any question about their taking in Holly and her young family.
''She didn't have any other options,'' said Kathy Maggi, 53, who has not worked for several years because of health problems. ''It was here or on the streets.''
Back in Gainesville, Holly Maggi had worked as a manager at a self-storage facility before being laid off in 2007. She eventually took a job at a Haagen-Dazs, only to lose that as well. Mr. Wilson's job as a flooring contractor sustained them, until that work also dried up in early 2009.
As their money dwindled, Ms. Maggi and Mr. Wilson looked into shelters but discovered they would not be able to stay together as a family. It took Ms. Maggi a week to muster up the courage to ask her parents.
''It was the hardest thing I've ever had to do,'' said Ms. Maggi, who has lived on her own since she was 18, working for most of that time and putting herself through community college.
The young couple, however, have come to regret their decision, even as they concede they had no other choice.
''I liked her family when we weren't here,'' said Mr. Wilson, who has struggled to mesh his more reserved personality with the garrulousness of Ms. Maggi's family. ''Now that we're here, I don't like them. I feel bad about it. I don't think it's their problem, or something that can be helped. It is what it is.''
The stresses can be as trifling as having to worry when getting up at night to use the toilet, which Mr. Wilson said he fretted about all the time because the elder Maggis' bedroom is next to the bathroom. Or they can be more serious, like how Mr. Wilson and Ms. Maggi feel their parental decisions are being constantly undermined by her parents.
Several months ago, Holly Maggi finally landed a part-time job, paying minimum wage, as a cashier at Harvest Food & Outreach Center here, which offers discounted groceries, classes and other services to the needy. (The center's client base has grown tenfold this year in St. Lucie County, where the unemployment rate was 15.2 percent in November.)
With Ms. Maggi at work, Mr. Wilson, 26, has been left to fend for himself at home with their daughter and Ms. Maggi's parents. Over time, Kathy Maggi's regular chirping about how to deal with Madison and her sometimes-differing approach -- she prefers, for example, not to let her granddaughter cry, even though Mr. Wilson and Holly Maggi sometimes think she needs to -- has rankled Mr. Wilson. ''I don't think she feels Madison is safe when she's with me,'' he said.
After Holly comes home from work, the couple spend most of their time in their bedroom, with Madison dashing in and out. Most of their possessions, including a 75-gallon fish tank with two giant South American cichlids and a South American catfish, occupy a second bedroom. Even though three-quarters of the space in their room is taken up by a king-size mattress, it has become their refuge. ''This is the only place we feel we have that's really ours,'' Holly Maggi said.
The family's time together has not been without its joys. It has enabled Madison's grandparents to witness her first steps and first words, her transformation from infant to toddler. But the financial burdens shadow everything.
The sharing of expenses is a touchy subject. Holly's food stamps cover groceries, but she and Mr. Wilson only occasionally pitch in on other bills because they have been focused on paying off creditors, as well as friends and relatives who have lent them money. Her parents have dropped hints but hold back. ''That's her money,'' Kathy Maggi said. ''I can't say, 'Holly, give me your paycheck for the bills.' I can't do that.''
The young couple's relationship has suffered. Arguments are more frequent. Their sex life, they say, is basically nonexistent. Every night, with her parents in the next room, Mr. Wilson and Ms. Maggi discuss in hushed tones how and when they might be able to move out. Their hopes were buoyed recently when she was promoted and got a small raise.
The new dilemma, however, is that Jim Maggi's unemployment benefits are scheduled to run out soon, which would leave the elder Maggis with no income and their savings exhausted. Mr. Maggi declared recently they needed to have a family meeting.
The predicament has left Holly Maggi feeling torn. She wants to leave, maybe even needs to, but she also does not want to abandon her parents. Soon, she will have to make a decision.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Holly Maggi, left, and her fiance, James Wilson, right, and their 21-month-old daughter, Madison, have moved in with Ms. Maggi's parents, Jim and Kathy Maggi.
 A calendar counted down to Holly Maggi's next paycheck. James Wilson spends much of his time checking online for job possibilities and caring for his daughter. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAGGIE STEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENSUS (88%); HOMELESSNESS (88%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (87%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); FAMILY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); EVICTION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); FURNITURE MFG (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (65%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



762 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: In the Rearview, A Year That Fizzled

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Washington
It was the year that the economy started to recover and then slid back into a slump -- only to offer reason for renewed hope in the final weeks. 
When 2010 began, hiring and consumer spending were finally picking up. But then something changed in the spring -- a combination of the debt troubles in Europe, the fading of stimulus spending and the usual caution by businesses and consumers after a financial crisis. By the summer, the unemployment rate was rising again, and Americans' attitudes about the future were again souring.
Making matters worse, many of the economy's long-term problems also became more severe this year. Health care costs continued to rise faster than inflation, and the number of uninsured continued to grow. The most recent climate data suggested 2010 would be the hottest or second-hottest year ever recorded; the 10 hottest have all occurred in the last 13 years, creating serious risks for the planet and its economy. The federal budget deficit ballooned further (though it should grow during an economic slump).
The reasons for optimism about 2011 come from both Washington and the private sector. The Federal Reserve and Congress have finally taken more action to lift economic growth, and the latest data -- on consumer spending and jobless claims, among other things -- has been good. The housing market remains weak, but sales and prices are no longer plunging.
On the longer-term issues, the recent work by President Obama's bipartisan deficit commission suggested that Democrats and Republicans might eventually find some common ground on the issue. And the health care overhaul passed in March -- assuming it survives legal challenges -- is likely to cut the number of uninsured sharply and to reduce cost growth modestly. The one issue that offers little reason for optimism is climate change.
Among the big questions for 2011 are: How severe will state and local budget crises turn out to be? Will Europe's debt troubles spread to Spain, Portugal or elsewhere? Will Congress and the White House manage to focus on the long-run causes of the deficit -- or instead cut federal spending immediately and jeopardize the recovery? Will consumers continue to increase their spending and give businesses the confidence to hire?
To look back at 2010 and to look ahead, we have put together a series of charts. If there is an overall message, it's that the economy still needs a whole lot of work.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHARTS: Job Growth That Faded . . . Job growth was starting to outpace population growth in the spring of 2010 but then
. . . Means a Long Road Back to Full Employment: 9.4 million jobs would need to be added immediately to reduce the jobless rate to below 6 percent, considered by some economists to be full employment. But the shortfall will grow because roughly 125,000 new jobs a month are needed to keep up with population growth. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
Moody's Analytics
Census Bureau) (B1)
Jobs, Pay and Inflation: Long-term unemployment remained high in 2010. A larger share of workers had been unemployed for at least six months than at any point since the government began keeping records in 1948.
Profits and Stocks: Corporate profits continued a rebound that began in 2009. After big gains in 2009, stocks kept rising in early 2010, fell for much of the spring and summer, and have been mostly rising since. As a result, the market may no longer be regarded as cheap. Relative to earnings over the last 10 years, a measure preferred by the economist Robert Shiller, stocks are slightly more expensive than they have been on average over the last 50 years.
Housing: Home sales rose as people took advantage of a federal tax credit and then fell after the credit expired. The housing crash appears to be over, but no recovery is in sight.
Health Care: Both the cost of health care and the share of people without health insurance continue to rise. Average premiums for families have doubled in the last decade, while more than a quarter of the working-age population was uninsured some time during 2010. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
S.&P./Case-Shiller
Kaiser Family Foundation
Bureau of Economic Analysis
National Association of Realtors
 Haver Analytics) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



763 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: An Iraqi Government, Finally

 BODY:
Nine long months after parliamentary elections, Iraq has a new government. Its leaders can't waste any more time on petty maneuvering.
The March elections were only the second since Saddam Hussein's ouster. Forming the government was a sordid and costly process. The political paralysis meant important economic decisions were not made, leading to even higher unemployment. Basic services deteriorated even further. And Iraqi voters have grown even more cynical about the democratic process. 
The new government will have to work hard to establish its credibility. We have mixed feelings about Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki winning a second term when so many voters wanted change. In the past, he has shown disturbing autocratic tendencies and bolstered his power by inflaming sectarian differences. This time he needs to prove himself as a leader for all Iraqis.
In the election, his Shiite-dominated State of Law coalition came in second -- by two seats -- to the multi-ethnic Iraqiya slate led by Ayad Allawi, a former prime minister. But Mr. Maliki outmaneuvered his rival and finally put together a winning coalition.
As part of the deal, Mr. Maliki accepted an American proposal to have Mr. Allawi lead a still-to-be-created council to oversee national security issues and provide some check on Mr. Maliki's powers.
The new government rightly includes all of Iraq's major communities. We are especially encouraged that Sunnis -- disenfranchised after boycotting the 2005 election -- were given several top posts, including speaker of Parliament. Mr. Allawi's bloc has a large number of Sunni supporters, which is another reason why the new council should be given real clout.
A secularly minded Sunni also became the minister of education, succeeding a religious Shiite, increasing the chance that education will become more secular and inclusive. Unfortunately, Iraqi women were shortchanged, being offered only one minor government office.
Iraq's factions, with their competing priorities, are going to have to work hard to make progress on the country's many problems. They must pass laws ensuring an equitable division of the country's oil wealth. They must make sweeping economic reforms, without which there is no chance of creating jobs for the 450,000 mostly young Iraqis entering the work force each year. They need to keep their promise of jobs to the thousands of Sunni fighters who came in from the cold.
At this point, Iraq's most dangerous fault line may be the oil-rich region of Kirkuk, which is claimed by Arabs and Kurds. Washington must press Iraqis to find a solution, making clear that a Kurdish secession or a grab for Kirkuk would mean the end of American support.
President Obama has rightly promised to withdraw all American troops from Iraq by the end of 2011. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal that was published on Tuesday, Mr. Maliki insisted that that deadline is firm. Still, the two leaders need to consider whether some number of forces -- American or from the United Nations -- should remain temporarily as a buffer in Kirkuk.
The administration deserves credit for goading Iraqis into a political deal. But the long delay and Iraq's daunting list of problems is a reminder that, even after the troops come home, Iraq will continue to need American attention, support and pressure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); BOYCOTTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); RELIGION (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (51%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



764 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Storm on East Coast Is Local News in West

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
KRTV News in Great Falls, Mont., has exactly one full-time reporter, Kay Rossi, on the Monday-to-Friday local news beat. So when Ms. Rossi called in stranded -- snowbound with family in Connecticut, uncertain when she would be able to get back West -- the tiny station's managers were thrown into a staffing crisis. Then they improvised: They made her plight a news story. 
A telephone interview from the newsroom direct to Ms. Rossi's aunt's house in East Lyme was featured on Monday's 5:30 p.m. broadcast. Breathless updates were posted on the station's Web site -- ''Kay Rossi still trying to return to Great Falls'' was the headline posted Tuesday afternoon.
Meanwhile, Ms. Rossi, 25, was put to work posting messages on Twitter and her Facebook page about the storm, the travails of dealing with Delta Air Lines, and her aunt's car, which was stuck in the snow.
Ms. Rossi's boss, Heath Heggem, KRTV's content manager, said in a telephone interview that a missing staff member in a news department of 10 people, including weather and sports, left a big hole. Ms. Rossi, who is originally from upstate New York, typically files up to four stories a day on the doings of Great Falls, from crime to education to economics.
She is hoping to be back in Montana by Friday afternoon.
''It puts a little bit of a strain on things,'' Mr. Heggem said, ''but it's what you have to do in small markets sometimes.''
Ms. Rossi had one story ready before she left last week, about a local man who had successfully auditioned to be a contestant on the game show ''Jeopardy!'' That ran in her absence.
But she missed another story that made local headlines, about a drunk's apparent vendetta against garbage cans and Dumpsters -- he was arrested and charged Sunday with hitting more than 100 of them with his car.
''If it was in Great Falls, I would have covered it,'' Ms. Rossi said.KIRK JOHNSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); ARRESTS (65%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



765 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: In Remote Corner of Portugal, a Photographer Finds More Than He Expects

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
What is the opposite of precocious? If no suitable word exists, somebody should invent one -- in English, French or, ideally, Portuguese -- to describe the 102-year-old filmmaker Manoel de Oliveira. He has completed a dozen features and a handful of shorts since 1998, which is to say since his 90th birthday. His latest feature, a tale of supernatural romance called ''The Strange Case of Angelica,'' arrives in New York on Wednesday, and while it is evidently the work of an artist with great stores of wisdom and a long view of history, it also has a playful, wry quality that can only be described as youthful.
Unfolding in a present that might easily be mistaken for an earlier century, ''The Strange Case of Angelica'' finds Mr. Oliveira casting his gaze both backward and forward. His setting, once again, is the landscape around the Douro Valley in northern Portugal, a region of vineyards and olive groves as well as old, aristocratic estates, and a familiar and beloved subject for his camera. (Among his first films was a documentary short called ''Labor on the Douro River,'' made in 1931.) And the story recycles and updates a never-completed project Mr. Oliveira worked on in the early 1950s. 
But whatever nostalgia might hover around this movie is subverted by its mischievous, inventive and entirely appropriate use of digital special effects. A modern ghost story requires such tools, after all, and Mr. Oliveira deploys them with an elegant and judicious hand.
The coexistence of old and new ways of doing things is a motif that threads its way through this tale of unquenchable love and uncanny apparitions. The protagonist, a moody, faintly Dostoyevskyan intellectual named Isaac (Ricardo Trepa), is a professional photographer who develops his prints in a darkroom and hangs them from a clothesline strung across his room. He takes pictures of agricultural workers plying their trade with picks and hoes and singing songs that sound as primal as the labor itself. His unsentimental landlady wonders why he bothers with them, since nowadays everything is done ''with machines.'' Mr. Oliveira appreciates both points of view, which is only fitting since the art of cinema, as he practices it, seems at once ancient and modern.
Isaac's contemplation of agrarian toil is disrupted by a rather archaic commission from a wealthy local family. A young woman named Angelica (Pilar Lopez de Ayala) has died, and her mother wants funerary portraits made. After a chilly welcome from the housekeeper and Angelica's sister, a nun, the photographer sets to work and is jolted by what seems to be a hallucination. As he looks at her through his viewfinder, Angelica smiles and opens her eyes, something that happens again to one of the prints hanging in his room. Soon Isaac is visited by her ghost and begins to believe that he has been transported to a realm of ''absolute love.''
The charm of ''The Strange Case of Angelica'' lies in the way it balances this mysticism with a thoroughly secular sense of the business of everyday life. Not that any of the nonsupernatural occurrences that surround Isaac -- the Greek-chorus chitchat among his landlady and her friends; the steady work in the fields and olive groves; the rise and fall of empires and economies -- are exactly banal. The world as seen through Mr. Oliveira's lens is as fresh as if it had just been discovered and as thick with secrets as if it had always existed.
Of course, both things are more or less true, and Mr. Oliveira's film has the added virtue of feeling entirely original even as it evokes a number of rich literary and cinematic traditions. As a ghost story, it owes more to Henry James's psychological curiosity than to Edgar Allan Poe's sensationalism, but it is also indebted to the various kinds of realism that flourished, in film and in novels, in the early and middle decades of the last century. Finally, though, it exhausts comparison, even to other films by this director, who has both done everything and is just getting started.
The Strange Case of Angelica
Opens on Wednesday in Manhattan.
Written and directed by Manoel de Oliveira; director of photography, Sabine Lancelin; edited by Valerie Loiseleux; sets by Christian Marti and Jose Pedro Pen-ha; costumes by Adelaide Trepa; produced by Francois d'Artemare, Maria Joao Mayer, Luis Minarro, Renata deAlmeida and Leon Cakoff; released by Cinema Guild. At the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village. In Portuguese, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 37minutes. This film is not rated. WITH: Ricardo Trepa (Isaac), PilarLopez de Ayala (Angelica), Leonor Silveira (Mother), Luis Miguel Cintra (Engineer), Ana Maria Magalhaes (Clementina) and Isabel Ruth (Servant).
The Strange Case of Angelica Opens on Wednesday in Manhattan. Written and directed by Manoel de Oliveira; director of photography, Sabine Lancelin; edited by Valerie Loiseleux; sets by Christian Marti and Jose Pedro Penha; costumes by Adelaide Trepa; produced by Francois d'Artemare, Maria Joao Mayer, Luis Minarro, Renata de Almeida and Leon Cakoff; released by Cinema Guild. At the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village. In Portuguese, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated. WITH: Ricardo Trepa (Isaac), Pilar Lopez de Ayala (Angelica), Leonor Silveira (Mother), Luis Miguel Cintra (Engineer), Ana Maria Magalhaes (Clementina) and Isabel Ruth (Servant).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ricardo Trepa in ''The Strange Case of Angelica,'' a new Portuguese feature by Manoel de Oliveira, who turned 102 this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY iFC FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (88%); FARM LABOR (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); AGRICULTURE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) PORTUGAL (91%); UNITED STATES (77%)

TITLE: Strange Case of Angelica, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



766 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Olympic TV Rights: How High to Bid?

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Does Comcast cherish the Olympics with the same fervor as did General Electric, which has paid billions to make NBC the network of the Summer and the Winter Games for a generation?
The question arises because Comcast, the nation's largest cable operator, is close to regulatory approval to buy control of NBC Universal from G.E. in a deal valued at $30 billion -- and because the Olympics are near-certain guarantees of prime-time dominance for 17 nights every two years.
As early as next spring, Comcast will face ESPN, Fox and a possible CBS-Turner Sports bid at the International Olympic Committee's auction for the media rights to the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, and the 2016 Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro.
''I don't think Comcast wants its first move with its new partner to be a negative one and to lose something NBC has had for years,'' said Barry Frank, an executive vice president of IMG who has negotiated Olympic deals in the past. 
Comcast, which serves 22.9 million of the nation's 100 million pay-television subscribers, according to SNL Kagan, has done little to tip its Olympic intentions. But it understands the effect of sports through its ownership of Versus, the Golf Channel, 11 regional sports networks, the Philadelphia Flyers and the 76ers.
And its chairman, Brian Roberts, who has won four silver medals and one gold in team squash at the Maccabiah Games, attended the 2010 Vancouver Games.
But Comcast has reason to be cautious about plunging into Olympic economics, where the cost of buying media rights in the United States has soared almost without a dip since CBS paid $50,000 for the 1960 Winter Games in Squaw Valley, Calif.
NBC lost $223 million on the 2010 Games because of the recession and the steep price it paid to carry them; the network could lose more on the 2012 Olympics in London on its highest-ever $1.18 billion rights fee.
''They're eager to show they can make money running NBC, and the Olympics may not be a way of doing it,'' said Craig Moffett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
The I.O.C.'s auction for the 2014 and '16 rights, which has been delayed to avoid the worst of the recession, will test the networks' desires to demonstrate financial prudence.
Jacques Rogge, the I.O.C. president, said recently that he wanted more than $2.2 billion, which G.E. paid for the 2010 and '12 rights and for a global sponsorship. But Comcast, without international interests like G.E.'s, has no reason to buy such a sponsorship. G.E. said in 2008 that its sponsorship was paying off with $700 million in contracts for 400 Olympic projects in and around Beijing.
Privately, the I.O.C. thinks the Sochi-Rio media rights could be worth as much as $2.7 billion.
But, Moffett said, ''It's a stretch to imagine making money at $2 billion.''
Network executives say they think that Sochi is less valuable than Vancouver (cost: $820 million) because of its relatively warm winter climate and that Rio should not bring as large a rights fee as a domestic Olympics would have in Chicago, one of the losing bidders in the election to host the 2016 Games.
But Richard Carrion, the I.O.C. member handling the auction, said in an interview, ''I think there are plenty of things to make Sochi an exciting place, and Rio is a good summer site.''
Last month, Leslie Moonves, the president of CBS, mindful of NBC's losses and what the I.O.C. is seeking, seemed to indicate he would bow out of the auction if he could not get a bargain.
''We don't need to invest in something to lose money,'' Moonves told an industry conference, ''or just to help the prestige of the network. I think we're already there.''
Despite its ability to acquire much of what it wants, ESPN has signaled that it will not be profligate in its Olympic bidding, which acts as a preauction brake on the I.O.C.'s optimism.
Last April, ESPN was outbid for the rights to the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament by the combined forces of CBS and Turner, which are paying $10.8 billion over 14 years. ESPN offered 10 percent less than CBS and Turner.
''The N.C.A.A. is instructive,'' said John Skipper, ESPN's executive vice president for content. ''We felt we had the best plan. I'm confident we'll have an excellent Olympic plan, but, like the N.C.A.A., we expect to be aggressive and prudent.''
NBC and Comcast officials declined to comment.
Acquiring the rights to the Olympics is often a case of want, not need. They provide 17 days of highly rated programming and blanket the Internet. But they lack the week-to-week power of N.F.L. games like those that NBC carries on Sunday nights, which is the network's highest-rated program.
Dick Ebersol, who has run NBC's sports division since 1989, adores the Olympics, produces them and would probably have left if another network had acquired them. He is part of the Olympic movement, was a close friend of the former I.O.C. president Juan Antonio Samaranch and is a recipient of the committee's highest honor, the Olympic Order.
In two stealthy moves in 1995 -- one of which came shortly after Fox Sports thought it had pre-empted NBC on the 2000 Summer Games in Sydney, Australia -- Ebersol acquired the rights to the Olympics from 2000 to 2008. Then he outbid Fox by $700 million at the auction for the 2010 and '12 rights, for which ESPN offered only a plan to share revenue with the I.O.C.
Now, Ebersol's sealed bids at the coming auction will be made with Comcast's financial analysis and approval. The purse strings will be held by Roberts, not by Olympic-friendly G.E. chairmen like Jack Welch or Jeffrey Immelt. Instead of working for top NBC executives like Bob Wright or Jeff Zucker, Ebersol will report to Stephen B. Burke.
Wright, who as the chairman and chief executive of NBC Universal was part of a small group that plotted the network's extended era of Olympic domination, said that the economic projections that justified a bid could be undone by a bad economy years later, which occurred in Vancouver.
''I don't think anybody at this stage thinks they have to have the Olympics to survive, or that the Olympics will change their business model in a significant way to take a big business risk,'' said Wright, now an adviser to Lee Capital Partners. ''So Comcast certainly doesn't have to have the Olympics to make NBC Universal successful.''
But a rationale can be made for cash-rich Comcast to follow G.E.'s aggressive example. Analysts say that Comcast can help to monetize its rights fees by selling Olympic video-on-demand packages to its millions of broadband customers and that Olympic advertisers could flock to reach its millions of cable and broadband subscribers.
Comcast could raise Versus's low profile by packing it with Olympic events like those that have been on NBC Universal-owned networks like USA, CNBC and MSNBC. With golf returning as an Olympic sport in 2016, the Golf Channel would carry the sport.
Putting the Olympics on Versus could also be a major step toward becoming a stronger rival to ESPN, especially if Comcast stocks it with cable rights to the N.F.L. (the league could create a new package out of expanding to an 18-game schedule), extends its N.H.L. deal and pursues a Major League Baseball contract.
''Comcast is buying NBC in large part to go out and beat up ESPN,'' said Susan Crawford, a professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, who is writing a book about the Comcast-NBC Universal deal.
Skipper, of ESPN, said, ''It's not hard to see how Versus could be helpful to their bid.''
With the Olympics -- and more -- Versus could expand beyond its 75 million subscribers and raise the average 30-cents-a-subscriber fee it charges pay-TV operators . ESPN charges an industrywide high fee of about $4.50 but is not planning on trying to persuade operators to pay more if it buys the Olympic rights. ESPN intends to show everything live, even at Sochi time, an alteration to a policy begun at ABC and continued at NBC.
Crawford said that if Comcast made a strong challenge to ESPN, then ''the foreclosure value of keeping ESPN out of the Olympics is higher than the market value of the Olympics.''
But if Comcast does not follow G.E. in making a blowout bid, it could cajole the I.O.C. to sell the rights to four Olympics, not just Sochi and Rio, Crawford said.
At least one network has already asked to buy the four Games through 2020, according to two sports industry executives with different roles in the coming auction who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Carrion, of the I.O.C., said that the organization would prefer not to let one company make a pre-emptive bid but that he would consider asking if the networks want to buy the rights to four Olympics through 2020 ''because this is a long-term investment.''
Until the auction, the I.O.C. and the networks will joust publicly about what the next Olympic Games are worth. As G.E. proved by underwriting NBC's ambitions, all it takes is one network to show the greatest desire for the Olympics to satisfy the I.O.C.
''Don't underestimate them,'' Wright said of the I.O.C. ''They're a very smart, savvy crowd.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Snowboarder Shaun White
NBC has been the network of the Olympics, but it lost $223 million on this year's Vancouver Games, and could lose more at the 2012 London Games. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP, MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS
JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Above, Brian Roberts is the chairman of Comcast Corp. Left, Dick Ebersol is a longtime key figure in NBC's acquisition and coverage of the Olympics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ALCORN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK DEMPSEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Michael Phelps and a teammate after the United States won the gold in the men's 4x100 freestyle at the Beijing Games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B8)
 The closing ceremony of this year's Vancouver Olympics. The 2014 Games will be in Sochi, Russia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM STALLKNECHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11) CHART: Olympic Rights Fees in the NBC Era: Since NBC won the rights to the 1988 Summer Olympics, the network has outbid its competition 10 of 13 times. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); SNOWBOARDING (78%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ICE HOCKEY (58%); APPROVALS (57%)

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (93%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); TURNER SPORTS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (54%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (58%); BRIAN L ROBERTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (71%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



767 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: A Rarity in Its Region, a Lebanese Paper Dares to Provoke

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- Ibrahim al-Amine, the hawk-eyed editorial chairman of Al Akhbar, describes his newspaper's founding ambitions this way: ''We wanted the U.S. ambassador to wake up in the morning, read it and get upset.''
He succeeded. Earlier this month Al Akhbar became the only Arab newspaper to obtain its own substantial batch of WikiLeaks cables and gleefully cataloged various embarrassments to the region's kings, princes and politicians. Soon afterward, the paper's popular Web site came under a cyberattack that became a story in its own right, and provided more free publicity.
It was the latest coup for a five-year-old paper that has become the most dynamic and daring in Lebanon, and perhaps anywhere in the Arab world. In a region where the news media are still full of obsequious propaganda, Al Akhbar is now required reading, even for those who abhor its politics. 
They are a remarkable blend: the paper champions gay rights, feminism and other leftist causes, even as it wholeheartedly supports Hezbollah, the Iranian-backed Shiite movement. Al Akhbar's access to Hezbollah allows it to scoop other papers on Lebanon's biggest continuing story, but it also publishes muckraking exposes on the abuse of domestic workers, prison overcrowding and other delicate subjects. Add splashy full-page color photos and witty tabloid-style headlines, and you have an alluring product.
''Our project is basically anti-imperialism,'' said Khaled Saghieh, Al Akhbar's mild and cerebral managing editor, who abandoned a Ph.D. in political science at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, to help start the paper. That insurrectionary theme, he said, links the paper's resistance to neoliberal economic policies and its support for Hezbollah's fight against Israel. There are plenty of disagreements with Hezbollah, whose members regularly call to complain about articles -- though not in any official capacity. But the Shiite group's leaders appear to recognize the importance of maintaining alliances across Lebanon's complex sectarian and political landscape.
Al Akhbar has sometimes criticized Hezbollah in print (though mildly), and Mr. Saghieh himself -- who writes a regular column -- has written excoriating critiques of Hezbollah's chief Christian ally, the party of Michel Aoun, a former general.
The paper suffers from many of the same flaws as the mainstream Arab press: too much reliance on single sources, and news pages that often show a loose mingling of fact, rumor and opinion.
Still, it is refreshingly free of the slavish headlines that are so common across the Middle East: the king's visit to the airport, the president's trip to the mosque. Even the pan-Arab press, largely owned by Saudi Arabia, is seriously constrained in what it can say. Lebanon has long had the most freewheeling news media in the region, but its outlets are often vehicles for their owners, usually political bosses or businessmen with a sectarian ax to grind. Reporters are often pawns in this game: Rafik Hariri, the billionaire former prime minister who was assassinated in 2005, used to send around envelopes of cash to his favorites.
Al Akhbar wanted to break free of that formula. Its founding editor, a revered left-wing journalist named Joseph Samaha, found a London-based investment banker to underwrite the venture in 2006 while promising not to interfere with editorial content. Mr. Samaha envisioned a paper with a strong political commitment but no attachments to any particular party, and a refusal to be constrained by anyone.
''We are going to show that you can make a profitable paper without bowing to any government,'' said Hassan Khalil, the banker, who is the paper's chief owner, in a telephone call from London. ''We wanted to make something new: a truly independent newspaper.'' The paper broke even last year, Mr. Khalil said.
The handful of other owners include members of the staff. The paper receives no support from Iran, Syria or Hezbollah, Mr. Khalil said, despite accusations from its ideological foes that began even before the paper started printing.
Al Akhbar's print circulation is dismally low, 10,000 to 15,000, though comparable to circulations at Lebanon's other leading papers. The industry is fading here, as everywhere. But Al Akhbar's Web site is by far the most popular of any Lebanese newspaper's, and its editors see a broader audience for their product. They are starting an English-language version, set for introduction early next year.
Critics say the paper's protestations of editorial freedom ring a little hollow, given that it operates under the tacit protection of Hezbollah, Lebanon's most potent military force. It was reporters on the other side of the political fence, many Lebanese say, who took the greatest risks for their views in recent years, and paid the price. Samir Kassir and Gebran Tueni, critics of Syria and Hezbollah who worked for the older and more pro-American newspaper An Nahar, were both killed by car bombs in 2005.
But there is a youthful energy and conviction at Al Akhbar that is lacking at many other papers. The offices, on the sixth floor of a West Beirut office building, above a supermarket, have more of the feel of a college newspaper than a major daily. The staff members are mostly in their 20s and 30s, and seem to see the place as a kind of alternative family. There are pictures everywhere of Mr. Samaha, whose death from a heart attack in 2007 -- less than six months after the paper's founding -- was a serious blow.
''Joseph was our father, our friend, our drinking partner,'' said Omar Nashabe, editor of Al Akhbar's crusading Justice page.
Like several of the editors, Mr. Nashabe is fully conversant with American culture; he earned a Ph.D. in criminal justice from the State University of New York, Albany, before joining the paper. He is responsible for some of the paper's most socially liberal columns, and talks excitedly about the need for new laws to defend foreign laborers and women's sexual rights. He brushes off the angry letters and phone calls he gets from social conservatives, including some in Hezbollah.
But no one apologizes for Al Akhbar's vehement support for ''the resistance,'' as Hezbollah's armed forces are known here. A portrait of Imad Mughniyeh, the legendary Hezbollah commando who was assassinated in 2008, hangs in the office of Mr. Amine, the chairman of the board.
''Our Che,'' Mr. Amine says, as he leads a visitor into his office and proudly displays the portrait. After Mr. Mughniyeh was killed in Damascus, Syria, Al Akhbar published an amazing scoop: a personal interview with Mr. Mughniyeh, done months earlier and written by Mr. Amine, who was a personal friend.
If Mr. Saghieh and Mr. Nashabe are the paper's Western-friendly faces, Mr. Amine is its hard-line bulldog, a grizzled Marxist whose columns are widely viewed as telegraphs from the Hezbollah leadership (or parts of it). He offers his visitors tea, then reels off some of his own fondest hopes: to replace the oppressive governments of the Arab world, redraw the colonial-era borders, remove Israel from the map and send the Jews back to Europe -- they would be more comfortable, after all, in a capitalist environment.
''I hope I haven't provoked you,'' he says at last, somehow managing to avoid a smirk.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Al Akhbar's front desk in a Beirut office building. The newspaper backs various leftist causes and supports Hezbollah, the Iranian-backed Shiite movement.
Ernest Khoury, an editor of Al Akhbar, working beneath a portrait of Karl Marx. Al Akhbar's chief owner is an investment banker based in London. (A4)
 A photograph of Joseph Samaha, the founding editor of Al Akhbar who died in 2007, hanging in the newspaper's offices. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (89%); POLITICS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); WEB SITES (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); LGBT RIGHTS (52%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); PRISONS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (91%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



768 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEXICO CITY JOURNAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Bare-Bones Approach Lets a City Embrace Winter

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- Homero Aridjis, one of Mexico's most revered poets, lives in a large home in the hills of this ancient city, with expensive paintings, imported rugs -- and an array of items to help him keep warm, including door-stoppers shaped like snakes, thick wool sweaters, even microwaveable pillows.
His home, like nearly every building in this megalopolis of 20 million people, has no central heating. And because concrete is the dominant building material, winter here means an indoor existence with temperatures not far from freezing. 
''In the United States, you heat the room or the house,'' Mr. Aridjis said. ''In Mexico City, you heat the body.''
It is one of the fascinating quirks of Mexico City -- the way Chilangos, as the city's residents are known -- deal with the weather. Deep in this country's Aztec roots, there is admiration for submitting to the elements, and it seems to re-emerge every winter with force.
It is not simply the lack of central heating that confounds Americans and Europeans in this mountainous city at an altitude of more than 7,000 feet. It is the ubiquity of the cold as well. In expensive restaurants, in grocery stores and museums, in the homes of the poor, middle-class and even the wealthy, a small space heater is often the only thing breathing warm air.
Architects say this is partly a matter of economics, but not in the way one might expect. Mexican builders and homeowners have simply grown accustomed to construction without central heating, and with single-pane windows that are especially porous to heat and cold. As a result, insulation materials are profoundly expensive here.
Fernando Sandoval, an architect who used to work for Anderson Windows, the American chain, said that given such prices, double-pane glass and central heating could eat up a sixth of the total cost of construction. Few seem to bother. Even the most modern apartments here, with stainless-steel appliances and granite countertops, are often devoid of radiators or thermostats.
''They all say, 'I'd rather have hardwood floors,' '' Mr. Sandoval said. ''Or, 'It's only going to be cold for a month or a month and a half, I'd rather buy a really nice Italian cashmere sweater.' ''
The thing is, winter here lasts more than a month. Temperatures begin dipping into the 40s at night in November, and fall further in December, January and part of February. Ruben Gallo, a professor at Princeton who edited The Mexico City Reader, a chronicle of the capital, said Mexicans have a hard time admitting this is the case. He likened the contradiction to an essay by Octavio Paz in his book ''Labyrinth of Solitude,'' in which the Nobel-prize-winning author described the gap between Mexico's idealized self-portrait -- as seen in documents like its Constitution -- and the messier, more corrupt routine of daily life.
''We're always struggling with what Mexico really is,'' Mr. Gallo said. ''It's a slight disconnect between the image and the reality of living in a city that has a mountain climate.''
The weather of the region may be getting more extreme as well. For as long as anyone can remember, millions of monarch butterflies have wintered in central Mexico after traveling south, but they were greeted by hail last March. In 3 of the last 10 winters, at least half of the population died as a result of the erratic weather.
In this sense, the lack of central heating is a plus. The array of space heaters available at Home Depot here -- short and round, tall and thin, and everything in between -- are sometimes considered better for the environment because they may use less energy than a full home heating system.
For many Mexicans, though, the lack of heat has less to do with protecting the environment than with accepting it. Mr. Gallo said that while Americans try to fix the cold, Mexicans rely on fatalism as a means of coping, a sense ''that this is how it's supposed to be.''
Mr. Sandoval offered another take: ''The weather is something you participate in,'' he said. ''It's something that you're part of.''
Mr. Aridjis, the poet, agreed. During a tour of his book-filled, ice-box of a home, he recalled growing up in the state of Michoacan, near where the butterflies gather. He said he sometimes found ice crystals in the shower, but he also fondly recalled a rhythm of writing by temperature. He would work for several hours until the chill consumed him, then he would step outside to soak in the warming rays of a winter sun.
For the Aztecs, the sun gods were among the most revered of the deities, and Mr. Aridjis says it should come as no surprise that access to sunlight dominates any assessment of Mexico City real estate. ''We are a solar people,'' he said. ''This is a solar city.''
He acknowledged that some found the approach trying. ''I remember when Octavio Paz came from Europe, and he said to me 'this country has the most terrible weather in the world. I hate the cold.' ''
But would Mr. Aridjis ever consider changing, adding heat to his home? What if someone offered to replace his windows, and add central heating for free? Mr. Aridjis looked skyward and smiled. ''No,'' he said. ''I couldn't do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Residents braved the cold this month at a market. Nearly every building here has no central heat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER SZYMASZEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); THERMAL SENSORS (70%); RESTAURANTS (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



769 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: For $10, $20, Clearing Cars And Walks, In a Flash

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
Some are just out of prison, others have Ivy League degrees. Many are day laborers who speak no English. A few are women. All are entrepreneurs, in an all-cash, tax-free enterprise that exploits desperation and deadlines.
''This is our time,'' said Eddie Claborn, 44 and unemployed. ''We wait all year for this.'' 
Mr. Claborn and his shovel were a popular duo on the Upper West Side on Tuesday morning. Between 8:30 and 9 a.m., he had dug out five cars, pocketing $10 or $20 for each one. He was busy freeing a Hyundai imprisoned by a wall of snow when he was summoned by a well-dressed man who could not extricate his truck -- despite its four-wheel drive -- from the icy grip of a curbside snowdrift.
''Be right with you,'' yelled Mr. Claborn, who lives in the nearby Frederick Douglass public housing project. ''Just trying to earn an honest buck,'' he said later.
A snowstorm in New York means frustrating delays for some, frolicking furloughs for others, and pure opportunity for the roving bands of shovelers-for-fire. These freelancers work alone or in small groups, and often carry several snow-clearing implements, including the broad-bladed plow of a shovel for powdery patches, and a sturdier, sharper chopper to loosen icy sections.
''This is the hacker, and this is the pusher,'' said Michael Williams, 57, of Washington Heights, pausing during a $40 job in front of the Silver Moon Bakery at Broadway and 105th Street.
While Mr. Claborn works as a side-street hustler, searching for stranded motorists and letting them decide what to pay, Mr. Williams is a bit more like a businessman; he shakes on his deals with merchants and then goes about strategically clearing their stretches of sidewalk, in the manner of a suburban landscaper.
Then there is Denton Alexander Smith, 31, a Columbia University graduate who pocketed $35 for a 45-minute job clearing the sidewalk in front of a nail salon on Castle Hill Avenue in the Bronx on Monday. And Makavel Strad, 32, who said he had just finished a 15-year term in an upstate prison for drug offenses; shoveling was not as lucrative as dealing, he said, but he made $50 in three hours before noon on Monday.
''This snowstorm is the great equalizer,'' Mr. Strad said.
Along Fordham Road in the Bronx, Jose Ramos, 49, was one of many shovelers who made deals with business owners to clear the sidewalks in front of their stores: the city can levy fines on property owners or managers for sidewalks that remain uncleared more than four hours after snow stops falling. Mr. Ramos shoveled in front of a clothing store for $15. A woman opening up the adjacent GNC store hired him on the spot to clear her sidewalk, also for $15.
Nearby, Marcos Dias, 23, was clearing snow using a shovel he had rented from the superintendent of his building that morning for $5.
''Hey, it's a good investment -- I'll make $80 today at least,'' said Mr. Dias, whose wife, Andrea Mercado, 29, was standing by, watching. ''She finds the jobs, and I shovel them.''
Julio Davila, 45, who lives in the Westchester Square section of the Bronx, said he started shoveling at 7 a.m. Monday and had pocketed $70 by 11 a.m., when he stopped for breakfast. He expected to make $150 by sundown.
''It's tax-free, and times are rough right now,'' said Mr. Davila, who works the overnight shift at the Acme Cake Company in Brooklyn. Along Northern Boulevard in Queens, the Hispanic laborers who typically gather on certain corners in hopes of construction work took to the snowy streets in groups.
Maria Texi, 30, and Maria Pullay, 32, Ecuadorean immigrants, bought $10 shovels and began hauling snow away from storefronts.
''We do it because we need the money,'' Ms. Pullay said.
Many of the shovelers on the Upper East Side of Manhattan had traveled from East Harlem. On East 75th Street, three such men -- Fernando Martinez, 23, Gabriel Garcia, 25, and Thomas Perez, 21 -- dug out a woman's car in a matter of minutes for $25.
On the Upper West Side, Cliff Taylor, 35, who lives in a homeless shelter in Brooklyn, was charging $30 per car.
''I tell them, 'If you wait, it might turn to ice and you'll wish you paid it,' '' he said. ''Of course, they could hire me and then a plow comes along afterwards and bury the car again, but that's the chance they got to take.''
Not far away, Mr. Claborn was still working for tens and twenties, hopping quickly from one job to the next. He freed up the Ford Escape belonging to Craig Cepler, a 33-year-old lawyer. ''I worked for a half-hour, and he got it out in five minutes,'' Mr. Cepler marveled.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eddie Claborn, one of the many freelance shovelers around the city, freed Craig Cepler's Ford Escape on West 85th Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (70%); RETAILERS (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); PUBLIC HOUSING (53%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



770 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Selling the World on Russia (Leaving Out the Spies)

BYLINE: By ANDREW KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW
ADORE CREATIVE, a Los Angeles advertising agency, has a client with global influence, deep pockets, a wealth of resources -- and an image problem the size of Siberia.
That client is Russia, which many outsiders still associate with spies, the gulag, gangsters, breadlines and permafrost, not to mention retrograde politics.
These are some of the prickly issues that Rupert Wainwright, Adore's president and chief creative director, was hired to deal with when Russian officials approached him in 2007.
''The mission I set for myself was make it fun,'' Mr. Wainwright said recently at a Moscow cafe, a freezing wind whipping down the street outside. 
''The big issue with Russia is, you have to normalize it,'' he said. If people see that sense of normalness, he said, ''the country will de-demonize itself.''
To many Westerners and human rights agencies, the demons still exist, in the form of official corruption, a puppet judicial system and repression of what little political opposition remains. Russia is the most corrupt major economy in the world, according to Transparency International, and Freedom House considers Russia ''not free'' politically.
Nevertheless, Mr. Wainwright and several other Western advertising agencies have helped Russia score several big victories on the world stage: in the last three years it has won the right to host the 2014 Winter Olympics, the 2013 World University Games, and most recently the 2018 World Cup soccer tournament. Mr. Wainwright's company made films for all three campaigns.
Along the way Mr. Wainwright discovered that old-school ideas die hard, even among those trying to shed them. He has fought philosophical battles with Kremlin authorities as he tried to persuade them to embrace a more open, cheerful image of their country.
And, of course, he is dealing with a government that demands absolute control and veto power. He described one senior official spending several hours poring over the story boards for the Olympic film, and making subtle changes. For instance, the official ruled out a scene showing an Orthodox church, saying it put too much emphasis on Christianity, and preferred instead to play up Russia's multiethnic, multireligious character.
Adore Creative is one of a half-dozen or so Western advertising agencies working closely with the inner circle of Russia's government -- a blending of ''Mad Men'' and Kremlin apparatchiks. Russia uses the Ketchum agency for general issues and Weber Shandwick for sports marketing. It hires Adore to make films.
''We needed to influence a foreign audience, so we needed somebody to see Russia with a foreigner's eyes,'' said Aleksei L. Sorokin, the chief executive of the World Cup bid committee.
Mr. Wainwright's company was paid $2.7 million for the World Cup project.
Though he mostly interacts with the heads of the bid committees, Mr. Wainwright in his dealings can reach into the upper echelons of the Kremlin. He has worked with Dmitri S. Peskov, the personal press aide for Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, who also has broad oversight over Russia's image for foreign audiences, and Igor I. Shuvalov, a first deputy prime minister and Mr. Putin's No. 2 in the Cabinet.
The involvement of high-level officials underscores how seriously the government takes its global image, but it also presents Mr. Wainwright with a grey-suited bloc of bureaucracy that he must try to crack through with his ideas.
No project was more challenging for Mr. Wainwright than his first one, the film for Olympic campaign.
Mr. Wainwright presented an upbeat proposal titled ''From Russia With Love'' that was to end with a crowd of children in Red Square shouting the phrase in English. He said it was met with stone-faced silence by officials, who protested that the title -- from a James Bond film -- conveyed cold war espionage.
Instead they preferred a loosely cut video they had prepared on their own, a black-and-white montage of post-Soviet street protests and the Berlin Wall falling down, apparently indicating the end of Communism 20 years ago.
It was revealing of the tin ear the Kremlin often displays for public relations even on a matter as positive as the Olympics. It was also, Mr. Wainwright said, ''the most depressing thing I ever saw.''
Mr. Wainwright could not have been more surprised when Russia hired him early in 2007. A native of England, he made a name filming music videos for rap musicians in the 1980s, including the video for ''Straight Outta Compton'' by the group NWA. He had branched into documentaries and commercials when Media Arts, a large Russian publicity company, called out of the blue, asking if he could do something unusual for the Olympic campaign.
''I had about as much knowledge of Russia as the man on the street,'' he said.
He quickly learned, though, that Russia was the underdog in the Olympic race, up against Salzburg, Austria, and Pyeongchang, South Korea. Mr. Wainwright's plan was to ''warm up people to the idea of Russia.''
He used that principle to guide the Olympic bid film. When Russian officials rejected the ''From Russia With Love'' concept, Mr. Wainwright wheedled in vain. Frustrated, he asked a senior Kremlin official to explain his own associations with the word Russia.
''I said, 'throw me a bone here, dude,' '' Mr. Wainwright said.
Mr. Wainwright said the official replied: ''When I think of Russia, I think of secrets. I think of nuclear secrets. I think of Russia as a matryoshka doll,'' referring to the nesting dolls of many layers. ''You open it, and it's a secret within a secret within a secret.''
Mr. Wainwright said he replied, ''Well, me too, but that is not what we need to pitch.''
He did, however, latch onto the image of a Russia with many layers. The result was the video ''Russia, the Door Is Open,'' which moves through seven sunny, emotive environments in Russia by opening doors. In the first frames, the doors to the Kremlin itself fly open, and the viewer zooms inside this icon of Russian secrecy and power.
''The title is important,'' Mr. Wainwright said. ''Russia is not the closed world you thought it was.'' The video was shot on location, with the cooperation of Russian authorities, though the crew encountered enough red tape that they sometimes referred to the film as ''Russia, the Door Is Jammed'' or ''Russia, the Door Shut on my Finger.''
After the successful Olympic bid, Adore Creative shot films for the University Games and the World Cup. In the World Cup video, ''Sasha's Big Day,'' a boy dribbles a soccer ball with cosmonauts, nomads and ballerinas, but also through prosaic settings like shopping malls and on a school bus.
Mr. Wainwright said that film was intended to show that Russia was ''like the West, only more beautiful in many ways.''
He did not express any misgivings about working with Russia, despite criticism of the government's heavy-handed rule. Like the officials who hired him, he said Russia's positive attributes were often overlooked.
Adore Creative is now working on what may be its most daunting project, one that lacks the natural grandeur of the country itself: videos that promote the national oil company, Rosneft.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A film by Adore Creative helped Russia land the 2018 World Cup soccer tournament. ''The big issue with Russia is, you have to normalize it,'' said the president of Adore, Rupert Wainwright, top, opposite the Kremlin. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADORE CREATIVE
 JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (86%); SPORTS (86%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (86%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); VETO (71%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); WINTER SPORTS (65%); WINTER OLYMPICS (64%); SOCCER (64%); RELIGION (60%); THEATER (56%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (55%); FREEDOM HOUSE (55%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



771 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Providence Project Offers Health Care and Hope

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ABBOTT

 BODY:
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -- For more than 40 years, Providence Community Health Centers has performed a vital role in this city by providing medical care to many of its poorest citizens.
Some 20 percent of Providence residents use the health centers' network of seven clinics for medical and dental services, relieving demand for charity care on the state's nonprofit hospitals, said Merrill R. Thomas, the chief executive of the nonprofit organization, which was established in 1968.
Now the health centers are assuming an even greater role in one of the city's most distressed neighborhoods, Upper South Providence. With a combination of private and public financing that includes the use of historic tax credits, the group is building a 40,200-square-foot clinic on a three-and-a-half acre full-block site on Prairie Avenue, a street long associated with blight and economic despair. 
The clinic is to be the cornerstone of a medical-retail complex that will include a separate, stand-alone Walgreen's drug store and a rehabilitated brick factory that Lifespan, the state's largest hospital network, has agreed to lease for office space and possibly medical services and educational programs.
In all, the $38 million project will have some 95,200 square feet of commercial and retail space in three separate buildings: the health center, which will be new construction, and two historic buildings that will be renovated and expanded. Demolition of the site's nonhistoric structures took place over the summer, and the health center's ground-breaking is planned for early next year.
The development is poised to be a rare economic success story for Upper South Providence, a mostly residential community of some 5,000 people, most of them black and Hispanic, which was largely overlooked in the so-called Providence Renaissance that reshaped the downtown section of the city in the 1980s and '90s.
It has the support of the city's Historic District Commission and Department of Planning and Development, as well as that of elected officials who represent Upper South Providence.
''The area I represent probably has the highest unemployment rate in Rhode Island,'' said Luis Aponte, a Providence councilman whose district includes part of South Providence.
Mr. Aponte said his constituents welcomed the development and were eager to take advantage of any job opportunities it might bring. ''It's a good news story with lots of promise,'' he said.
The health centers bought the site in 2003 for $965,000. There were 10 structures on it at that time, including two factories that once housed a printing company, Federated Lithographers, and a tool shop, Beaman & Smith, both which had been vacant for some time.
But getting the project off the ground required the commitment of a tenant who would pay enough rent for substantial space in the Federated Lithographer building to make the development financially feasible for Providence Community Health Centers, Mr. Thomas said.
That tenant came along this year when Lifespan agreed to pay $5.5 million over 10 years to lease 27,000 square feet in the factory building, which has a total of 50,000 square feet. Since then Walgreen's has signed on to lease 5,000 square feet in a separate building on the block.
Providence Community Health Centers has 35,000 patients and a staff of more than 300, a number that is expected to grow as more money is channeled to community health centers under President Obama's health care overhaul, Mr. Thomas said. The new health center will replace the nearby Allen Berry clinic, which is severely overcrowded, he said.
The project's supporters hope it will lead to general economic development in the severely depressed neighborhood surrounding the development site. They see it as a catalyst for the creation of jobs and home ownership in Upper South Providence, a neighborhood where 70 percent of the children live in poverty and 65 percent of residents have incomes of less than 200 percent of the federal poverty level, according to recent statistics.
''The point here is really to affect change and improve people's lives,'' said Darrell A. Lee, the president of BCOG Planning Associates, which was hired by Providence Community Health Centers to help pull the project together.
Mr. Lee has assembled a group of influential stakeholders including Lifespan, Brown University, Citizens Bank and the Community College of Rhode Island, to support the Prairie Avenue Revitalization Initiative, an economic development plan that emphasizes work-force development, job creation and home ownership as much as the physical side of rehabilitating a neighborhood. The initiative's goal is to stimulate $300 million in investment in a commercial-retail-residential district along Prairie Avenue.
The stakeholders have pledged publicly to support the initiative, but their precise roles and level of financial commitment are, for the most part, still evolving, Mr. Lee said.
For Mr. Lee, an M.I.T.-educated planner whose office has been across the street from the Federated Lithographer building since 2003, the revitalization of Prairie Avenue has become a personal mission.
''I was called to do this work right here,'' he said.
Lifespan, a nonprofit health care system that operates five hospitals in Rhode Island, including two near the Prairie Avenue site, signed on as an anchor tenant because it was committed to improving the lives of the residents, said George A. Vecchione, the chief executive.
The project also made medical sense to Lifespan because its hospitals often see the same patients as Providence Community Health. A closer relationship between the two major health care providers should make care more seamless and reduce redundant services, he added.
''The way to turn a community around is to provide people with jobs,'' said Mr. Vecchione, who added that Lifespan was the second-largest employer in Rhode Island after the state itself. ''We have the jobs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Merrill R. Thomas, of Providence Community Health Centers, on the site of the future clinic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MERGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); CHARITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); DENTISTRY (72%); PROPERTY LEASES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RETAILERS (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (66%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (57%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (96%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



772 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Slipped in December

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Consumer confidence in the United States unexpectedly deteriorated in December, while prices of single-family homes fell at almost double the expected pace in October, tempering growing optimism on the economy's recovery. 
The latest data was at odds with other signs suggesting the recovery was accelerating.
The Conference Board, an industry group, said its index of consumer attitudes slipped to 52.5 in December from an upwardly revised 54.3 in November.
The median of forecasts from analysts polled by Reuters was for a reading of 56.
Consumers' labor market assessment worsened. The ''jobs hard to get'' index rose to 46.8 percent in December from 46.3 percent last month, while the ''jobs plentiful'' index dropped to 3.9 percent from 4.3 percent.
''U.S. consumers are still worried about high unemployment, housing market stagnation and the generally meager growth they've seen so far,'' said Kathy Lien, director forcurrency research at GFT in New York.
A separate report on Tuesday showed the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller composite index of 20 metropolitan areas declined 1 percent in October from September on a seasonal basis.
It was the fourth monthly decline and steeper than the 0.6 percent decrease economists expected. The fall pushed the index 0.8 percent below its year-earlier level, the first year-on-year drop since January.
Optimism about the outlook for the economy has grown in recent weeks after reports on jobless claims, durable goods and consumer spending suggested the economy perked up a bit in the fourth quarter and appears to be entering the new year with a degree of momentum.
Economists also expect a tax cut deal to lift growth next year by as much as one percentage point. The economy is also getting monetary support from the Federal Reserve's planned purchases of $600 billion in government debt.
Despite the consumer confidence data, American retail sales rose in the week before Christmas as shoppers hurried to finish their gift-buying.
Data from the International Council of Shopping Centers and Goldman Sachs showed retail sales rose 4.8 percent for the week ended Dec. 25 compared with the year-earlier period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); RETAILERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); RETAIL SALES (66%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



773 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1158 words

PERSON: Alfred E. Kahn 

HEADLINE: Alfred E. Kahn, 93, Dies; Led Airline Deregulation

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Alfred E. Kahn, a Cornell University economist best known as the chief architect and promoter of deregulating the nation's airlines, despite opposition from industry executives and unions alike, died Monday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 93.
The cause was cancer, Cornell said in a statement.
Mr. Kahn, a leading regulatory scholar who wielded his influence in both government and academia, helped spur a broad movement beginning in the mid-1970s toward freer markets in rail and automotive transportation, telecommunications, utilities and the securities markets.
Before deregulation, the airlines were tightly controlled by the Civil Aeronautics Board, which approved routes and set fares that guaranteed airlines a 12 percent return on flights that were 55 percent full. The changes Mr. Kahn orchestrated resulted in increased competition, lower fares and the rise of low-cost carriers like JetBlue and Southwest. But they also created severe financial problems for the industry, leading to bankruptcies and mergers. 
''I have to concede that the competition that deregulation brought certainly was terribly, terribly hard on the airlines and their unions, who had heretofore enjoyed the benefits of protection from competition under regulation,'' Mr. Kahn said decades later.
He added that he accepted ''some responsibility'' for the industry's financial problems but said that it had eventually recovered, despite sharply rising oil prices and terrorist-related security costs.
Before he tackled such national issues, Mr. Kahn served as head of the New York State Public Service Commission, the regulator for electricity, gas, water and telephones. He introduced pricing that varied by season or time of day, producing efficiencies benefiting utilities and consumers.
But Mr. Kahn proved virtually helpless when, as the Consumer Price Index jumped in 1978 to 8 percent, President Jimmy Carter persuaded him to become inflation ''czar'' and to serve as chairman of the ill-fated Council on Wage and Price Stability, a job described by a sympathetic friend as serving as fire chief to a pyromaniac.
Before long in his new post, the voluble Mr. Kahn, shunning ''recession'' as a euphemism, warned of a ''very serious depression'' if inflation were not tamed, prompting a private rebuke by the president's chief domestic policy adviser, Stuart E. Eizenstat.
So instead, Mr. Kahn began referring in publicto a possible economic downturn as a ''banana,'' only to be chided by the president of the United Fruit Company and induced to shift once again to a different euphemism, ''kumquat.''
Mr. Kahn, operating without staff of his own and with inflation accelerating to above 10 percent, became so frustrated in late 1979 that he asked to be relieved of the job. ''I can't figure out why the president doesn't fire me,'' he joked grimly at the time. ''Actually, I do know,'' he added. ''Nobody would be foolish enough to take this job.''
His most significant public policy impact was undoubtedly as chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board, which he joined in 1977 under pressure from Mr. Carter and Vice President Walter F. Mondale. What Mr. Kahn had really wanted was to head the Federal Communications Commission.
''I don't think it's my highest aspiration to make it possible for people to jet all over the world when the future clearly has to belong to substituting telecommunications for travel,'' he recalled in a 2008 interview for this obituary, explaining his lack of enthusiasm for the civil aeronautics job.
An academic, Mr. Kahn knew almost nothing about the airline business -- to him planes were just ''marginal costs with wings'' -- but he quickly mastered the arcana and politics of routes, pricing and costs.
''Fred was clearly the perfect man to lead the airline deregulation effort,'' said John H. Shenefield, a Washington lawyer, in a 2003 tribute as Mr. Kahn accepted an award from the American Antitrust Institute, describing him as ''Carter's field general for deregulation.''
Mr. Kahn, drawing on considerable gifts of persuasion and media insight, led the struggle for enactment of the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, the first total dismantling of a federal regulatory regime since the 1930s.
Washington, he argued in various settings, had long fostered airline inefficiency and by thwarting competition was enabling carriers to keep fares artificially high.
While the industry was financially battered by the new law and some smaller cities lost service, Mr. Kahn over the years stoutly defended his handiwork by saying that many more Americans were flying with greater choice of carriers and at lower fares than ever before.
Alfred Edward Kahn, known as Fred, was born on Oct. 17, 1917, in Paterson, N. J., the son of Russian immigrants, and came of age during the Depression, which prompted his interest in economics. His father worked in a silk mill, eventually owning one himself.
After taking degrees at New York University and a Ph.D. at Yale, Mr. Kahn went to Washington to work briefly as a economist for the Brookings Institution, the Justice Department's antitrust division and the War Production Board before a 1943 Army stint that ended with a discharge for poor eyesight after basic training.
He joined the Cornell faculty in 1947 after two years at Ripon College in Wisconsin, where he began an extended academic career distinguished by publication of ''The Economics of Regulation,'' his landmark two-volume treatise, first published in 1970.
At Cornell, he served as dean of the college of arts and sciences and as a member of the board of trustees.
He became a favorite of colleagues and students, often holding forth while padding about in stocking feet or sitting with legs slung over the side of his chair.
Mr. Kahn was also an avid Savoyard, appearing in numerous campus productions of the light operas of Gilbert and Sullivan. ''I was a ham,'' he acknowledged, which ''made for a special relationship with the students.''
For nearly 30 years the Kahns lived on a large waterfront property on Lake Cayuga in which, to justify what seemed to him an outrageous expense, he forced himself to swim every day until it was too cold. He continued swimming into his 90s.
Mr. Kahn is survived by his wife, Mary Simmons Kahn; two daughters, Rachel Kahn-Fogel of Colchester, Vt., and Hannah Kahn of Denver; a son, Joel, of Melbourne, Australia; a nephew for whom he and his wife were legal guardians, Peter S. Boone of Arlington, Va.; eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
A longstanding revulsion to bureaucratic language, which he attacked in a widely reported episode four days after arriving at the C.A.B., never waned. Try to write, he told the staff in a memo, ''in straight-forward quasi-conversational, humane prose -- as though you were talking to or communicating with real people.''
This probably also impressed editors of the American Heritage Dictionary, on whose usage panel Mr. Kahn served for more than 25 years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alfred Kahn meeting with President Jimmy Carter in 1978. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); AIRLINES (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); AIR SERVICE (90%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); CANCER (57%)

COMPANY: CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (61%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: CQB (NYSE) (61%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (61%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (61%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Architecture, Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



774 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths PINTO, MICHAEL ANTHONY

 BODY:
PINTO--Michael Anthony, 73, of Shrewsbury, NJ died December 25 from complications of Alzheimer's disease. Following graduation from college he joined Price, Waterhouse & Co. before becoming Director of International Accounting for The American Institute of CPAs. When the Financial Accounting Standards Board was founded in 1973, he was its first Director of Finance and Administration. Mike and his family lived in Wayne, NJ for 25 years and spent summers in Bay Head, NJ before moving to the Shore Area in 1990. Mike served on the Board of Directors of the Greater Wayne Area Chamber of Commerce the Wayne Area Foundation and Passaic County Economic Development Committee. He lectured frequently on accounting and business issues and served on the faculties of Montclair State University and Fairleigh Dickinson University. Surviving are his wife of 48 years, Terese, their daughter Pamela (Patrick D. Bonner, Jr.), sons: Michael F. (Tracy) and Andrew M. (Frances); seven grandchildren, and one sister, Sister Justine Pinto. For funeral details please visit www.sidun.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ACCOUNTING (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (58%); FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010



775 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: 'Make No Little Plans,' and Chicago Is Paying Heed

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- A plan to redevelop the site of the long-closed U.S. Steel plant on the south lakefront here is ambitious even in a city whose attitude has long been Daniel Burnham's maxim, ''Make no little plans.''
The about 470-acre South Works site juts into Lake Michigan and has dazzling views of downtown nine miles to the north. The master plan, by the architecture firm Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, calls for 13,575 market rate and affordable homes to serve 50,000 new residents, 17.5 million square feet of retail and commercial space, a high school and a marina with 1,500 slips, to be built in phases over the next 30 years. The estimated cost is $4 billion.
The project took a major step forward in September when the city awarded it a $98 million tax increment financing grant that will be used to build infrastructure for the development's first phase. This followed a decision by the city last spring to approve the master plan. 
''The scale of the project is extraordinary,'' said Chris Raguso, who recently left her position as acting commissioner of the city's Department of Community Development to become Mayor Richard M. Daley's deputy chief of staff. ''The fact that anybody in this economy still wants to take a shot at developing a site that is basically a landfill and is basing the development on retail and housing is also extraordinary.''
Over three-quarters of the site is landfill in the form of slag, a byproduct of steel production.
The developers of the project are the U.S. Steel Corporation, based in Pittsburgh, and McCaffery Interests of Chicago.
''South Works is very unique for us,'' said George A. Manos, the president of U.S. Steel Real Estate. ''No. 1 is the duration. It's very long term. No. 2 is it's a true partnership with the City of Chicago to help transform an area of the city.''
Daniel McCaffery, the president of McCaffery Interests, said the project ''boggles the mind. It's the largest undeveloped site in Chicago.''
The development incorporates significant aspects of New Urbanist and sustainable planning guidelines by extending the city's existing street grid and emphasizing smaller blocks, narrower streets and access to mass transit.
''I think this will be the new downtown for the South Side of Chicago,'' said Philip Enquist, a principal at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill.
The plan also includes about 125 acres of new lakefront parkland as well as several smaller parks that are consistent with the architect Daniel Burnham's bold Plan of Chicago of 1909, which called for expanding the city's lakefront park system as part of a comprehensive regional approach to urban planning.
''South Works is the biggest missing piece in terms of completing Burnham's vision'' for the lakefront, said MarySue Barrett, the president of the Metropolitan Planning Council, a nonprofit advocacy group in the Chicago region.
The site is vacant except for a small brick building at the entrance, which will become a marketing center, and several massive masonry walls along an old boat slip that bisects the property. One of the walls would be preserved as a reminder of the area's industrial past.
''I love the walls,'' Mr. Enquist said. ''They look like they came from a different civilization.''
In many ways, they did.
South Works began in the early 1880s as a division of the North Chicago Rolling Mill and was absorbed into U.S. Steel in 1901. For most of the 20th century, South Works was the largest employer on the city's South Side with upward of 30,000 workers.
Over the years, the plant produced the steel responsible for such structures as the Sears (now Willis) Tower, the John Hancock Center and the McCormick Place convention center.
In the 1970s, however, U.S. Steel began consolidating its Chicago-area steel-making activities at its plant in Gary, Ind., and in 1992 South Works closed. The closing left a huge void in the neighborhoods to the west and south, which were largely populated by the families of steelworkers.
''If you walk through the various neighborhoods, it is still possible to talk to residents who either worked there or whose fathers and grandfathers did,'' said Sandi Jackson, the alderwoman for the Seventh Ward, which includes the northern part of the site. ''They have fond memories of South Works and want to see something exciting happen on that site.''
The site required years of environmental remediation and was also subject to several competing visions for its future before the current plan began to take shape in the early 2000s.
Mr. McCaffery, who has developed mixed-use projects around the country, including the Market Common in Arlington, Va., said he planned to break ground on the first phase of the project in late 2012 after the completion of a new road along the western perimeter of the site. The road is an extension of U.S. 41, also known as Lake Shore Drive.
''The first step for this redevelopment was to realign U.S. 41 and make it more accessible for the site,'' Ms. Raguso said. ''We need to bring traffic down there.''
The first phase will include about 1,000 residential units, but the main focus will be 800,000 square feet of retail space. The cost, including the $98 million in new infrastructure, is about $397 million, a not inconsiderable sum in the current economy.
Mr. McCaffery, however, is sanguine about his prospects.
''I don't have to find the money,'' he said. ''I have to find the guys who can find the money. We're going to slice and dice the different phases. We need to engage a range of architects and developers.''
Mr. McCaffery said the decision to focus primarily on retail in the first phase was grounded in demographics. ''We're smelling, tasting and feeling pent-up demand for retail. I'm not going to kid anybody that we're going to have a Tiffany's down here, but it's also not going to be pawn shops,'' he said, referring to the poor economic conditions of much of the area. ''We've already talked to a number of grocery stores, and not one has turned us down in terms of continued interest.''
Paul Vogel, a retail consultant here, said he thought the developers were on the right track. ''There are few places in America today that are understored, but the South Side of Chicago is one of them,'' Mr. Vogel said.
The decision also acknowledges that the city is overwhelmed with unsold condos and housing units left over from the housing bubble
''We currently have years and years of oversupply,'' said James Kinney, the vice president for luxury sales at Baird & Warner real estate.
The long-term forecast may be brighter. A study by the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning predicted that the Chicago area would add 2.4 million residents over the next 30 years.
''The right time to build is when demand meshes with the availability of financing and resources,'' Mr. McCaffery said. ''What we have done is to prepare ourselves for the next right time. And I believe it will be sooner than many people think.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the Square Feet pages last Wednesday about the redevelopment of the South Works steel plant site in Chicago misstated the title of Chris Raguso, a Chicago city official. She is the deputy chief of staff to Mayor Richard M. Daley, not the chief of staff.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rendering of the South Works redevelopment on Lake Michigan
below, Philip Enquist, of the architecture firm Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, near a masonry wall along an old boat slip from the area's industrial past. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY McCAFFERY INTERESTS
 WILLIAM ZBAREN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); LAKES (73%); MAYORS (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); LANDFILLS (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (62%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (85%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (57%)

TICKER: X (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (85%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



776 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: For a Snow-Crippled City, a Morsel of Humble Pie From the Mayor

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
Jim Dwyer is on leave.

 BODY:
On the third day, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg tried on empathy. Sort of.
Our mayor comes with great reluctance to ''I feel your pain'' moments, calling to mind a Park Avenue dowager donning a sack cloth. But there he was Tuesday, standing in one of those emergency management headquarters in Downtown Brooklyn, speaking of sanitation workers laboring 'round the clock, of blood shortages and esprit de corps, and, finally, this: ''The fact remains that many New Yorkers are suffering serious hardships.''
Implicit in this sentence was the acknowledgment -- Hizzoner's first since that howling blizzard descended on the city -- that a snowpack acceptable on a Himalayan trail is quite a bit less so on Marlborough Road in Brooklyn two days after a storm. 
New York mayors love self-mythologizing moments. So former Mayor Edward I. Koch came to national attention for shouting hellos to those trudging across the Brooklyn Bridge during a subway strike. (It was vintage Koch, as he asked everyone how he, rather than they, was doing.) Rudolph W. Giuliani's grim march uptown, his shoulder gray with the dust of the collapsed World Trade Center towers, is engrained still in the national consciousness.
But each man revealed himself most fully in the prosaic. So Mr. Koch quickly returned to lampooning opponents and Mr. Giuliani no sooner claimed his savior's halo than he set to scheming to gain a third term by fiat.
All of which brings us back to Mr. Bloomberg, who is a witty plutocrat and a capable manager, but whose offhand comments reveal more than he might imagine of his worldview. (He once described the city as a ''luxury product,'' not necessarily affordable to all, and, after a sweaty summer blackout left tens of thousands sweltering, suggested that New Yorkers owed a debt of thanks to Consolidated Edison.) So on Monday, after the Blizzard of '10, with his vast metropolis at a near standstill, our mayor affected insouciance.
''The world has not come to an end,'' he said. ''The city is going fine. Broadway shows were full last night. There are lots of tourists here enjoying themselves. I think the message is that the city goes on.''
No doubt this is cheap of me, but as I live in Ditmas Park, Brooklyn, I thought to ask two fellows who were trying to push a Cadillac Escalade out of the snowbank that is Newkirk Avenue -- the smell of burning rubber was not encouraging -- whether they had considered using their free time to take in a Broadway play that night.
''Take in a play?'' asked Steven Pagan, who stopped pushing the Escalade just long enough to flash a deeply pained look. ''What does the mayor suggest? Walking?''
Alas, for local subscribers to Playbill, the Q and B, the two subways running through this stretch of Brooklyn, remain snowbound, unlike, say, the line that runs north from City Hall to the mayor's town house on the East Side.
To be fair (rarely the default position for a true New Yorker), let's acknowledge that it has been a tough spell for the mayor. The snow piled up pell-mell just as an ailing economy and falling tax revenue has forced the Sanitation Department to pare 400 positions over the past few years, with a few hundred more scheduled to go in the next few months.
The mayor chose not to talk on Tuesday of these tough choices, and the trade-off between taxes and service cuts. Instead he talked about primary, secondary and tertiary roads. And he insisted that he felt a bubble or two of rage, or at least deep annoyance.
''I'm angry too,'' he said, rather placidly. ''If your street was plowed, the response was adequate. If your street was not plowed, the response was inadequate.''
As a parry goes, this was unfortunate. A photograph of Mr. Bloomberg's East 79th Street block, a well-appointed, four-lane crosstown thoroughfare, swept clear of snow -- adorned the City Room blog of The New York Times, alongside a photo of a block in Brooklyn, marooned by snow.
One supposes, then, that the mayor views the clean-up response as adequate.
Perhaps the true comfort to be derived from the mayor's performance Tuesday was that in the end, the man remained true to himself. He can do humble but for only so long -- perhaps 20 minutes. His conciliatory summary went well enough. Then reporters took to tossing their impertinent questions and the mayor nearly twitched with the effort to keep his eyes from rolling sarcastically.
Mr. Mayor, a reporter demanded, do you regret the response to the snowstorm? Mr. Bloomberg's look went deadpan.
''You know, I regret everything in this world,'' he said. It's another way of saying ''whatever.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 30, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, the About New York column on Wednesday, about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's reaction to complaints that the city performed poorly in the wake of the blizzard, misstated, in some copies, the day he said, ''The world has not come to an end.'' It was Monday, not Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); THEATER (69%); BLOOD SUPPLY (56%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (53%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



777 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: In China, Car Buyers In a Backup

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hilda Wang contributed reporting.

 BODY:
GUANGZHOU, China -- Li Bo, a 28-year-old lawyer, was one of three friends who put down deposits of 50,000 renminbi, or $7,500, in May at a car dealership to each buy a popular model, the Audi Q5, which sells for the equivalent of $72,000, including taxes, in China.
Mr. Li and one friend are still waiting for their cars; the other paid an additional 38,000 renminbi, or $5,700, to the dealership and got his Q5 within a week, Mr. Li said. 
''We're very upset,'' Mr. Li said. ''There are just too many people ordering.''
One of the uncertainties in the auto industry lies in how much longer Chinese authorities will allow the country's remarkable sales boom to go on and whether China will export a flood of cars if the authorities do clamp down.
Automakers have been struggling for years to keep up with demand in China, as sales have climbed at a pace never seen in a major auto market. The number of cars and light trucks sold in China was one-tenth of that in the United States in 2000. This year, sales in China have been more than 50 percent higher than in the depressed American market.
The result has been traffic jams in the largest Chinese cities, particularly Beijing. And that has elicited an unexpectedly strong response from policy makers.
The Beijing municipal authorities announced last week that they would cap the number of new car registrations at 240,000 a year, just a third of the sales pace this year.
The finance ministry announced separately this week that on Saturday it would restore the sales tax on cars with small-displacement engines to 10 percent, its level before the global downturn. (The tax had been 5 percent in 2009 and 7.5 percent this year; through the downturn, the tax has remained as high as 40 percent for sport utility vehicles and sports cars with the most powerful engines.)
Auto executives and industry analysts say that the market will continue to expand in 2011. But they forecast that the growth rate is likely to fall to 10 percent after averaging 25 percent a year for the last decade.
Slower growth is not all bad for the auto industry. Automakers have been running their factories almost around the clock, paying costly overtime and deferring maintenance. Sudden spurts in sales, like an increase of 34 percent this year, have made it hard for manufacturers to plan how many factories they should build and how quickly.
''Stable growth is much better for us,'' Toshiyuki Shiga, the chief operating officer of Nissan, said at a news conference at the Guangzhou auto show, which closed on Monday.
The biggest question in the car industry is whether more cities will follow Beijing's example and impose restrictions on car registrations. Shanghai has restricted registrations for many years to prevent its ancient streets from becoming overwhelmed. As a result, it has one-third as many registered vehicles as Beijing, even though the populations of the two cities are similar.
That leaves Guangzhou, the sprawling commercial hub of southeastern China, as potentially the country's largest single market in the coming year. With Toyota, Honda and Nissan all operating joint ventures in the city, Guangzhou has nearly caught up with Shanghai as the largest car manufacturing hub in China.
Gridlock is not yet a crippling problem in Guangzhou, or in many smaller cities across the country. City leaders are leery of discouraging car sales.
''At the current time, Guangzhou does not have plans to follow Beijing's new limit on the issuance of car license plates in 2011,'' said Chen Haotian, a vice director of the city's powerful Development and Reform Commission. ''Our city has a very good subway system, which should help to alleviate big traffic jams.''
Guangzhou had severe traffic jams a decade ago, but moved more quickly than Beijing to build a subway network that opens 30 kilometers, or 20 miles, of new lines each year. Traffic flows more smoothly in the city than in Beijing, although Guangzhou still had to impose restrictions on who could drive, based on license plate numbers, during the Asian Games, which just ended.
Beijing represents a little less than 5 percent of the Chinese car market. While sales in Beijing looked as if they would plummet next year, growth in Guangzhou and smaller cities should make it possible for the Chinese car market to continue expanding, analysts said.
''China will still achieve 8 to 10 percent growth in 2011 because most of the incremental car sales are coming from second- and third-tier cities where traffic congestion is not yet a major concern,'' said Michael Dunne, an independent automotive analyst specializing in China.
General Motors executives are also forecasting 10 percent growth over all next year in China. They contend that people across China want to be able to go where they want, when they want, without being confined to public transportation schedules.
''There's strong, latent demand for mobility,'' said Kevin E. Wale, the president of G.M.'s China operations. ''The last few years have been phenomenal years for growth.''
Slower growth in auto sales could also lead the fast-growing Chinese automotive industry to outrun demand. Many experts, and even some government officials, predict that trade tensions will swiftly accompany the eventual emergence of overcapacity in the auto industry.
One worry is that China may start discriminating in favor of domestic automakers and against joint ventures that are producing cars with international brands. China already limits foreign automakers to 50 percent stakes in manufacturing joint ventures.
''If regulatory restrictions on car registrations become widespread, it may tempt the Chinese to game domestic auto sales as they have renewable energy,'' another sector in which China has adopted domestic content rules and other restrictions on multinationals, said Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House climate official who is now a senior adviser at the Bipartisan Policy Center, a research group in Washington.
There are some signs that China may accept that trade tensions are inevitable. Chen Lin, a commerce ministry official, said in a speech at a conference in September -- before China began clamping down on domestic car sales -- that the Chinese car industry would have overcapacity by 2015 and would need to develop large-volume exports by then.
''We think trade frictions are a very natural thing, as long as we are determined to go global,'' he said. ''Trade friction is unavoidable, given the future.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); NEW VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS (77%); SALES TAX (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LAWYERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (91%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (89%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



778 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Primero Hay Que Aprender Espanol,

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
A quiz: If a person who speaks three languages is trilingual, and one who speaks four languages is quadrilingual, what is someone called who speaks no foreign languages at all?
Answer: an American.
Yet these days, we're seeing Americans engaged in a headlong and ambitious rush to learn Chinese -- or, more precisely, to get their kids to learn Chinese. Everywhere I turn, people are asking me the best way for their children to learn Chinese.
Partly that's because Chinese classes have replaced violin classes as the latest in competitive parenting, and partly because my wife and I speak Chinese and I have tortured our three kids by trying to raise them bilingual. Chinese is still far less common in schools or universities than Spanish or French, but it is surging and has the ''cool factor'' behind it -- so public and private schools alike are hastening to add Chinese to the curriculum. 
In New York City alone, about 80 schools offer Chinese, with some programs beginning in kindergarten. And let's be frank: If your child hasn't started Mandarin classes by third grade, he or she will never amount to anything.
Just kidding. In fact, I think the rush to Chinese is missing something closer to home: the paramount importance for our children of learning Spanish.
Look, I'm a fervent believer in more American kids learning Chinese. But the language that will be essential for Americans and has far more day-to-day applications is Spanish. Every child in the United States should learn Spanish, beginning in elementary school; Chinese makes a terrific addition to Spanish, but not a substitute.
Spanish may not be as prestigious as Mandarin, but it's an everyday presence in the United States -- and will become even more so. Hispanics made up 16 percent of America's population in 2009, but that is forecast to surge to 29 percent by 2050, according to estimates by the Pew Research Center.
As the United States increasingly integrates economically with Latin America, Spanish will become more crucial in our lives. More Americans will take vacations in Latin America, do business in Spanish, and eventually move south to retire in countries where the cost of living is far cheaper.
We're already seeing growing numbers of Americans retire in Costa Rica, drawn by weather and lifestyle as well as low costs and good health care. We'll also see more and more little bits of Florida that just happen to be located in Mexico, Panama or Dominican Republic.
Another reason to bet on Spanish is that Latin America is, finally, getting its act together. Of all regions of the world, it was arguably Latin America that rode the recent economic crisis most comfortably. That means that Spanish study does more than facilitate pina coladas on the beach at Cozumel. It'll be a language of business opportunity in the coming decades. We need to turn our competitive minds not only east, but also south.
Moreover, Spanish is easy enough that kids really can emerge from high school with a very useful command of the language that they will retain for life, while Mandarin takes about four times as long to make the same progress. Chinese has negligible grammar -- no singular or plural, no verb conjugations, no pesky masculine and feminine nouns -- but there are thousands of characters to memorize as well as the landmines of any tonal language.
The standard way to ask somebody a question in Chinese is ''qing wen,'' with the ''wen'' in a falling tone. That means roughly: May I ask something? But ask the same ''qing wen'' with the ''wen'' first falling and then rising, and it means roughly: May I have a kiss?
That's probably why trade relations are so strained between our countries. Our negotiators think they're asking questions about tariffs, and the Chinese respond indignantly that kissing would be inappropriate. Leaving both sides confused.
In effect, Chinese is typically a career. Spanish is a practical add-on to your daily life, meshing with whatever career you choose. If you become a mechanic, you'll be able to communicate better with some customers. If you're the president, you'll campaign more effectively in Texas and Florida.
China will probably be the world's largest economy within our children's lifetimes and a monumental force in every dimension of life. Studying Chinese gives you insight into one of the world's great civilizations and creates a wealth of opportunities -- plus, it'll be a godsend if you're ever called upon to pronounce a name like, say, Qin Qiuxue.
So, by all means, have your kids dive into the glamorous world of Mandarin. But don't forget the language that will likely be far more important in their lives: el idioma mas importante es Espanol!
(In case you were wondering, that headline says: First learn Spanish. Then study Chinese.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTILINGUALISM (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CURRICULA (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (71%); PARENTING (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); COST OF LIVING (60%); BEACHES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); PANAMA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



779 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Deficit Hypocrisy

 BODY:
It was not long ago that Republicans succeeded in holding unemployment benefits hostage to a renewal of the high-end Bush-era income tax cuts and -- as a little bonus -- won deep estate tax cuts for America's wealthiest heirs. Those cuts will add nearly $140 billion to the deficit in the near term, while doing far less to prod the economy than if the money had been spent more wisely.
That should have been evidence enough that the Republican Party's one real priority is tax cuts -- despite all the talk about deficit reduction and economic growth. But here's some more: 
On Dec. 22, just before they left town for the holidays, House Republican leaders released new budget rules that they intend to adopt when they assume the majority in January and will set the stage for even more budget-busting tax cuts.
First, some background: Under pay-as-you-go rules adopted by Democratic majorities in the House and Senate in 2007, tax cuts or increases in entitlement spending must be offset by tax increases or entitlement cuts. Entitlements include big health programs like Medicare and Medicaid, for which spending is on autopilot, as well as some other programs for veterans and low-income Americans. (Discretionary spending, which includes defense, is approved separately by Congress annually.)
The new Republican rules will gut pay-as-you-go because they require offsets only for entitlement increases, not for tax cuts. In effect, the new rules will codify the Republican fantasy that tax cuts do not deepen the deficit.
It gets worse. The new rules mandate that entitlement-spending increases be offset by spending cuts only -- and actually bar the House from raising taxes to pay for such spending.
Say, for example, that lawmakers want to bolster child credits for families at or near the minimum wage. One way to help pay for the aid would be to close the tax loophole that lets the nation's wealthiest private equity partners pay tax at close to the lowest rate in the code. That long overdue reform would raise an estimated $25 billion over 10 years, but the new rules will forbid being sensible like that.
Even worse, they direct the leader of the House Budget Committee to ignore several costs when computing the budget impact of future actions, as if the costs are the natural course of politics for which no payment is required.
For example, the cost to make the Bush-era tax cuts permanent would be ignored, as would the fiscal effects of repealing the health reform law. At the same time, the new rules bar the renewal of aid for low-income working families -- extended temporarily in the recent tax-cut deal -- unless it is fully paid for.
House Republicans obviously believe they have a good thing going with voters by sanctifying tax cuts and demonizing spending. That's been their approach for 30 years after all, and it unfailingly rallies their base.
The challenge for President Obama and Democratic lawmakers is not to get drawn into that warped mind-set. They need to present an alternative, including investments -- in energy, technology, infrastructure and education. They also need a plan for long-term deficit reduction that recognizes what the Republicans ignore: Never-ending tax cuts make the deficit worse. Prudent tax increases need to be part of the solution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ESTATE TAX (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); POLITICS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); MEDICAID (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); APPROVALS (69%); MEDICARE (66%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



780 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: African Unity Faces a Test

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

 BODY:
On a continent where coups and stolen elections are far from uncommon, one thing makes the standoff over Ivory Coast exceptional: all the major powers in Africa and overseas agree that Laurent Gbagbo, the strongman leader, must go.
In the month since Mr. Gbagbo lost a long-delayed presidential election, the United Nations, the European Union, the United States, the African Union and the West African regional grouping known as Ecowas -- in a rare example of African and international solidarity -- have all declared that he must step down, slapping a near daily array of sanctions on his government until he does so. West African nations have even threatened to use military force to oust him if he refuses to leave.
But Mr. Gbagbo has been adamant, rebuffing a delegation of African leaders who urged him to give up power this week. That resistance has quickly turned Ivory Coast into a global test case of how -- and maybe whether -- the international community can impose its will on leaders who maintain solid support within their own militaries and refuse to recognize the elections they lose. 
Given how many authoritarian leaders have been tolerated in Africa and elsewhere, the first hurdle in that test -- achieving a broad international consensus -- has been handily cleared. But Mr. Gbagbo's persistent refusal to budge has effectively thrown the onus back on the foreign powers once again, forcing the issue of how far they will go to remove him.
''The question now is what will happen next?'' said Elkanah Odembo, Kenya's ambassador to the United States. ''What will we do next?'' Whatever the strategy, he added, ''it needs to happen fast'' before more ''lives are lost.''
On Wednesday, as the leaders of Ecowas, or the Economic Community of West African States, agreed to further negotiations with Mr. Gbagbo, their defense chiefs were meeting in Nigeria to discuss possible troop deployments, according to a Western diplomat there. Analysts argue that the group's military capacities are limited and hampered by, among other things, the Gbagbo government's veiled threats to retaliate against citizens of countries that intervene against Ivory Coast, where there is a large immigrant population.
To back down now would entail a significant loss of credibility for the international institutions and governments pressing Mr. Gbagbo, analysts contend. But the possibility of force has seemed equally unappealing to some African diplomats, particularly because Ivory Coast has already endured a civil war and there is little appetite for fueling another one.
When disputed elections spilled into violence in Kenya and Zimbabwe in recent years, many nations embraced political compromises that joined rivals into tense and sometimes unwieldy power-sharing agreements.
In this case, many African leaders themselves have said power sharing is off the table, rejecting the notion that Mr. Gbagbo should have a significant role in the government. At least five more elections are in the offing in the coming year in West Africa alone, and few want to enshrine a solution that allows recalcitrant leaders to hold onto power beyond their legitimate terms.
''There's a strong sense here that if they let another wishy-washy power-sharing arrangement emerge in Cote d'Ivoire, it will create a very bad precedent,'' said the Western diplomat in Abuja, Nigeria, where Ecowas is based, who was not authorized to discuss the matter. ''The stakes here are unusually high. Either Gbagbo loses everything, or it will be a tremendous loss of face for Ecowas.''
It is unclear whether Mr. Gbagbo can play for time through negotiations and somehow split the coalition of nations urging him to leave, or whether the weight of sanctions and threat of military force will compel him to surrender.
So far, there is no sign of the latter. Just the opposite, Mr. Gbagbo has deployed his security forces in opposition neighborhoods, beating and killing dozens in nighttime raids, according to the United Nations.
He has also sent around his minister of youth, Charles Ble Goude, known as the ''General of the Streets,'' to whip up popular fervor for an assault on the headquarters of his main rival, Alassane Ouattara, who has been declared the winner of the elections by the scores of countries of the United Nations General Assembly. On Wednesday, Mr. Ble Goude urged a cheering crowd to ''liberate'' the hotel where Mr. Ouattara is holed up, protected by peacekeepers.
Mr. Gbagbo proclaimed last week on state television that the ''international community has declared war'' on Ivory Coast, and that he was merely upholding the country's Constitution against intruders, including the United Nations. On Tuesday a United Nations convoy was attacked by machete-wielding partisans in a pro-Gbagbo neighborhood, and a Bangladeshi soldier was injured.
As long as Mr. Gbagbo commands the loyalty of the army, he will be difficult to dislodge, analysts say. A potential blow to his hold on power came last week when African leaders blocked his access to money at the regional West African bank, possibly limiting his ability to pay his soldiers. But the impact of even that is uncertain, since the move did not put all state funds in Ivory Coast -- the world's biggest cocoa exporter -- beyond the reach of Mr. Gbagbo's entourage.
''They think they're Saudi Arabia, but they're not; they have an obsession with autarky,'' said Rinaldo Depagne, an International Crisis Group analyst who has studied Ivory Coast closely, describing the Gbagbo government's belief in economic self-sufficiency.
''They say, 'We're rich.' They are ultranationalists.''
Meanwhile, the principal pressure point on Mr. Gbagbo, Ecowas, is marching in new and uncertain territory. Although it has deployed military force in the past -- in conflicts in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea-Bissau -- its previous interventions have been ''geared towards ending civil wars,'' not removing entrenched leaders, wrote Gilles Yabi, the new director of the International Crisis Group's West Africa project, in a recent paper.
Mr. Gbagbo's control over fiercely loyal elite units like the Republican Guard, a force of about 1,000 to 1,500 soldiers that has been central in the current wave of repression against opponents, would make him a tough match militarily.
''I really have trouble seeing how this would work,'' Mr. Yabi said in an interview from Dakar, Senegal, on Wednesday. ''There is no precedent.''
The Western diplomat in Abuja, who has been following the Ecowas deliberations closely, said: ''The Ecowas standby force is something that exists only on paper. They would not be able to survive any kind of fight with Gbagbo's forces.''
And then there is the question of stomach for the fight. ''Ecowas has no desire for an offensive military operation,'' Mr. Yabi said Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Laurent Gbagbo of Ivory Coast, center, who lost an election last month but refuses to step down, met Tuesday with a group of West African leaders trying to persuade him to yield. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIA KAMBOU/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COUPS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); AFRICAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTERN AFRICA (97%); COTE D'IVOIRE (97%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); KENYA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



781 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: The Can't-Do Nation

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN. 
Timothy Egan is a columnist for nytimes.com. Gail Collins is off today.

 BODY:
When does football become more than a sporting event? It's not when the president comments on the redemption of a player who served prison time for a vicious felony. That's a slow news week. Nor is it when a former Super Bowl quarterback crudely hits on a young woman not his wife or girlfriend. That's an even slower news week.
But when a game that was supposed to be played in a face-lacerating blizzard by bare-armed behemoths is postponed because of the weather, then it's an affront to national character. 
''My biggest beef is that this is part of what's happened in this country,'' said Ed Rendell, the outgoing governor of Pennsylvania. ''We've become a nation of wusses. The Chinese are kicking our butts in everything.''
A miserable trade balance. Loss of manly essence. Decline of the republic. All of this because the game between the Philadelphia Eagles at their adequate outdoor stadium and the visiting Minnesota Vikings was moved when the big snowstorm hammered the East Coast. Rendell was just getting warmed up.
''If this was China, do you think the Chinese would have called off the game? People would have been marching down to the stadium, they would have walked and they would have been doing calculus on the way down.''
Calculus! Don't those Chinese even pause for a bratwurst or a sip of beer at pregame revelries? And what kind of a tailgate party would that be?
Rendell's comments in a radio interview, coming at a time when sloth is the seasonal mode and decline talk is a subtext of ragged economic blues, set off a lot of people.
The most articulate of scolds can warn about how far behind the rest of the world our students are falling, about the frightening implications of a three-fold rise in child obesity, about the importance of a work ethic coupled with American creativity -- and the country is barely stirred.
But let someone suggest that a football game can't be played in the snow, and you've got real trouble.
It's bad enough that a winter storm can ruin a politician. Witness the hit to his reputation that Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey took for leaving his state to misery while he vacationed in Disney World. Or the painful sight of Mayor Michael Bloomberg getting sarcastic -- ''I regret everything in the world,'' he snapped -- in response to criticism.
Now snow is weighing down a game that is already far too burdened with larger implications. We don't walk 10 miles to school in a blizzard anymore, but we do put on face paint and display bare torsos while watching appliance-sized men who make more in a week than most Americans earn in a year bash each other. It's diverting, and -- aside from a few atrocious losses by my hometown Seahawks, the Barney Fifes of football -- mostly rewarding.
What's truly wimpy is telling everyone to go to the mall and shop while putting two wars on the credit card and committing countless lives to mortal danger. This advice by then-President George W. Bush gave the majority of the country no reason to sacrifice -- just chant ''U.S.A.!'' and wave some flags.
What's wimpy is Sarah Palin equating Nanny State intolerance with Michelle Obama's campaign to get children to exercise more and improve their diets. Eat smores, Palin implored, as a patriotic act of defiance to Big Government. This assertion is an affront to every genuine act of political disobedience, let alone the epidemic of childhood obesity.
Rendell is a gregarious, likable politician, and I'd hate to see him muzzled. But he's wrong to equate one delayed football game with the collapse of American values. For that matter, can we just liberate football as a stand-in for anything other than football?
Sure, the suits who run the league are killjoys for moving the Sunday night contest. Anyone who's played pickup football in the snow knows the lasting thrill of catching a pass between snowflakes. And some of the game's greatest contests -- the Ice Bowl in Green Bay, the Snow Bowl in New England -- would be nothing without the weather.
But a nation of wusses? Sorry, governor. Talk to the clerk in Queens who walked five miles in the snow to his job at Sears because his bus never came. Or the elderly people, shivering without power, forced to cut pills in half because they couldn't get out and refill their life-saving prescriptions. Or the hundred or so commuters who endured a night of chill and fear when their subway train was stranded in the blizzard. ''No panic, no yelling, just understanding,'' one fellow sufferer said of the ordeal.
What the epic winter storm at year's end showed was the overlooked and the routine: a nation of quiet heroes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FELONIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (74%); ATHLETES (73%); WEATHER (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); ETHICS (62%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (53%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (50%); OBESITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (55%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (55%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (73%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



782 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Storm Cost Retailers $1 Billion, Report Says

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD; Christopher Maag contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The snowstorm that swept through the Northeast kept shoppers home on Sunday and Monday and delayed about $1 billion in postholiday spending, according to a report released Wednesday. Still, retailers will probably reclaim much of that amount.
''Just like they played football on Tuesday night,'' said Bill Martin, the founder of ShopperTrak, referring to the Eagles-Vikings game that was rescheduled from Sunday because of the snow, ''shoppers will be back in the stores Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.''
ShopperTrak, which estimates foot traffic and retail sales, said in a report on Wednesday that consumers around the country spent about $10 billion on retail goods on Sunday and Monday but that an additional $1 billion was lost because of the snowstorm that struck much of the East Coast. 
In regions other than the East Coast, visits to retailers continued to rise. In the Midwest, South and West, foot traffic to retailers rose 38.6 percent on Sunday compared with Sunday a year earlier, which was on Dec. 27. In the Northeast, foot traffic declined 6.1 percent.
Many of the after-Christmas sales are driven by people who want to exchange or return gifts, or use up gift cards, and stores often put in new merchandise or special discounts to get them to spend extra while they are in the store.
In the Northeast, that demand ''will be pent up for a couple days until they dig out, so we probably can anticipate some reasonable to good numbers on Thursday and Friday of this week,'' Mr. Martin said.
Up until Christmas Eve, the holiday shopping season was the best since before the recession. Retail sales (including gasoline, restaurants and food) rose 5.5 percent for the 50 days through Dec. 24 compared with the same period last year, according to MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, which tracks overall spending. And in some categories, like apparel, spending was above where it was in 2007, before the economic crisis hit.
ShopperTrak reported Wednesday that retail sales for Christmas week dropped 4.1 percent compared with a year ago, while foot traffic fell 6.8 percent.
Almost all of that decline, however, was the result of a calendar shift, Mr. Martin said. In its counting, ShopperTrak starts each week on a Sunday. Last year, Dec. 26 was included in the Christmas week numbers as it fell on a Saturday; this year, it was on a Sunday, so it was pushed into the next week's numbers. Last year, Dec. 26 was the second-highest-performing sales day of the holiday season, which gave all of Christmas week a boost.
Speaking of this year's Christmas-week sales, Mr. Martin said, ''They're sort of expected to be soft, and they're not terribly soft.''
The main challenge for retailers with snowstorm-related delays in shopping is that many report sales by the calendar month, and analysts follow those closely. If some shoppers do not get to stores until January, that will affect the December sales numbers, though it will probably have little impact on sales over all.
A snowstorm before Christmas can mean real problems for retail sales, but one after Christmas is not as terrible, said Joel Bines, a director in the global retail practice at the consulting firm AlixPartners.
''The folks that were going to go and redeem their gift cards or return their gifts'' will do it later in the week, he said. ''The weather has some impact, but it's marginal.''
''The good thing about Dec. 26 and beyond is there isn't an artificial deadline looming over anyone,'' Mr. Bines said.
On Sunday in Columbus, Ohio, which was not paralyzed by the storm, Lisa Watford, 46, went to Polaris Fashion Place so her daughters could return several gifts.
''Oh, I bought them a lot of stuff,'' Ms. Watford said. ''I thought they'd love it all. I thought I was very tuned in. And they didn't like any of it. So we're here returning most of it.''
''Well, it's not my fault that the sweatpants were awkward,'' a daughter, Jordan, 16, said. ''They just didn't fit right.''
The three had already gone to Macy's, Buckle and Forever 21 to exchange gifts. Now, at American Eagle Outfitters, Jordan had picked out a jean skirt that was more than half off and a long-sleeve T-shirt. Her sister Taylor, 14, was giggling by the jeans racks as they browsed.
''Well, at least they're having fun,'' Ms. Watford said. ''That makes two out of the three of us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers were back on Tuesday at the Westfield Garden State Plaza in Paramus, N.J., after a snowstorm on Sunday and Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIO CORTEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



783 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Religion, and the Freedom of the Open Mind

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The Arduous Community'' (column, Dec. 21), David Brooks offers an eloquent appreciation of Erica Brown, a Jewish educator.
One comment, though, should not go unchallenged. He says she ''offers a path out of the tyranny of the perpetually open mind by presenting authoritative traditions and teachings.'' This implies that religious traditions are different from any other socially constructed system, like economics or politics. 
One of the incontrovertible insights of modernity is that like any other aspect of culture, religions are humanly constructed and historically developed. Each religion is an anthology of opinion and insight gathered under the name of those who identify with it.
Within the Jewish tradition, for example, which voice is ''authoritative''? The voice of philosophical rationalism or of kabbalistic mysticism? Gendered differentiation of religious roles or egalitarian engagement?
To suggest that an ''open mind'' is a symbol of tyranny is a peculiar inversion. Orthodox religious systems that insist on one truth have imposed or tried to impose tyranny on those for whom religious affirmation and an open mind are complementary and nonnegotiable.
As Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan, the founder of Reconstructionist Judaism, once quipped, ''The ancient authorities are entitled to a vote -- but not to a veto.''
(Rabbi) Richard Hirsh Wyncote, Pa., Dec. 21, 2010
To the Editor:
While Erica Brown certainly sounds like a wonderful teacher, there is something odd about celebrating what amounts to the reinvention of the wheel.
Religious communities have performed this kind of adult education for centuries. And, yes, teachings against original sin and idolatry have also been there all along.
David Brooks says ''there are few avenues to bring those teachers into contact with mature and hungry minds.'' Really? Last time I looked there were plenty of churches and synagogues. Come on in, the teaching is good.
(Rev.)
Mitchell Brown Wilmette, Ill., Dec. 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (76%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



784 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Friday: New Year's Eve

 BODY:
NEW YORK
GOVERNMENT OFFICES Closed.
POST OFFICES Most branches will close at 1 p.m. Signs will be posted at each branch, detailing hours. Window service will run until 5 p.m. at the main post office, Eighth Avenue at 32nd Street. Self-service kiosks will be available. 
BANKS Option to close.
PARKING Alternate side parking is suspended.
SANITATION No pickups, street cleaning or recycling.
SCHOOLS Closed.
FINANCIAL MARKETS Regular hours.
TRANSPORTATION New York City subways and buses will operate on a Saturday schedule. Metro-North Railroad trains will operate on a special Saturday schedule with extra trains available. Long Island Rail Road trains will operate on a regular schedule and add extra trains.
NEW JERSEY
GOVERNMENT OFFICES Federal and state offices are closed.
POST OFFICES Most offices will be closing at noon. Select offices will remain open until 5 p.m.
BANKS Option to close.
SCHOOLS Closed.
TRANSPORTATION New Jersey Transit trains will operate on a weekday schedule on all lines. Bus schedules vary by route; riders can check schedules at njtransit.com. PATH trains will operate on a regular weekday schedule, with additional evening trains added as necessary for riders heading to and from New Year's Eve festivities.
CONNECTICUT
GOVERNMENT OFFICES Federal and state offices will be closed. Unemployment call centers will be open.
POST OFFICES Most offices will close by noon.
BANKS Option to close.
SCHOOLS Closed.
TRANSPORTATION Metro-North trains will operate on a special weekend schedule.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRAINS (76%); CALL CENTERS (67%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



785 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Buy Movie Tickets, but They Pay More

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
As the last few days of 2010 play out, it appears that the movie box office will be down for the year, but not by much. 
Paul Dergarabedian, the box-office analyst for Hollywood.com, estimates that total ticket sales for 2010 will weigh in at $10.556 billion, just under the $10.6 billion posted last year, which was a record. The revenue number, as has been usual in recent years, was helped along by ticket price inflation.
Attendance, Mr. Dergarabedian estimates, fell 5.36 percent from last year. The big hit was ''Toy Story 3,'' which has posted about $415 million in ticket sales since its release by Disney in June.
Meanwhile, the number of films released in the United States has continued to fall. As of Wednesday, Boxofficemojo.com had tracked 517 releases, down from a recent peak of 631 in 2007.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DISNEY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (94%); FILM (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



786 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Sets Targets to Slash Carbon Emissions

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
Massachusetts officials on Wednesday announced a plan to curb heat-trapping gases emitted by homes, cars and businesses in the state by 25 percent below 1990 levels over the next decade. 
The targets set by the plan are the highest allowed under climate legislation passed by the state in 2008 and among the most stringent in the nation, placing Massachusetts in the company of California, New Mexico and other states that have taken strong action to address global warming.
Unlike California's plan, however, which sets industry-by-industry regulations to achieve its mandated cutbacks, the Massachusetts plan relies largely on existing programs, like renewable-energy mandates, energy-efficiency standards for building construction and curbs in the electricity sector that are already in place under a multistate agreement known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative.
In announcing the new measure, Ian A. Bowles, the state's secretary of energy and environmental affairs, said most of the planned emissions cuts would result in net gains in jobs statewide. The plan, he added, shows that a state can change its energy profile with minimal economic impact and ''puts the lie to the Chicken Little-oriented debate on the national scene'' that equates reduction of emissions with job loss and economic disruption.
''People who have studied this find you can get your first 20-30 percent of greenhouse-gas cuts without making significant economic trade-offs,'' he said.
Debra Boronski, president of the Massachusetts Chamber of Business and Industry, said she was not so sure of Mr. Bowles's contention, particularly when it came to switching from conventional fuels -- like the natural gas that powers much of the state's electricity grid -- to renewable sources of energy like wind and solar power.
''Our biggest concern -- even though it is right to conserve energy -- is that alternative resources have to be cost-effective,'' Ms. Boronski said, adding, ''As far as we know, in Massachusetts, research has shown that alternative energy is more expensive.''
Data released by state officials on Wednesday indicate that more than one-third of the total greenhouse-gas emissions in Massachusetts -- 33 million metric tons in 2007 -- come from the transportation sector. As part of the plan, Mr. Bowles said, the state will start a pilot program giving drivers an incentive to cut back on unnecessary travel by linking car-insurance premiums to miles driven -- a ''Pay As You Drive'' program.
Congress has authorized $15 million in federal Transportation Department grants for such programs, money that could be used to ensure that lower-income drivers do not suffer an unequal burden.
Massachusetts is one of 10 states already participating in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a cap-and-trade system for electric utilities. Under the plan, some emissions cuts are also expected to come if Massachusetts copies the stricter fuel efficiency standards it assumes that California will adopt.
Other possible routes to achieving the mandated cuts, Mr. Bowles said, include importing more hydropowered electricity from Quebec and improving the efficiency of home heating by finding economic incentives for homeowners to replace oil-fueled furnaces with new, more efficient models.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ian A. Bowles, the Massachusetts secretary of energy and environmental affairs, at a meeting in Boston in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHITOSE SUZUKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); WIND ENERGY (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (74%); SOLAR ENERGY (74%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); DISMISSALS (67%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



787 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: In the New Economy, Use New Strategies To Hire Law Firms

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN

 BODY:
The recession has brought changes to the business of law, including lower fees and less costly billing arrangements, say industry reports and managing partners in firms large and small. And that can mean advantages for small-business owners, provided they know how to find a law firm that suits their needs and they know the right questions to ask.
Some entrepreneurs who have been around a while offer pointers. Juliet Huck is founder of the Huck Group, a 10-employee consulting company that is based in Los Angeles and creates graphic presentations to help participants in litigation tell their stories in court.
Ms. Huck said that she has found ways to make less costly billing arrangements -- even when she hasn't found lower fees. ''A large firm might assign me a junior associate at a lower billing rate,'' she said, ''and that is all right because I have access to the firm's expertise when I need it for difficult questions.'' 
Ms. Huck engages different lawyers for specific issues, like employment law or intellectual property protection, and finds them by referral. Because she runs a courtroom-based business, this is a relatively easy task for her, but she is careful to follow up. ''I ask a lot of questions about work an attorney has done in a particular field,'' she said.
Stephen Marsh, founder and chief executive of SmarshInc., agrees. ''When choosing a law firm,'' he said, ''I would ensure that the firm has many other clients in your field, your size and much larger. You'll also want to know the types of law they have expertise in. And if you are considering the possibility of merger and acquisition transactions in the future, make sure the firm has a significant amount of transactional experience.''
Founded in 2001 in Portland, Ore., Smarsh archives e-mail and file-transmission information to help corporations comply with financial regulations. As those regulations have increased, he said, Smarsh has grown to 70 employees and about $14 million in annual revenue.
Based on his experience, Mr. Marsh stresses two points: ''Make sure the attorneys understand your business -- who your customers are, what your biggest areas of risk are, and so on.'' And when it comes to billing arrangements, Mr. Marsh recommends paying by the hour rather than by retainer: ''I prefer the simple billable hours model. It keeps legal expenses predictable and allows us to use as much legal assistance as we need, when we need it.''
From the other side of the equation, Brian L. Davidoff, managing director of Rutter Hobbs & Davidoff, a 30-lawyer firm that is based in Los Angeles and that provides legal services to clients like Smarsh Inc., offers similar advice. When small businesses are choosing a firm, he said, he encourages them to ask around.
''It is best to use a referral from your accountant or other business owners,'' said Mr. Davidoff. ''Another way is to use an attorney network, such as Primerus, which is a network for small law firms that are highly rated by Martindale-Hubbell, an organization that rates attorneys.''
But keep in mind, Mr. Davidoff stressed, that while the quality of the firm is important, you are really hiring an individual lawyer. ''Make sure that the chemistry works,'' he said. ''Ask about the attorney's experience and the law firm's prior cases in that area of law. Ask for an estimate of what the costs are likely to be.''
Establishing that chemistry can be tricky. Both new and ancient trends are at work in relations between small businesses and the legal profession, said Sanford I. Millar, a Los Angeles tax lawyer. One issue, he said, is a traditional distrust of lawyers shared by many entrepreneurs: ''They see the lawyer as saying no to daring business moves. The truth is, lawyers are there to advise on what has been possible and not been possible in law. No business owner wants to be ignorant on that score.''
Case in point: Marc Madnick, who founded Final Draft, a software service for screenwriters in 1991, was referred to a law firm by his accountant. Mr. Madnick, a native New Yorker who had moved west to pursue screenwriting, was wary.
In the East, he said, many business people assume lawyers are out to get them. Mr. Madnick said that he and Joel Weinstein, the Rutter Hobbs lawyer on the Final Draft account, ''discuss beforehand what a legal proceeding is likely to cost. Will it be $2,000 or $5,000? So we set a limit.''
Final Draft, he said, is now a company with 40 employees and close to $10 million in sales. In one instance, Mr. Madnick recalled, ''Joel advised me not to proceed with an acquisition. It was good advice and saved the firm a lot of money.''
Last August, in a further sign of how the market is evolving, Concord Law School of Kaplan University, began offering an online degree program in small-business practice. The initial courses focus on commercial real estate and employee benefits.
Over the two-year degree course, said M. Ellen Murphy, director of the program, ''we will teach about succession issues in family businesses and about taxation and protecting intellectual property.'' The goal, Ms. Murphy said, is to help lawyers offer small businesses the services they really need at a price they can afford.
Law firms can also reduce their fees by reducing the overhead costs that they pass on to small-business clients. For example, Steven M. Weinberg, head of the Weinberg Legal Group, a small firm in Malibu, Calif., that represents Ms. Huck's company among others, is now forming a ''virtual'' law firm to be named Trusted Legal Counsel. His idea is that a network of independent lawyers can be called on for specific questions on taxation or patent protection and so on.
''We can offer low overhead through flat rates and project fees that are less expensive,'' Mr. Weinberg said, ''and experienced lawyers are available as larger firms downsize in the recession.''
Mr. Weinberg said he heard about the idea for Trusted Legal Counsel from a client of his firm, Marcia Wieder, who in 1990 founded Dream University, a San Francisco-based company that offers career counseling, trains speakers and conducts motivational events for corporations.
''My first encounter with legal services was in protecting my brand, the name Dream University,'' Ms. Wieder said. She found that another company calling itself University of Dreams had started up. So she hired Weinberg Legal Group, she said, ''because it was obvious that an authoritative voice needed to contact the user. And it worked. The other company changed its name.''
Dream University, meanwhile, has trained 1,000 motivational coaches, has $1.5 million in revenue but still has only two full-time employees along with Ms. Wieder. That decentralized structure helped give her the idea for Trusted Legal Counsel, she said. ''I needed access to a trusted source and only to pay for it when I use it, like weekends and so forth. I use my attorney also to brainstorm ideas.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Juliet Huck's company creates graphic presentations to help participants in litigation tell their stories in court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAW PRACTICE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE RATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); LITIGATION (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (70%); MERGERS (68%); NEW ECONOMY (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%)

COMPANY: RUTTER HOBBS & DAVIDOFF INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



788 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Oil's Future Defies Easy Calculation

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER SWANN

 BODY:
Oil bulls are once again kicking up dust. The intensifying struggle to lift output, they say, will collide with the insatiable thirst of an expanding Asia to push oil above $100 a barrel. In fact, the cost of crude may be held down as demand growth is cut by half as producers from Russia to Africa via Brazil ramp up supply.
Recent years have been humbling for oil bulls. In 2008, Goldman Sachs was arguing that crude would have risen to $150 to $200 a barrel by now. Since then the notion of peak oil on which many such forecasts were based has taken a battering. Rather than bumping up against the limits of available oil, as theorists expected, drillers have uncovered an embarrassment of mineral riches. And this happened just as hunger for oil slackened amid a deepening global recession. 
Despite this setback, oil optimists, like Goldman's analysts, have recovered something of their former swagger. Surging demand from growing Asian economies, they argue, will outpace even the ingenuity of oil producers, forcing crude prices inexorably higher. Again there are reasons to be skeptical of such prognostications.
For a start, the unused pumping power of the OPEC cartel still stands at 5.4 million barrels a day. That compares with a spare capacity of around one million barrels when oil hit its $147 apex in July 2008. So it would take several years of heavy demand growth to chip away at the cartel's spare capacity. And that's without counting an impressive range of oil industry investments that are coming on.
A steady upswing in oil prices since 2004 rekindled exploration spending, and advances of drilling technology have also helped. Shrugging aside BP's deepwater disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, oil majors are stepping up production in once-inaccessible deposits off the coasts of Ghana and Brazil.
And improving recovery techniques are also prolonging the life of aging oil wells. This is particularly evident in the United States where a seemingly inexorable slide in production, stemming back to the 1970s, appears to have been arrested. Some of the same techniques that have been rejuvenating geriatric wells -- including hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling -- have brought a bountiful supply of oil within reach in the Bakken shale of North Dakota.
Meanwhile, bumper gas finds have spewed out precious fluids. Output of these light natural gas liquids could climb by 700,000 barrels a day next year, according to Credit Suisse, up from a rise of 200,000 in 2009. Even OPEC members can pump these freely since they are not counted as part of their quotas. This unexpected treasure trove of easily refined oil is helping relieve pressure on traditional crude.
Penny-pinching motorists across the globe can also look to Iraq for relief. Assuming the political situation continues to improve, output should rise strongly from 2011. And non-OPEC crude supply is expected to climb by 800,000 barrels a day. Add all these extra sources up and global oil output could rise by around 1.6 million barrels a year, according to Credit Suisse.
Bulls will counter that even these new sources will not match demand. But here, too, their arguments look premature. True, demand rose by a monumental 2.3 million barrels a day in 2010. A repeat of this would indeed eat into OPEC spare capacity. This, however, looks unlikely.
The International Energy Agency is braced for a more manageable increment of 1.2 million barrels a day in 2011. Rich countries even look likely to trim 300,000 barrels a day from their energy diet.
This will offset three-quarters of the increase in demand from China -- which though growing fast, still only burns 11 percent of the world's oil. And the agency's cautious demand estimates could fall if the brewing financial crisis on Europe's periphery eats into economic growth.
Predicting the price of oil requires the kind of omniscience that even mighty Goldman hasn't mustered. It involves accurately predicting global growth and output in dozens of countries, not to mention changes in technology, tax and regulatory policy as well as fickle market sentiment.
Still, there are few signs of the bottlenecks that pushed oil through the roof in the summer of 2008. Consumers appear generously well supplied as the world's oilmen look to be keeping up with the rising appetite for crude.CHRISTOPHER SWANN
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Drillers have continued to uncover mineral riches using advanced techinques. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HASAN JAMALI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CARTELS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (79%); NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); ARRESTS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) BRAZIL (92%); AFRICA (90%); ASIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); GHANA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



789 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Shanghai Schools' Approach Pushes Students to Top of Tests

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Bao Beibei contributed research.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- In Li Zhen's ninth-grade mathematics class here last week, the morning drill was geometry. Students at the middle school affiliated with Jing'An Teachers' College were asked to explain the relative size of geometric shapes by using Euclid's theorem of parallelograms.
''Who in this class can tell me how to demonstrate two lines are parallel without using a proportional segment?'' Ms. Li called out to about 40 students seated in a cramped classroom. 
One by one, a series of students at this medium-size public school raised their hands. When Ms. Li called on them, they each stood politely by their desks and usually answered correctly. They returned to their seats only when she told them to sit down.
Educators say this disciplined approach helps explain the announcement this month that 5,100 15-year-olds in Shanghai outperformed students from about 65 countries on an international standardized test that measured math, science and reading competency.
American students came in between 15th and 31st place in the three categories. France and Britain also fared poorly.
Experts said comparing scores from countries and cities of different sizes is complicated. They also said that the Shanghai scores were not representative of China, since this fast-growing city of 20 million is relatively affluent. Still, they were impressed by the high scores from students in Shanghai.
The results were seen as another sign of China's growing competitiveness. The United States rankings are a ''wake-up call,'' said Arne Duncan, the secretary of education.
Although it was the first time China had taken part in the test, which was administered by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, based in Paris, the results bolstered this country's reputation for producing students with strong math and science skills.
Many educators were also surprised by the city's strong reading scores, which measured students' proficiency in their native Chinese.
The Shanghai students performed well, experts say, for the same reason students from other parts of Asia -- including South Korea, Singapore and Hong Kong -- do: Their education systems are steeped in discipline, rote learning and obsessive test preparation.
Public school students in Shanghai often remain at school until 4 p.m., watch very little television and are restricted by Chinese law from working before the age of 16.
''Very rarely do children in other countries receive academic training as intensive as our children do,'' said Sun Baohong, an authority on education at the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences. ''So if the test is on math and science, there's no doubt Chinese students will win the competition.''
But many educators say China's strength in education is also a weakness. The nation's education system is too test-oriented, schools here stifle creativity and parental pressures often deprive children of the joys of childhood, they say.
''These are two sides of the same coin: Chinese schools are very good at preparing their students for standardized tests,'' Jiang Xueqin, a deputy principal at Peking University High School in Beijing, wrote in an opinion article published in The Wall Street Journal shortly after the test results were announced. ''For that reason, they fail to prepare them for higher education and the knowledge economy.''
In an interview, Mr. Jiang said Chinese schools emphasized testing too much, and produced students who lacked curiosity and the ability to think critically or independently.
''It creates very narrow-minded students,'' he said. ''But what China needs now is entrepreneurs and innovators.''
This is a common complaint in China. Educators say an emphasis on standardized tests is partly to blame for the shortage of innovative start-ups in China. And executives at global companies operating here say they have difficulty finding middle managers who can think creatively and solve problems.
In many ways, the system is a reflection of China's Confucianist past. Children are expected to honor and respect their parents and teachers.
''Discipline is rarely a problem,'' said Ding Yi, vice principal at the middle school affiliated with Jing'An Teachers' College. ''The biggest challenge is a student who chronically fails to do his homework.''
While the quality of schools varies greatly in China (rural schools often lack sufficient money, and dropout rates can be high), schools in major cities typically produce students with strong math and science skills.
Shanghai is believed to have the nation's best school system, and many students here gain admission to America's most selective colleges and universities.
In Shanghai, teachers are required to have a teaching certificate and to undergo a minimum of 240 hours of training; higher-level teachers can be required to have up to 540 hours of training. There is a system of incentives and merit pay, just like the systems in some parts of the United States.
''Within a teacher's salary package, 70 percent is basic salary,'' said Xiong Bingqi, a professor of education at Shanghai Jiaotong University. ''The other 30 percent is called performance salary.''
Still, teacher salaries are modest, about $750 a month before bonuses and allowances -- far less than what accountants, lawyers or other professionals earn.
While Shanghai schools are renowned for their test preparation skills, administrators here are trying to broaden the curriculums and extend more freedom to local districts. The Jing'An school, one of about 150 schools in Shanghai that took part in the international test, was created 12 years ago to raise standards in an area known for failing schools.
The principal, Zhang Renli, created an experimental school that put less emphasis on math and allows children more free time to play and experiment. The school holds a weekly talent show, for example.
The five-story school building, which houses Grades eight and nine in a central district of Shanghai, is rather nondescript. Students wear rumpled school uniforms, classrooms are crowded and lunch is bused in every afternoon. But the school, which operates from 8:20 a.m. to 4 p.m. on most days, is considered one of the city's best middle schools.
In Shanghai, most students begin studying English in first grade. Many middle school students attend extra-credit courses after school or on Saturdays. A student at Jing'An, Zhou Han, 14, said she entered writing and speech-making competitions and studied the erhu, a Chinese classical instrument. She also has a math tutor.
''I'm not really good at math,'' she said. ''At first, my parents wanted me to take it, but now I want to do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Discipline issues are rare at the middle school linked to the Jing'An Teachers' College in Shanghai. The city is thought to have China's best schools. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); GEOMETRY (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (98%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) EAST CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



790 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM NEW DELHI; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Asia's Giants Face Off: India Digs In Its Heels as China Flexes Its Muscles

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- It has been the season of geopolitical hugs in India -- with one noticeable exception. One after the other, the leaders of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council have descended on India, accompanied by delegations of business leaders, seeking closer ties with this rising South Asian giant. The Indian media, basking in the high-level attention, have nicknamed them the ''P-5.''
Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain got a warm reception last summer. Then President Obama wowed a skeptical Indian establishment during his November visit. President Nicolas Sarkozy of France signed nuclear deals in early December, while President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia departed last week with a fistful of defense contracts after winning praise for Moscow as a ''special partner.''
The exception to the cheery mood was the mid-December visit of Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China. Mr. Wen did secure business deals, announce new trade goals and offer reassurances of friendly Chinese intentions. But the trip also underscored that many points of tension between the Asian giants -- trade imbalances, their disputed border and the status of Kashmir -- are growing worse. And the Indian foreign policy establishment, once reluctant to challenge China, is taking a harder line. 
''The Wen visit has widened the gap publicly between India and China,'' said Ranjit Gupta, a retired Indian diplomat and one of many vocal analysts pushing a more hawkish line toward China. ''And it represents for the first time a greater realism in the Indian establishment's approach to China.''
India aspires to membership on the United Nations Security Council, and China is now the only permanent member nation that has not explicitly endorsed such a move. But what has rattled Indian leaders even more is their contention that China is being deliberately provocative in Kashmir as it grows closer to Pakistan, China's longtime ally and India's nemesis. China has also been expanding its diplomatic and economic influence around South Asia, stepping up its involvement in the affairs of Sri Lanka, Nepal and the Maldives.
Mr. Wen's visit was supposed to help address those tensions at a time when India is starting to draw closer to the United States. Among Chinese leaders, Mr. Wen is perceived as a friend of India, and his 2005 visit was regarded as a breakthrough after he and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh agreed on a broad framework to address the border dispute.
For decades since fighting a brief border war, the two countries had argued over the boundary lines, with China making claims to Arunachal Pradesh, an eastern Indian state, and India claiming portions of Tibet that abut Indian-controlled Kashmir. The 2005 deal fostered optimism that some sort of quid pro quo compromise could be reached, enabling the two countries to concentrate on trade. And trade took off: it has risen tenfold to almost $60 billion, with Mr. Wen setting a new goal of $100 billion.
But Indian leaders now complain that trade is far too lopsided in China's favor and say that Indian corporations face too many obstacles in entering the Chinese market. Mr. Wen promised to help Indian corporations sell their products in China, but Indian officials are skeptical.
Meanwhile, China infuriated India by starting to issue special stapled paper visas -- rather than the standard visa -- for anyone in Indian-controlled Kashmir traveling to China on the grounds that Kashmir is a disputed territory. China later objected to including a top Indian general responsible for Kashmir in a military exchange in China. In response, Indian officials angrily suspended all military exchanges between the countries. Indian officials had thought Mr. Wen might reverse the stapled visas policy on his trip, but he instead only called for more diplomatic consultations.
Indian commentators have noticed that articles in the Chinese state-run media have renewed Chinese claims that the disputed border between the nations is roughly 1,240 miles in length -- even as India puts the length at about 2,175 miles. The difference roughly represents the border between Indian-controlled Kashmir and Tibetan China. By omitting this section, the Chinese are questioning the status of Indian-controlled Kashmir, a position that buttresses Pakistan's own claims, several Indian analysts have argued.
The most visible evidence that these problems were deepening came in the joint communique issued by the two nations at the end of Mr. Wen's visit. China typically demands that nations voice support for the one-China policy, which holds that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China. In past communiques, India has agreed to such language, but this time it was omitted, a clear sign of Indian irritation.
''It has been in every communique, but the Chinese didn't even bring it up,'' said a senior Indian official, speaking on the condition of anonymity. ''I think they knew if they had brought it up, they knew we would have demanded some movement on the stapled visa issue and the Kashmir issue.''
The senior official added: ''They must understand that there is a prospect of the relationship really going south. They will have to somehow moderate their stand on Kashmir. And they will have to take concrete steps to address the trade imbalance.''
India and China still cooperate on climate change and international trade policy, and some Indian diplomats grumble that the positive aspects of the relationship are too often overlooked by aggressive media organizations and an emboldened group of strategic analysts pushing for a harder line. China's state-run media outlets recently broadcast images of a new tunnel being completed through the Himalayas near the Indian border. These reports looked to some like boasting about the country's engineering prowess. In India, they were presented as a warning that China was building its infrastructure ever closer to India.
At the same time, India is watching warily as China pursues hydro projects that could affect the downstream flow of the Brahmaputra River in India.
Some Indian analysts note that tensions with China have increased in lockstep with the warming trend between India and the United States. During his visit, Mr. Obama spoke of a ''defining partnership'' between India and the United States and encouraged India to play a bigger role not only in South Asia but also in East Asia, China's backyard. Mr. Singh, in fact, had just finished a trip to Japan, Malaysia and Vietnam as part of India's ''Look East'' policy to build trade and diplomatic ties in the region.
''Our challenge will be to build our own leverage,'' the senior Indian official said.
''That is why the relationships with the United States, with Japan, with other Southeast Asian parties, all that will become even more important.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHINA: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India in New Delhi on Dec. 16 with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China, the last of five leaders representing the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council to visit India in recent months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAVEENDRAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
BRITAIN: Prime Minister David Cameron in India on July 29. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAVEENDRAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
UNITED STATES: President Obama in India's Parliament on Nov. 8. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
FRANCE: President Nicolas Sarkozy in Mumbai, India, on Dec. 7. (POOL PHOTO BY LIONEL BONAVENTURE, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 RUSSIA: President Dmitri A. Medvedev in Agra, India, last week. (POOL PHOTO BY DMITRY ASTAKHOV/RIA NOVOSTI, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (89%); DAVID CAMERON (70%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (69%); BARACK OBAMA (69%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) KASHMIR (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (78%); ARUNACHAL PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (98%); ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); MALDIVES (79%); TIBET (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



791 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Crude Oil Prices Stay Strong, Helping Indexes to Rally

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The major stock indexes extended their rally on Wednesday, led by energy companies as crude oil remained above $90 for a fifth consecutive day.
Schlumberger, an oilfield services provider, and Occidental Petroleum, an oil and natural gas producer, led energy companies to the biggest gain among 10 industries in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Shares in Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley declined after an analyst reduced earnings estimates.
The S.& P. 500 gained 0.1 percent, or 1.27 points, to 1,259.78, the highest since Sept. 8, 2008, and its 13th gain in the last 15 trading days. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 9.84 points, or 0.09 percent, to 11,585.38, its highest close since August 2008. The Nasdaq rose 4.05 points, or 0.15 percent, to 2,666.93. 
''The longer oil stays above $90, the more people are convinced there's a more stable price deck above $80 and potentially higher,'' said Michael Shinnick, a money manager for Wasatch Advisors in South Bend, Ind. ''As a group, energy stocks haven't priced in $80- to $90-a-barrel oil.''
The S.& P. 500 has gained 6.7 percent this month. Last week, it closed above 1,251.70 for the first time since Sept. 12, 2008, the last trading day before Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy.
''We are going to have more of the same next year,'' said Thomas Steinemann, chief strategist at Vontobel Asset Management in Zurich, whose parent company manages about $80 billion. ''There is enormous fiscal stimulus. Where it all leads is another question, but the surprise is probably on the upside for the economy and for equities.''
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 1 1/32, to 93 30/32. The yield fell to 3.35 percent, from 3.48 percent late Tuesday.
Trading slowed this week after a snowstorm hit the East Coast. About 468 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, the fewest for a full-day session since May 1998. The average over the last 100 days is 1.01 billion. As many as 1.2 million airline customers may have been affected by flight cancellations as the blizzard closed major airports.
The business barometer of the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago, a gauge of business conditions, is forecast to show a 15th consecutive month of expansion in December. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey is 61 after a reading of 62.5 in November. Readings above 50 indicate improving conditions.
Crude oil is trading over $90 for the first time since October 2008 amid signs that global demand is picking up. Spot crude oil prices fell 37 cents, to $91.12 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Shares of BJ's Wholesale Club jumped 7.08 percent, to $47.62. The private equity firm Leonard Green & Partners may make a hostile takeover bid for the chain if the retailer does not auction itself ''in the coming weeks,'' The New York Post said, citing unidentified sources.
Goldman Sachs declined 0.92 percent, to $167.63, and Morgan Stanley fell 1.37 percent, to $27.28. Mike Mayo at Credit Agricole Securities lowered fourth-quarter earnings estimates for the firms, citing lower-than-expected trading in their fixed-income, currencies and commodities units.
Monsanto, the seed company, rose 2.7 percent, to $68.92. It may get an earnings boost of 15 to 30 cents a share from a recent increase in glyphosate prices in China, Michael Cox, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, said in a report.
MBIA jumped 8.82 percent, to $10.36, after JPMorgan Chase and Barclays said they are withdrawing from a lawsuit over the company's decision to split its insurance unit in two. The lawsuit filed by 18 of the world's largest financial companies will continue for the remaining plaintiffs.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); SPOT MARKET (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BOND MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); AIRPORTS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); OXY (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (58%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (55%) INDIANA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010



792 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Governor Cuomo

 BODY:
Andrew Cuomo's inauguration ceremony on Saturday will be comparatively modest -- a long way from former Gov. George Pataki's black-tie gala and marching bands. That is appropriate at a time when New York State is mired in both a fiscal and political crisis. 
Even so, Mr. Cuomo will need more than symbolism to turn the state around. He will have to quickly confront all of New York's vested political and economic interests.
His most pressing task will be to carve $9 billion out of the state's $135 billion budget. His rash campaign promises to cap property taxes and end a small extra tax on high-income earners will make that even tougher.
He needs to jettison both tax promises. He will also have to negotiate less-generous pension plans for state workers. And he will have to come up with other savings from the state's big-ticket school and Medicaid budgets. Those cuts must be made. But Mr. Cuomo will need to find ways to limit the damage to the state's most vulnerable citizens in the process.
Mr. Cuomo's first budget is due on Feb. 1. If he makes the tough but necessary choices, the Legislature, the unions and others will protest fiercely. The new governor can significantly increase his political leverage, and public support, by also committing to reform the state's opaque budget process, which can be far too easily gamed -- until the bills come due.
The need for reform goes far beyond the budget. Based on the 2010 census, the Legislature is supposed to start mapping new Congressional and legislative districts in time for the 2012 elections. During the campaign, Mr. Cuomo promised to work for an independent, nonpartisan redistricting commission. That one reform could finally end the scandalous gerrymandering that allows even the most incompetent and corrupt legislators to keep getting re-elected, vote after vote.
A majority of legislators in both houses signed a pledge to establish such a commission immediately. Now that they are re-elected, some are already waffling. A few Republicans are even hinting that the whole matter should be done with a constitutional amendment, which would ensure that nothing changes for another decade. Mr. Cuomo can improve the chances for real electoral reform by repeatedly reaffirming his vow to veto any redistricting plan ''that reflects partisan gerrymandering.''
To clean up Albany's swamp, Mr. Cuomo should immediately -- next week -- introduce an omnibus ethics reform bill.
That must include the creation of an ethics enforcement commission to investigate misdeeds in both the Legislature and the executive branch, including the governor's office. All lawmakers must be required to reveal the sources and amounts of their outside income. There can be no exceptions for lawyers like Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker who could have clients with business before the state. The public doesn't know.
Effective reform will also require sweeping changes in the state's shamefully lax campaign finance rules with much stricter limits on contributions by individuals and limited liability corporations. And full disclosure should be easily available for all to see.
Mr. Cuomo repeatedly reminds New Yorkers that their tarnished state was ''once a national model.'' Now it is a model of dysfunction. Mr. Cuomo has a lot of work ahead and no time to waste.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); ELECTION LAW (75%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); MEDICAID (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); ETHICS (69%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010



793 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Tricky Call for New Governors: Price of Their Own Inaugurals

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; Monica Davey contributed reporting from Chicago.

 BODY:
MIAMI -- To warm up the Florida crowds for his inauguration as governor, Rick Scott has been flying around the state this week on a seven-city ''appreciation'' tour. For the main event on Tuesday, he will lead a parade featuring 26 marching bands, followed by a black-tie dinner for 2,100 people, with oysters Rockefeller and fried calamari served in mini-martini glasses. ''Real classy,'' said Christy Noftz, who is overseeing the catering.
After their election night victory speeches, the nation's 26 new governors have had to wrestle with a symbolically rich decision that could set the tone for their time in office: how big a party to give for themselves.
It is always a tricky call. Penny-pinching can convey pessimism and impotence. Lavish celebrations may telegraph triumphalism and insensitivity in these budget-crunched times (''Out of touch,'' groused a Democratic Party official in Florida about Mr. Scott's inaugural plans. ''Inexcusable,'' grumbled one local editorial.) 
But after an election rife with messages about voter anger and mistrust, the risks of an off-key bash are higher this inauguration season, and the governors-elect have starkly different answers to the question of how much party to put into party politics.
Or several parties, in some cases. In Nevada, Brian Sandoval, a Republican, will host back-to-back $1,000-a-head V.I.P. receptions, one of them at the Wynn Hotel on the Las Vegas Strip.
In Oklahoma, Mary Fallin, also a Republican, has organized two ''preinaugural balls,'' not to be confused with the inaugural ball itself, which will be held later at the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum in Oklahoma City.
Others are embracing conspicuous frugality. In New York, Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, is having a small preinauguration dinner for close friends at the governor's mansion, and has parceled out so few invitations to his no-frills swearing-in ceremony that even some top aides have not made the cut.
Jerry Brown of California has issued guidelines: no paid entertainment (a school choir will sing) and a rent-free evening reception (in a state-owned building). To highlight his thrift, Mr. Brown, a Democrat, plans to stop at a cookout after he takes the oath to snack on hot dogs and chips.
The extremes seem to reflect the uncertain economic times: shoppers may have returned to their prerecession ways during the holidays, but state budget deficits are ballooning, and there are persistent mutterings about the deep repair work that is needed to fix the economy.
What is certain is that the new chief executives and their staffs, no matter the party, are carefully considering the optics of opulence.
''They are pros who understand what a high-stakes gamble it is,'' said Bruce Buchanan, a professor of government at the University of Texas at Austin who has written extensively about political transitions.
''It's awkward because it's self-promotion. Whatever you do, somebody will think it's insufficient, or too much. So you want to alienate the fewest and capture the attention and respect of the most.''
Not everyone succeeds. Take two of Florida's governors. In 1995, Lawton Chiles shot off a homemade potato gun during his inaugural, grazing a car. Twelve years later, Charlie Crist refused to sing the state's official song, ''Old Folks at Home,'' citing the racially insensitive lyrics. Some Floridians found it disrespectful.
This year, some incoming governors say they are being sensitive to the financial plight of their constituents. In New York, which recently slashed $40 billion from its budget, ''people are disillusioned and disappointed,'' Mr. Cuomo said in an interview.
As his staff sat down to plan a celebration, the governor-elect said he told them there was nothing to celebrate. ''No balls, no concerts, no parades -- no fanfare,'' he said. ''I think it would be discordant to the feeling of the body politic.''
Mark Dayton, the Democratic governor-elect in Minnesota, said he considered canceling his party, which is scheduled for Jan. 8. Instead, he has authorized a ''Blue Jeans to Black Tie'' ball with a loose dress code and a flexible ticket price. He plans to show up in jeans and an old hockey jersey.
Then there is Mr. Scott in Florida, whose multiday, multicity inauguration has become known wryly in political circles here as the ''coronation.''
Preparations began shortly after Election Day with a prodigious fund-raising drive. Mr. Scott, a wealthy former health-care executive who dug into his own pocket to finance his campaign, received donations of $25,000 each from dozens of major state employers like Disney, Office Depot and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Florida, collecting nearly $3 million.
Good-government groups complained about potential conflicts of interest. (A spokeswoman for Mr. Scott said that in return for the donations companies would receive ''nothing more than a series of events honoring and celebrating the people of this state.'')
Eyebrows rose anew when Mr. Scott, relying on the donated use of private planes, took his inauguration on the road. He started in the north on Monday, hitting Jacksonville, and made his way south to Miami by Wednesday.
That night, in the Little Havana neighborhood, Mr. Scott treated a largely Cuban-American crowd to giant platters of roasted pig, brown rice and boiled yucca. A procession of local politicians introduced and reintroduced Mr. Scott, extolling his financial acumen and management skills.
On Tuesday, for his official inauguration, Mr. Scott will hold a two-hour prayer breakfast with no fewer than 10 speakers; an afternoon concert featuring the country singers Lee Greenwood and Rockie Lynne; and a parade befitting Disney World's home state.
Mr. Scott's aides published the packed schedule on what amounted to almost 10 single-spaced pages on his Web site. Among the highlights: a rendering of the stage being built for Mr. Scott's inaugural ball.
Democrats, especially, detected hypocrisy, and pounced. Mr. Scott, after all, campaigned on a platform of fiscal restraint and small government. Businessmen like himself, he declared shortly after the election, ''accept austerity as the price for dramatic turnarounds.''
Pressed about the scale of the festivities, Mr. Scott said: ''It absolutely is fitting for these times. We need to celebrate how we are going to change this state.''
As criticism mounted, his aides began pushing back. They produced data that suggested the inauguration would generate millions of dollars in economic activity, and they vowed that after covering the costs of the festivities, they would donate any money left over to a nonprofit group that aids wounded military veterans.
Most of the events, they said, are free to the public. Tickets to the ball, however, start at $95. Which may explain that elaborate spread of food, like a ''Fresh Florida Gulf Display'' that will include grilled Key West shrimp with a Florida avocado dipping sauce.
Why not limit the menu to hamburgers and hot dogs? The caterer said the menu was in sync with the tenor of the evening. ''It's a high-dollar ticket,'' she said. Besides, a budget buffet ''wouldn't be very attractive.''
Correction: January 5, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about the challenge for new governors in determining the appropriate size and cost for their inaugural celebrations misstated the surname of Florida's outgoing governor. He is Charlie Crist, not Christ.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Scott (A1)
The state seal of New York being carried into the Capitol's War Room, where Andrew M. Cuomo will be sworn in as governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Governor-Elect Rick Scott in Miami's Little Havana on Wednesday. At left, an invitation to the Nevada inaugural. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (90%); MARY FALLIN (58%); BRIAN SANDOVAL (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); JERRY BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



794 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Major Banks Need Midsize Ones

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
If big banks start failing again, what will replace them?
In the United States and Europe, that is a question with unsatisfactory answers in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
To put it in sports terms, there was nobody on the bench waiting for a chance to become a star. One result is that even after a crisis in which it was every country for itself, banking is becoming more internationalized than ever.
It was not always such in the United States. After the previous big financial crisis in the early 1980s, which centered on bad loans made to Latin American countries, there were major regional banks that -- because of luck or wisdom -- had not made the same mistakes. 
Charlotte, N.C., became an international financial center. NationsBank, which began life as North Carolina National Bank, took over Bank of America. The name stayed, but the company was very different.
To some extent, the availability of a bench stemmed from a long-held suspicion of banking in the United States. Americans feared big banks long after President Andrew Jackson abolished the Bank of the United States. For most of the 20th century, banks operated in only one state. In some, Illinois most prominently, banks could have only one office.
When barriers to interstate banking fell, there were many players able to grow into major institutions.
But those days seem to be gone. The banks with the ability and desire to snap up significant banks now seem to be at least as likely to be based outside the United States as inside.
If the previous crisis was largely caused by ill-advised international lending, this one was homegrown. The lending excesses centered on home mortgages, an area in which nearly every bank took part. When things blew up, there were few banks that could escape unscathed.
Still, some did better than others. JPMorgan Chase seems to have made fewer bad loans, although it has major headaches stemming from its acquisition of the assets of Washington Mutual, one of the largest irresponsible players.
Bank of America might be a shining star if it had restrained its own acquisitive instincts. Instead, it first rescued, then acquired Countrywide, which may have made more bad mortgage loans than any other lender.
Then, as the crisis grew, it picked up Merrill Lynch, an investment bank that had not figured out what you would think was something that any small-town retailer would know: If no one is buying what you are selling, there may be a problem with your product. So it bought its own products -- mortgage securitizations -- and kept the fees rolling. Unsurprisingly, it, or more accurately Bank of America, ended up losing money on the purchases.
All three acquisitions were encouraged by regulators, who wanted bigger institutions to buy -- or at least take over with government help -- smaller troubled institutions. Alas, neither the government nor the bigger banks understood the scale of the problem until it was too late. Nor did either bankers or regulators understand just how unrealistic were bank capital calculations.
There are a few well understood lessons from the debacle:
It is bad to have banks that are too big to fail. They may coin profits in good times, but the government is left with the bill in bad times.
Regulation matters. Banks in countries with good regulation fared the best. Canada has only a few major banks, but they did not get caught up in the credit bubble and are now able to buy American banks. Toronto Dominion ranked seventh in United States deposits in mid-2009, the most recent figures available, before it agreed to buy Chrysler Financial last week.
The Bank of Montreal has agreed to buy Wisconsin-based Marshall & Ilsley, which ranked 25th in 2009. Spain had a property bubble, and has many smaller banks in trouble, but strict rules kept the big Spanish banks from making the same errors that others made. They appear to be healthy.
Capital is crucial and so is liquidity. Regulators knew that banks were creating financial instruments whose primary purpose was to increase reported capital in dubious ways, but they did nothing about it. They completely ignored liquidity until they saw a ''well-capitalized'' Lehman Brothers collapse. Now regulators are phasing in tougher rules, but they fear acting too quickly because bank lending is needed now more than ever.
It can be suicidal for a country to have a financial sector that is too large, as Iceland and Ireland learned.
But there is one lesson that has been overlooked: Just as big league baseball teams need a farm system to provide replacements for players who age or are injured, a banking system needs a second tier of institutions that can step in and become major league banks if necessary.
Part of the problem in Europe now is that there was no second tier available in many countries. Virtually all the banks in Ireland made the same mistakes, and there were no available replacements.
In 1994, which is not that long ago, the 10 largest banks had about a quarter of all bank deposits in the United States. Now the top 10 have more than half of the deposits. In 1994, the next 30 on the list -- No. 11 through No. 40, collectively had more deposits than the top 10. Now they have much less than half.
In 1994, there was one foreign-owned institution in the top 25. That was Banco Santander of Spain, at No. 14. By 2009, there were eight.
There is nothing wrong with foreign-owned banks, even if their number does come as a surprise in a country that was seen by everyone as the financial leader. But the sheer number of them is an indication of just how thin the homegrown farm system has become in the United States.
That is not an easy issue to deal with. But as the country recovers from the last crisis, regulators would do well to look to the second tier, and do all they can to assure those banks are both healthy and ready to rise if needed when the next crisis arrives.
We have learned that it is risky to have banks that are too big to fail. We need to understand that is it also risky not to have banks that are big enough to pick up the pieces when the too-big banks do fail.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 10 LARGEST BANK HOLDING COMPANIES: In the United States, by deposits Figures are for deposits on June 30 of each year, but percentages are based on total commercial bank deposits six months earlier. (Source: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (75%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); SECURITIZATION (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (68%); ACQUISITIONS (61%); RETAILERS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010



795 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Clashes Loom, With E.P.A. Set To Limit Gases

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With the federal government set to regulate climate-altering gases from factories and power plants for the first time, the Obama administration and the new Congress are headed for a clash that carries substantial risks for both sides.
While only the first phase of regulation takes effect on Sunday, the administration is on notice that if it moves too far and too fast in trying to curtail the ubiquitous gases that are heating the planet it risks a Congressional backlash that could set back the effort for years.
But the newly muscular Republicans in Congress could also stumble by moving too aggressively to handcuff the Environmental Protection Agency, provoking a popular outcry that they are endangering public health in the service of their well-heeled patrons in industry.
''These are hand grenades, and the pins have been pulled,'' said William K. Reilly, administrator of the environmental agency under the first President George Bush. 
He said that the agency was wedged between a hostile Congress and the mandates of the law, with little room to maneuver. But he also said that anti-E.P.A. zealots in Congress should realize that the agency was acting on laws that Congress itself passed, many of them by overwhelming bipartisan margins.
President Obama vowed as a candidate that he would put the United States on a path to addressing climate change by reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas pollutants. He offered Congress wide latitude to pass climate change legislation, but held in reserve the threat of E.P.A. regulation if it failed to act. The deeply polarized Senate's refusal to enact climate change legislation essentially called his bluff.
With Mr. Obama's hand forced by the mandates of the Clean Air Act and a 2007 Supreme Court decision, his E.P.A. will impose the first regulation of major stationary sources of greenhouse gases starting Jan. 2.
For now, administration officials are treading lightly, fearful of inflaming an already charged atmosphere on the issue and mindful that its stated priorities are job creation and economic recovery. Officials are not seeking a major confrontation over carbon regulation, which offers formidable challenges even in a less stressed economic and political climate.
''If the administration gets it wrong, we're looking at years of litigation, legislation and public and business outcry,'' said a senior administration official who asked not to be identified so as not to provide an easy target for the incoming Republicans. ''If we get it right, we're facing the same thing.''
''Can we get it right?'' this official continued. ''Or is this just too big a challenge, too complex a legal, scientific, political and regulatory puzzle?''
The immediate effect on utilities, refiners and major manufacturers will be small, with the new rules applying only to those planning to build large new facilities or make major modifications to existing plants. The environmental agency estimates that only 400 such facilities will be affected in each of the first few years of the program. Over the next decade, however, the agency plans to regulate virtually all sources of greenhouse gases, imposing efficiency and emissions requirements on nearly every industry and every region.
Lisa P. Jackson, administrator of the E.P.A., has promised to pursue a measured and moderate course. The agency announced last week that it would not even begin issuing standards for compliance until the middle of 2011, and when it did so the rules would not impose unreasonable costs on industry.
But the reaction in Congress and industry has been outsized, with some likening the E.P.A. to terrorists and others vowing to choke off the agency's financing for all air-quality regulation. A dozen states have filed suit to halt the new greenhouse gas rules, with one, Texas, flatly refusing to comply with any new orders from Washington.
Two federal courts, including one this week in Louisiana, have refused to issue restraining orders halting the implementation of the new rules. But late Thursday, a federal appeals court in Washington temporarily blocked the the E.P.A. from enforcing its rules in Texas while the courts consider whether the federal agency has the right to take over the Texas program. The courts have not yet ruled on the legality of the broader federal program.
Representative Fred Upton, the Michigan Republican who is set to become chairman of the powerful House Energy and Commerce Committee, said he was not convinced that greenhouse gases needed to be controlled or that the E.P.A. had the authority to do so.
''This move represents an unconstitutional power grab that will kill millions of jobs -- unless Congress steps in,'' Mr. Upton wrote this week in a Wall Street Journal opinion essay.
His co-author was Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, a conservative group financed by Koch Industries and other oil companies that has spread skepticism about global warming and supported many of the Tea Party candidates who will join the new Congress.
Mr. Upton has proposed a moratorium on all global warming regulation until the courts have ruled definitively on the legality of federal action on the issue, decisions that are probably years away.
Others in Congress, including Senator John D. Rockefeller IV and Representative Nick J. Rahall II, both Democrats from West Virginia, have proposed a two-year delay in regulation by the E.P.A. while Congress comes up with its own rules. Virtually no one expects action on climate change legislation in the next Congressional session.
White House officials have said that they will recommend that Mr. Obama veto any measure that restricts the administration's power to enforce clean air laws.
So the stalemate continues.
Greenhouse gas emissions in the United States are already falling faster than any current legislative or regulatory proposal envisions, because of the recession-driven drop in demand for electricity. Carbon dioxide emissions from the energy sector, by far the largest source of total emissions, fell to about 5.4 billion metric tons in 2009, down from 5.8 billion metric tons the year before, and they are likely to fall even further this year. Demand for electricity in 2009 fell by the largest amount in six decades and is almost certain to slip further in 2010.
When demand for power begins to rebound with the economy, emissions are expected to rise more slowly than in the past, in part because utilities are using fuel more efficiently and switching to cleaner-burning natural gas for part of their electricity generation. But such moves will not take the place of the across-the-board reductions in emissions that will be required to meet the administration's target of a 17 percent reduction in emissions over 2005 levels by 2020.
And it is that broader mandate that has set off such intense opposition from industry and its allies in Congress.
''Early next year we're going to have a very serious debate on whether the E.P.A. should be allowed to unilaterally go forward and restructure the American economy,'' Jack Gerard, the president of the American Petroleum Institute, said in an interview.
''As the president looks to 2012, his message has to be job creation, and this kind of regulation is inconsistent with that,'' he said. ''The public has a long memory. Anything viewed as hurting the opportunity to create jobs will not be well received.''
Correction: January 4, 2011, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about political tensions over the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions by the federal Environmental Protection Agency misstated the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by the nation's energy sector in 2008 and 2009. It was about 5.8 billion metric tons in 2008, not 5,800 metric tons, and it was about 5.4 billion metric tons in 2009, not 5,400 metric tons. The article also misidentified the state in which a federal court declined last week to issue a restraining order blocking the enforcement of new federal emission rules in Texas. The court is in Louisiana, not Texas. And a picture caption misidentified the state in which the Allen S. King power plant is located. It is in Minnesota, in Oak Park Heights -- not in Wisconsin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The E.P.A. is set to regulate greenhouse gases from sources like this electric plant in Wisconsin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN BLEIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 William Reilly (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); JOB CREATION (64%); LITIGATION (62%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); APPEALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



796 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: The New Voodoo

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Hypocrisy never goes out of style, but, even so, 2010 was something special. For it was the year of budget doubletalk -- the year of arsonists posing as firemen, of people railing against deficits while doing everything they could to make those deficits bigger.
And I don't just mean politicians. Did you notice the U-turn many political commentators and other Serious People made when the Obama-McConnell tax-cut deal was announced? One day deficits were the great evil and we needed fiscal austerity now now now, never mind the state of the economy. The next day $800 billion in debt-financed tax cuts, with the prospect of more to come, was the greatest thing since sliced bread, a triumph of bipartisanship. 
Still, it was the politicians -- and, yes, that mainly meant Republicans -- who took the lead on the hypocrisy front.
In the first half of 2010, impassioned speeches denouncing federal red ink were the G.O.P. norm. And concerns about the deficit were the stated reason for Republican opposition to extension of unemployment benefits, or for that matter any proposal to help Americans cope with economic hardship.
But the tone changed during the summer, as B-day -- the day when the Bush tax breaks for the wealthy were scheduled to expire -- began to approach. My nomination for headline of the year comes from the newspaper Roll Call, on July 18: ''McConnell Blasts Deficit Spending, Urges Extension of Tax Cuts.''
How did Republican leaders reconcile their purported deep concern about budget deficits with their advocacy of large tax cuts? Was it that old voodoo economics -- the belief, refuted by study after study, that tax cuts pay for themselves -- making a comeback? No, it was something new and worse.
To be sure, there were renewed claims that tax cuts lead to higher revenue. But 2010 marked the emergence of a new, even more profound level of magical thinking: the belief that deficits created by tax cuts just don't matter. For example, Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona -- who had denounced President Obama for running deficits -- declared that ''you should never have to offset the cost of a deliberate decision to reduce tax rates on Americans.''
It's an easy position to ridicule. After all, if you never have to offset the cost of tax cuts, why not just eliminate taxes altogether? But the joke's on us because while this kind of magical thinking may not yet be the law of the land, it's about to become part of the rules governing legislation in the House of Representatives.
As the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities points out, the incoming House majority plans to make changes in the ''pay-as-you-go'' rules -- rules that are supposed to enforce responsible budgeting -- that effectively implement Mr. Kyl's principle. Spending increases will have to be offset, but revenue losses from tax cuts won't. Oh, and revenue increases, even if they come from the elimination of tax loopholes, won't count either: any spending increase must be offset by spending cuts elsewhere; it can't be paid for with additional taxes.
So if taxes don't matter, does the incoming majority have a realistic plan to cut spending? Of course not. Republicans say that they want to cut $100 billion in spending, which is itself small change in a $3.6 trillion federal budget. But they also say that defense, Medicare and Social Security -- all the big-ticket items -- are off the table. So they're talking about a 20 percent cut in what's left, which includes things like running the judicial system and operating the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; they have offered no specifics about where the cuts will fall.
How will this all end? I have seen the future, and it's on Long Island, where I grew up.
Nassau County -- the part of Long Island that directly abuts New York City -- is one of the wealthiest counties in America and has an unemployment rate well below the national average. So it should be weathering the economic storm better than most places.
But a year ago, in one of the first major Tea Party victories, the county elected a new executive who railed against budget deficits and promised both to cut taxes and to balance the budget. The tax cuts happened; the promised spending cuts didn't. And now the county is in fiscal crisis.
Now the federal government has a lot more flexibility than a county government: it needn't, and shouldn't, balance its budget each year. The deficits of the past two years have actually been a good thing, helping to support the economy in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.
But Nassau County shows how easily responsible government can collapse in this country, now that one of our major parties believes in budget magic. All it takes is disgruntled voters who don't know what's at stake -- and we have plenty of those. Banana republic, here we come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ARSON (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%)

PERSON: JON KYL (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010



797 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Academic Economists To Consider Ethics Code

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When the Stanford business professor Darrell Duffie co-wrote a book on how to overhaul Wall Street regulations, he did not mention that he sits on the board of Moody's, the credit rating agency.
As a commentator on the economy, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, a former adviser to President Bill Clinton who teaches in the business school at the University of California, Berkeley, does not usually say that she is a director of Morgan Stanley.
And the faculty Web page of Richard H. Clarida, a Columbia professor who was a Treasury official under President George W. Bush, omits that he is an executive vice president at Pimco, the giant bond fund manager.
Academic economists, particularly those active in policy debates in Washington and Wall Street, are facing greater scrutiny of their outside activities these days. Faced with a run of criticism, including a popular movie, leaders of the American Economic Association, the world's largest professional society for economists, founded in 1885, are considering a step that most other professions took a long time ago -- adopting a code of ethical standards. 
The proposal, which has not been announced to the public or to the association's 17,000 members, is partly a response to ''Inside Job,'' a documentary film released in October that excoriates leading academic economists for their ties to Wall Street as consultants, advisers or corporate directors.
Universities and medical schools have tightened disclosure requirements and conflicts of interest policies for scientists, engineers and doctors in recent years, and the main professional associations for political scientists, sociologists and psychologists have all adopted ethical codes.
During the American Economic Association's annual meeting, in Denver next week, its executive committee will take up a proposal to ''consider the association's role regarding ethical standards for economists,'' according to an internal committee agenda obtained by The New York Times.
The association's president, Robert E. Hall of Stanford, would not elaborate on the proposal or say where he stood on it.
''Like my predecessors, I'm skeptical that the A.E.A. is well-positioned to cure any ethical lapses that economists may be committing outside the A.E.A. itself,'' he wrote in an e-mail. ''Still, the topic might benefit from further discussion within the organization.''
The proposal is likely to raise a host of questions: Should economists be required merely to disclose who finances their research, as many academic journals already require? Should they have to reveal which corporate clients they advise, consult for or give speeches to? Should they even be allowed to serve as corporate directors and officers, as many business and finance professors do?
Some scholars say the discussion is long overdue.
''I'm glad the A.E.A. is taking it up,'' said Dale W. Jorgenson, a former president of the association and a longtime Harvard professor (he advised the undergraduate thesis of Ben S. Bernanke, now the Federal Reserve chairman). ''I'm hoping they take an activist position.''
Professor Jorgenson said that academic economists had fallen behind scholars in other fields in their attentiveness to transparency, and should follow the example of the biomedical sciences, where money from the private sector is subject to rigorous disclosure rules. But another former president of the association, Robert E. Lucas Jr., said universities were better suited to handle the matter.
''It's good to get this stuff out in the open, but I don't like the idea of the A.E.A. watching over this,'' said Mr. Lucas, a Nobel laureate at the University of Chicago.
Mr. Lucas added: ''What disciplines economics, like any science, is whether your work can be replicated. It either stands up or it doesn't. Your motivations and whatnot are secondary.''
Since economics emerged as a modern discipline in the late 19th century, its practitioners have resisted formal ethical codes, said George F. DeMartino, an economist at the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Denver.
In ''The Economist's Oath: On the Need for and Content of Professional Economic Ethics,'' to be published in January, Mr. DeMartino describes concerns dating to the 1920s about the influence of business on economic research, and cites multiple calls within the association for a code of conduct -- all of which have been rebuffed.
After one such debate in 1994, the committee concluded that it might not have the relevant expertise to fairly judge ethical disputes; that a fair mechanism to resolve complaints would be hard to establish; and that any such effort could result in lawsuits and prove toothless because of a lack of sanctions for violators.
''I can see the case for specific rules on conflicts of interest, but that doesn't begin to exhaust the ethical challenges that confront economists,'' Mr. DeMartino said.
What is clear is that the film has rattled the profession.
''You could call this the 'Inside Job' effect,'' said David H. Autor, an M.I.T. professor who is a nonvoting member of the committee but had not heard of the proposal. ''Certainly the implication of the movie was that people were selling their academic reputations to further the interests of moneyed individuals and institutions.''
The film is particularly critical of R. Glenn Hubbard, dean of Columbia Business School and a director of MetLife; Frederic S. Mishkin, a professor at the same school who advises investment firms; and Martin S. Feldstein, a Harvard professor who resigned from the board of the American International Group, the insurance giant, after it was bailed out by the Fed and the Treasury.
All have held top posts. Professor Feldstein was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Ronald Reagan, a job Mr. Hubbard later held under Mr. Bush. Professor Mishkin was a Fed governor.
Mr. Hubbard said the association proposal ''sounds like a very good idea,'' and Professor Mishkin said: ''I strongly support having the A.E.A. clarify standards for disclosure, because increased transparency would benefit the public and the economics profession.'' (Professor Feldstein said he could not discuss his work for A.I.G. on the advice of lawyers.)
A recent paper by Gerald Epstein and Jessica Carrick-Hagenbarth of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, found that many financial economists who weighed in on the Wall Street overhaul signed into law in July did not prominently disclose potential conflicts of interest.
As an example they cited Mr. Duffie, who like Mr. Mishkin was an author of ''The Squam Lake Report,'' a volume of recommendations on financial reform that was published in June.
''Looking back on it, it was probably an oversight not to say that we not only talk to regulators but have affiliations with players in the financial services industry,'' Mr. Duffie said.
Others said they saw no problem with their multiple roles. Professor Clarida, of Columbia, said his experiences at Treasury and Pimco ''enhance my academic work and my effectiveness in the classroom.''
Ms. Tyson, who is an unpaid adviser to the Obama administration, said, ''Provided everything is disclosed, there is no reason why an economist who happens to have associations in the private sector should be precluded from speaking out on policy issues.''
But while many economists disclose corporate work on their Web sites, others do not. Professor Clarida provided a copy of his resume that lists his work for Pimco, but his Web page has an older version that does not.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In his new book ''The Economist's Oath,'' George DeMartino cites multiple calls within the American Economic Association for a code of conduct. All of them have been rebuffed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); BOND FUNDS (69%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); CREDIT BUREAUS (57%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010



798 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2165 words

HEADLINE: Landscapes and Still Lifes of New Territories

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
FAVORITE paintings in New York museums? You don't have to be an art critic to have a few, or a few dozen. Winnowing these treasures down to five -- the assignment here for three critics for The New York Times -- is a pleasant, invigorating yet implicitly arbitrary endeavor. The resulting lists can only be characterized conditionally, as personal, partial or provisional.
All told the city offers one of the world's great accounts of the medium. The paintings selected here range from Giovanni Bellini's ''St. Francis in the Desert,'' from 1480, in the Frick Collection to ''Do the Dance,'' from 2005, by Elizabeth Murray in the Museum of Modern Art. (The choices are on Pages 26 through 28.)
Paintings, like poetry or music, are essential nutrients that help people sustain healthy lives. They're not recreational pleasures or sidelines. They are tools that help us grasp the diversity of the world and its history, and explore the emotional capacities with which we navigate that world. They illuminate, they humble, they nurture, they inspire. They teach us to use our eyes and to know ourselves by knowing others. 
If New York's legions of irresistible paintings could sing, these hills would be magnificently alive with the sound of their music.
'GREEN STILL LIFE,' BY PICASSO, MUSEUM OF MODERN ART One requisite for ''favorite painting'' status would seem to be an irrational, mood-boosting thrill each time you see it. Even by that standard my soft spot for this popular Synthetic Cubist Picasso is especially spongy.
I looked at it regularly before I had any inking of Picasso, Cubism or the Museum of Modern Art (which received it as a bequest from one of its founders, Lillie P. Bliss, in 1934). Or at least I looked at a handsome, possibly full-size reproduction, stylishly framed in white, that hung in my parents' house in Lawrence, Kan. The facsimile even hinted at, I think, some of the bumpiness fanning out from the white, darkly shadowed compote dish that is one of its central elements. Its reworked roughness could be signs of an earlier composition painted over. Still, Picasso made the best of it, eventually reinforcing the turbulence with radiating dashes of color that first scale the neck of the wine bottle that is the compote's consort and then scatter beyond.
Picasso painted ''Green Still Life'' in the summer of 1914 in Avignon, after ushering the interlocking planes of his Analytic Cubist paintings into robust three dimensions with his various guitar sculptures. Robustness prevails here too, in the solid, flat green field that is about as close as Picasso gets to the modernist monochrome. It can be read as a response to Matisse's ''Red Studio'' of 1911, especially as it hangs just a few galleries away at the Modern.
But in the main, ''Green Still Life'' shows Picasso relaxing into Synthetic Cubism's flirtier, simpler compositions, brighter colors and Pointillist dots, which in this case intimate table runners and a spider web catching the yellow light. The letters J O U, a Cubist staple, are further away from ''Journal'' (French for newspaper) and closer to ''jouer'' (to play) or ''jou-jou'' (child's toy) than ever. Fancifully shaped and stippled in black and white, they actually seem carved into a little block.
Other visual witticisms include the outline of a pear that contains a bit of lovingly exact pear flesh, a large bristling orb that might be a pineapple or artichoke, a cut-glass vessel and a hand wrapped around a grenade. It is the summer of 1914; World War I is just getting under way.
'HEAT,' BY FLORINE STETTHEIMER, BROOKLYN MUSEUM The Brooklyn Museum has the city's best painting by the eccentric if thoroughly modern Florine Stettheimer, a greater artist than Georgia O'Keeffe. It is ''Heat'' (1919), a smoldering flaglike field of wide bands of orange, deep yellow and olive green dotted with the figures of Stettheimer, her sisters Ettie, Carrie and Stella and their revered mother, Rosetta. It was painted in 1919, the year Stettheimer turned 48 and was at the peak of her strange powers as an artist.
These powers revolved around an unwavering faith in saturated color laid on thickly, and a slightly wicked gift for caricature. Perched on the steeply banked color bands, the women are arrayed in a circle. In the foreground is a lighted birthday cake set on a table whose oval top is one of the few concessions to spatial recession, although the foreshortening mainly serves to fuse cake and tabletop into a very large eye that adds to the painting's mesmerizing power. The Stettheimers are enduring the summer heat in different ways, while also enacting varying states of consciousness: limp collapse, wakening, sitting up and finally conversing with Mama, who wears head-to-toe Victorian black and appears to be fully alert. A kind of life cycle, perhaps, with death at the top.
Private wealth ensured Florine Stettheimer a genteel, uncompromised life. She declined to have solo shows during her lifetime (despite the enthusiasm of artist friends like Marcel Duchamp and Hilla Rebay and the critic Henry McBride). She disliked selling her work. The capsule about ''Heat'' on the Brooklyn Museum's Web site begins with her observation that ''letting people have your paintings is like letting them wear your clothes.'' This statement hints at something of the iron butterfly that you sense in the merciless color and tactility of ''Heat,'' not to mention the suggestion of an inverted, probably male torso in the black tree visible in the background.
One indication of a painting's staying power is its ability to function like a two-sided mirror, showing parts of both the past and future of painting side by side. ''Heat'' looks back to the languid fetes of Watteau (as the art historian Barbara Bloemink has pointed out) and the solid colors of the Italian primitives, and forward to two artists rarely mentioned in the same sentence: Mark Rothko and Tim Burton.
'MORNING IN THE VILLAGE AFTER SNOWSTORM,' BY MALEVICH, GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM Like so many works from the 1910s Malevich's ''Morning in the Village After Snowstorm'' (1912) hovers deliciously between abstraction and representation, object and image, imagined and perceived.
Within two years of assembling this gleaming, scalloped vortex of snow drifts, peasants, houses and trees, Malevich would bring forth what is generally considered Western painting's first pure abstraction, the first of his ''Black Square'' compositions, which he set against a field of white and described as a ''full void.'' In the Guggenheim painting we sense the fullness of his mystical void as an approaching whiteout, a kind of blazing light that threatens to burn away image. Strictly speaking, this would leave us with something closer to his ''Suprematist Composition: White on White'' of 1918, the tilting kitelike square of cool white on a slightly warmer white ground in the Museum of Modern Art.
In the meantime ''Morning'' ravishes the eye with its sparkling facets of red, blue, black and tan, shaded to white. The gaze moves through the scene like an icebreaker. The forms heave to either side, nearly filling the available space but leaving a narrow path to a tiny figure pulling a sled in the distance. One-point perspective and the Renaissance notion of the picture plane as a window are bid fond farewell.
Among the crowning achievements of that marvelous Russian mongrel Cubo-Futurism, ''Morning'' has Malevich both scaling up and calming down Cezanne's anxious cylinders, spheres and especially cones to the point of majesty. Malevich then enlists them to render country life as he knew it from his childhood, a return to roots that proved similarly effective for other early modernist painters, including Kandinsky, Gabriele Munter, Chagall and, as we shall see, Miro.
The smoothness of Malevich's paint application adds to the forms' metallic sheen. We are in the world of Dorothy's Tin Man, a realm in which, if you cast the mind forward a bit, you can imagine both the metal Minimalist boxes of Donald Judd and the fluorescent glow of Dan Flavin's light installations.
'VINES AND OLIVE TREES, TARRAGONA,' BY MIRo, METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART Before Miro cut loose with his well-known improvisations of balloon forms, raw, washy colors and meandering automatist lines, he was a wonderfully fussy painter. His strength lay in tightening and tweaking reality a little beyond the real, creating a sharp and exacting artifice that brought the decorative, the abstract and the natural into perfect harmony. ''Vines and Olive Trees, Tarragona'' was painted in 1919, the year before Miro left Barcelona for Paris. Although he was certainly no stranger to the latest modernist styles, it shows him considering them at a remove in a sequence of contrasting landscape treatments that celebrates nature's bounty.
Miro's subject is the countryside near Tarragona, Spain, south of Barcelona and not far from his parents' farm in Montroig, terrain he knew well and clearly loved. The composition proceeds like a succession of stage flats, different yet connected, beginning with the parallel bands of sun-baked furrows running across the bottom of the picture, where young vines are cradled in freshly dug, impossibly consistent holes. Their feathery leaves are attached to twigs of a calligraphic angularity that brings to mind wrought iron.
In the next tier -- or field -- the furrows pivot toward the horizon, but they don't get far. Instead they erupt into accordionlike pleats, with locked-together edges that are alternately jagged or curvaceous (and anticipate Matisse's cutouts) and flat, bright colors of blue-green, dark pink and yellow, a kind of naturalized version of the primary colors.
A series of tilting geometric shapes -- studded with the Pointillist dots of Synthetic Cubism -- follows, suggesting village roofs. Then, with the dots continuing, and accompanied by spike-leafed plants suggesting yuccas, the olive trees start up. Their cotton-ball shapes blend into a level, oceanlike mass on the left, while on the right, a single tree rises above all else, its sinuous branches and leaves performing a kind of fan dance that causes other trees to follow suit into the distance.
Finally, at the farthest reaches of the painting, a soft, lavender of mountains is visible in the haze, a parting tribute to Impressionism. This gentle fade makes you all the more aware of the carefully orchestrated cacophony that has brought you there. Now nearly 100 years old, this work is a relative newcomer to the ranks of New York's painting gems, having arrived at the Met as part of the Gelman Collection in 1998. Welcome.
'DO THE DANCE,' BY ELIZABETH MURRAY, MUSEUM OF MODERN ART Elizabeth Murray's ''Do the Dance'' is a late painting, made in 2005 after she had received the diagnosis of the brain cancer that would kill her two years hence, at 66. Made of five separate shaped canvases that create the illusion of scores of individual smaller canvases percolating momentarily into a rectangular cluster, it is obliquely autobiographical, as all convincing art probably must be to some extent. Most of Murray's paintings can be read as tallies of both the private emotions and events of her life and of the visual sources that fed her art throughout her career. Her vocabulary was built on elements from the work of Braque, Picasso, Miro and Malevich, as well as Jim Nutt and R. Crumb.
Like my other choices here ''Do the Dance'' operates in the lavishly appointed gap between the actual and the abstract. In its lower-left corner we see a character familiar from earlier Murrays -- a rubbery Gumby figure whose limbs stretch into ribbonlike extensions. This figure is now apparently the patient, attached to a light-green IV, lying on white and yellow sheets whose red-flecked patterns discreetly evoke blood. Near its head a small four-pronged shape resembles a rubber glove, yet its cartoony, splatlike silhouette is one that recurs throughout Murray's art, as spilled coffee, for example. (The hospital, like everywhere else, seems to have brimmed with expressive potential for her.)
Just above the brown figure a series of white round canvases connected by a blue laddered line that might be a spinal column or a sutured incision implies another figure. This one's head is crisscrossed with red lines and attached to an oxygen tube. On the right half of the painting two baggy, biomorphic shapes -- one yellow, one lavender -- occupy their own irregular canvases; they form a couple struggling to stay connected while closely resembling examples of Murray's earlier work. So does an undulant cloud of purple-brown, punctuated by a white dotted line. Other irregular, bulbous lines snake and coil among and around these larger shapes, suggesting tubes, wiring or cords of synaptic nodes.
At the bottom of it all, in the form of a long blue squiggle, lie the waters of Manhattan. ''Do the Dance,'' Murray tells us, when the end is near. The dance is life. And life, for her, was painting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Miro's ''Vines and Olive Trees, Tarragona'' (1919), which combines modernist styles with a gentle farewell to Impressionism, presents the Spanish countryside in a manner that brings the decorative, the abstract and the natural into perfect harmony. (PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART/SUCCESSIO MIRO, ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY, NEW YORK AND ADAGP, PARIS)
Malevich's ''Morning in the Village After Snowstorm'' (1912), painted just before he produced what are considered Western painting's first works of abstraction, incorporates geometric forms in a memory of childhood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM)
 Like other of her works, Elizabeth Murray's ''Do the Dance'' (2005), created after she learned she had cancer, charts emotions and events of her life. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF MODERN ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); PAINTING (91%); MUSIC (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010



799 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: On the Border, Horses, Too, Are Casualties Of Drug Trade

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- Found tottering alone in the desert with their ribs visible and their heads hung low, horses play a backbreaking, unappreciated role in the multibillion-dollar drug smuggling industry.
Mexican traffickers strap heavy bales of marijuana or other illegal drugs to the horses' backs and march them north through mountain passes and across rough desert terrain. With little food and water, some collapse under their heavy loads. Others are turned loose when the contraband gets far enough into Arizona to be loaded into vehicles with more horsepower.
''We would pick up 15 to 20 horses a month, and many more of the animals would get past us,'' said Brad Cowan, who spent 28 years as a livestock officer for the Arizona Department of Agriculture before retiring a few months back. ''They wear poorly fitted equipment. It's obvious they were not well taken care of. The makeshift saddles rub big sores in their backs.'' 
Even once rescued, the horses face an uncertain future. Since they are not from the United States, the state of Arizona must draw their blood and conduct a battery of tests to ensure that they do not carry any disease that would infect domestic livestock. Then the horses head to auction, where some are bought and shipped back to Mexico for slaughter.
Others are luckier. They find their way to equine rescue operations, which help place them with homes.
''We just got a horse in, and he's sticks and bones, and his feet are horrific,'' said July Glore, president of Heart of Tucson, a rescue operation that nurses the horses back to strength. ''We get calls all the time about abandoned horses. How many do I have right now? One, two, three.''
One, named Lucky, had his tongue almost cut in half from the sharp wire bit put in his mouth. ''I was told he was a drug horse,'' Ms. Glore said.
Farther north, at the Arizona Equine Rescue Organization in New River, Soleil K. Dolce said drug horses were just part of the problem. Ms. Dolce responds to police calls about horses that have escaped from illegal rodeos and are running down the street. Horses are also left at freeway off-ramps or tied to fences by owners who no longer want them, she said.
Rehabilitating them is expensive and time consuming, Ms. Dolce said, and there is the possibility that some horses will never be adopted.
''I can't even describe the suffering these horses have gone through,'' Ms. Dolce said, petting Rim Rock, who was abandoned in Tonto National Forest, east of Phoenix, several years ago and still suffers problems in his hooves.
It is sometimes not clear when a horse is discovered exactly how it came to be abandoned. State officials say the economic crisis has led to many more animals being let loose by owners no longer able to care for them. But the horses that are found with Mexican brands are presumed to be smuggling horses. And sometimes the authorities have no doubt: groups of horses or donkeys are discovered in the act, with bales of drugs on their backs and their human guides hiding.
Last year, seven horses laden with 971 pounds of marijuana were discovered by Border Patrol agents in the Patagonia Mountains in southern Arizona. The human smugglers had fled.
''I'd get angry when I'd see the condition these horses were in,'' Mr. Cowan said. ''The smugglers would buy them or steal them on the Mexican side and then work them almost to death. They have horrible sores that can take months to heal up.''
He recalled one horse he came across in Pima County, not far from the Mexican border, that had deep wounds in its hide, was clearly malnourished and was so weak that it was trying to sit back on its hind end to take the weight off its legs. Mr. Cowan and a co-worker had to carry the horse into a trailer.
Still, he said, horses are resilient. ''They can come back from a lot,'' he said.
Some of the abused horses end up back in the rugged border region where they were first found, Mr. Cowan said. Instead of smuggling, though, they are sometimes used by law enforcement agencies to pursue the traffickers who mistreated them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''I can't even describe the suffering these horses have gone through,'' said Soleil K. Dolce, at a rescue center in New River, Ariz.With her was Cheer's Gold.
 A quarter horse named Rim Rock received care at Ms. Dolce's center, the Arizona Equine Rescue Organization, after he was abandoned in 2006. Now 19, Rim Rock wears cushions because of problems with his hooves. Fifteen horses were being cared for this month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); HORSES (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); DESERTS (73%); CANNABIS (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MOUNTAINS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010



800 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Texas Stands Against Tide in Retaining Biennial Legislature

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Come January, as Texas lawmakers begin work to pass bills and tackle the yawning budget gap, they will go up against a simple but implacable barrier: time.
Texas is one of a dwindling number of states whose legislatures hold scheduled meetings only every two years. Just three other, far less-populous states -- Montana, Nevada and North Dakota -- still have biennial legislative sessions.
For Texas legislators, the challenge will come into stark relief when they must plug a budget gap that could top $20 billion for the fiscal years 2012-13; the state's general revenue funds budget for the current biennium, by comparison, is estimated at $87 billion. They must make major financial decisions and plan budgets that will stand for the next two years at a time when the economy is difficult to predict.
It is partly because of the challenges associated with biennial budgeting that most states moved to annual sessions. 
''It's just something that doesn't work well,'' said State Representative Richard Pena Raymond, Democrat of Laredo, who wants to change the state's Constitution to force the Legislature to meet yearly. If biennial budgeting was a good idea, Mr. Raymond added, ''other governments would be doing it -- cities, counties, schools. And they don't.''
During the 19th century, when traveling was difficult and state legislatures generally fell into disrepute, many states gravitated toward a biennial system. As recently as 1940, only four states had legislatures that met every year, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, a research group. But as state budgets became more complicated and the federal government pushed more responsibilities onto the states, particularly in the 1960s and '70s, most legislatures switched to annual sessions, according to Brian Weberg, an official with the legislatures conference. The legislative branch of state government correspondingly became more powerful.
But not all of the states with annual legislative sessions have switched to annual budgeting. According to the legislatures conference, as of 2010, 20 states -- down from 44 in 1940 -- plan their budgets every two years.
One consequence in Texas is the need for emergency supplemental appropriations bills toward the beginning of most sessions, said Mr. Raymond, vice chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. Lawmakers are also often tempted to raid, and increase, fees intended for specific programs in order to balance the general budget, he said.
Another consequence of a biennial, time-limited system is a logjam of bills at the end of the session. (A counterargument is that longer sessions can lead to too many frivolous bills.)
Oregon is the latest state to switch to annual legislative sessions. Last month, its voters approved a constitutional amendment enabling the Legislative Assembly to meet yearly, but for only 35 days and 160 days in even- and odd-numbered years, respectively. Arkansas changed to annual sessions this year after voters approved a constitutional amendment in 2008.
Texas has not always embraced the biennial approach. The state waffled in the early days: the 1836 Constitution did not address the issue but stated that House members should be elected yearly -- and the Republic's Congress soon allowed annual sessions. The Constitution of 1845, however -- the year Texas became a state -- specified biennial sessions. In 1869, yet another constitution opted for annual sessions, but that changed in 1876, when the Constitution that is still in effect specified biennial sessions.
To switch to an annual system would require a constitutional amendment. That has been done 467 times since 1876, but one key phrase has survived: ''The Legislature shall meet every two years, at such time as may be provided by law, and at other times when convened by the governor.'' A 1960 constitutional amendment added this refinement: ''No regular session shall be of longer duration than one hundred and forty (140) days.''
Some Texas politicians say that even as other states move to annual sessions, Texas will continue to stand against the tide.
''The citizens of Texas inherently don't trust government,'' said Kip Averitt, who until recently served as a Republican state senator from Waco. He added, ''I don't think the public perceives it as a problem.''
Indeed, between 1949 and 1975 Texas voters rejected five constitutional amendments calling for a switch to an annual session. Legislative pay increases were also on those ballots in four of those instances. Last session, Mr. Raymond introduced legislation to add a session in even-numbered years dedicated to the budget, lasting up to 60 days, or 90 if a majority of lawmakers approve. He said he thought the recession might spur action. But after billions of dollars in federal stimulus money got marked for Texas in 2009, Mr. Raymond said, lawmakers quickly lost interest in the idea.
Even if the Legislature passed Mr. Raymond's proposal, which he has already reintroduced for the coming session, the change would then need to be approved by Texas voters.
Gov. Rick Perry, who has made small government a theme of his tenure, would oppose any move to annual legislatures, said Catherine Frazier, a spokeswoman. ''We need to be focused on how to limit government in people's lives,'' Ms. Frazier said, ''not create more of it.''
In Texas, a 30-day special session costs about $1.2 million, according to a 2009 estimate from the Legislative Budget Board. So a 60-day session might cost twice that, Mr. Raymond said. Lawmakers' $168 per diem allotment during sessions, which could soon get cut to $150, is among the expenditures involved.
Only 10 states, including populous ones like California, Michigan, New York and Pennsylvania, have full-time or nearly full-time lawmakers who generally earn a living wage -- upward of $95,000 in California's case -- off their legislative work, according to the legislatures conference. By contrast, Texas senators and representatives earn $7,200 annually (not counting the per diem) for their public work -- among the lowest rates in the nation, and less than even in Louisiana and Mississippi.
Some state legislatures that convene yearly do so only for a short time. For example, Wyoming, the least-populous state, has regular sessions of up to 40 days in odd-numbered years and about 20 in even-numbered ones.
In practice, of course, the Texas Legislature sometimes does meet for more than 140 days. Mr. Perry has called eight special sessions -- most of them about a month long -- in his 10 years as governor.
And Texas lawmakers hardly work for just five months every two years. They meet with constituents (an activity that biennial supporters say annual sessions might cut into) and hold hearings year-round. Texas also has a large legislative staff relative to other states, Mr. Weberg of the legislatures conference said. Staff members of groups like the Legislative Budget Board, a legislative committee that develops recommendations for the budget, work year-round.
''It's a full-time job if it's done correctly,'' former Senator Averitt said of lawmakers' role.
Mr. Raymond, for his part, wryly points out one immediate advantage of switching to annual budgeting via annual sessions.
''Practically speaking,'' he said, ''if you pass my bill, the deficit turns from $25 billion to $12.5 billion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Legislators will soon gather at the Capitol for their biennial session. Texas is one of just four states whose legislatures meet every two years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD WISEMAN/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); REFERENDUMS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAREDO, TX, USA (78%) TEXAS, USA (96%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2010

 
