

201 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: Searching for Incentives To Entice Polluters

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
As Congress last week discussed the renewal of the Clean Air Act, it wrestled with expanded use of an unusual concept in pollution control: letting industries buy and sell the right to emit pollutants, with companies deciding among themselves how to share the work that the Government wants done. Under President Bush's proposal, this flexibility would extend to automobiles. The law would specify the number of ''alternative fuel'' cars but would not say what fuel or precisely which companies would make them or the fuels.
Industry generally favors these trading programs, saying they lead to greater economic efficiency. But environmentalists warn of pitfalls that will make the cleanup program less effective.
Last week Charles J. DiBona, the president of the American Petroleum Institute and an economist, and David G. Hawkins, senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council, who was the Environmental Protection Agency's Assistant Administrator for Air, Noise and Radiation from 1977 to 1981, met to debate the merits of pollution trading. Matthew L. Wald of The New York Times moderated. 
 
 
Mr. DiBona: We now spend on the order of $100 million per year, or about 2 percent of G.N.P, on environmental controls. In the future the cost will undoubtedly rise, perhaps quickly. If the Europeans and Asians should utilize incentive approaches to protect their environments while we do not, our industries will be at a competitive disadvantage. While there is not much experience with incentive systems, they have in some cases provided substantial economies, and many academic studies show large potential economies.
Mr. Hawkins: In some circumstances the environmental community feels comfortable with incentive systems based on trading the right to pollute. An example is the President's proposal on the trading of sulfur dioxide emission allowances for acid rain control. A reduction somewhere in the market is fungible with a reduction elsewhere. It does not involve trading one individual's right to a clean environment against another's right to a clean environment. And the pollutants, particularly sulfur dioxide, can be accurately monitored.
But we are not as confident in the President's bill to allow market alternatives with respect to automotive air pollution, particularly ozone and smog. It violates fundamental principles of environmental protection.
 
Question: In what way?
Mr. Hawkins: The so-called alternate fuels proposal would obligate vehicle makers starting in 1995 to sell 500,000 vehicles a year, going up to 1 million, that can use alternate fuels like methanol. The proposal would allow auto makers to market cleaner vehicles in one metropolitan area and dirtier vehicles in another. It would permit fuel refiners to market cleaner fuels in one metropolitan area, dirtier fuels in another.
This approach is different from acid rain in that these reductions are not fungible. Why should New Yorkers be subjected to dirtier cars because auto makers found it convenient to sell cleaner cars in L.A.?
 
Mr. DiBona: There is a provision in the bill that permits fuel manufacturers and auto manufacturers to trade or share the responsibility of delivering these fixed numbers of autos or volumes of fuel, so I don't think that it runs into the problems you suggest. I agree that it would not make much sense to reduce the quality of air in Chicago to improve it in some other area. What we ought to insure is that the trades are commensurate.
Now, we can debate a trade between areas. You can imagine that part of a given region might meet the ambient air standard and part of it might not. A trade between these two areas that reduced costs, brought the area not in compliance into compliance, raised the level of pollutants in the other, but not enough to put it over the standard, in some instances would be a sensible step.
You'll get the most bang for your buck in environmental reduction if the next increment of pollution reduction comes from the emitter who can do it cheapest. And you will do that until his costs rise to the point where there's someone else who can now start doing it even more cheaply.
 
Q. Why is that better than just ordering pollution reductions?
Mr. DiBona: The problem of the command and control system, in which the government sets pollution levels and everyone must comply, is that you set a set standard for everybody. Some people are going to be able to do better, but they don't have to. In fact, they have every incentive not to let you know they can do it better.
Mr. Hawkins: The system often does lack the incentive to do better. However, our fix is different.
The fix that's typically proposed is that you start with a base line. The government, with all its inability to spot developing pollution control trends, determines the amount of opportunity for further progress. A trading system is set up where people who have successfully withheld from the government information showing that they can do better will be able to turn that into allowances to pollute more elsewhere.
 
Q. In other words, this is a system that rewards those who have hidden their capabilities thus far?
Mr. Hawkins: It certainly does. For example, in the Clean Air Act, there is a term - reasonably available control technology. A lot of proposals want to allow trading of pollution allowances if you do anything beyond what's reasonably available. Politically, how could you be opposed to giving credit for going beyond what's reasonable? Our remedy would be to impose a charge on emissions, to create an incentive for reductions.
On the other hand, if you introduce trading of allowances into a system that is in the process of defining regulatory requirements, you have introduced a new incentive. You introduce an incentive to define the pre-existing regulatory requirements as leniently as possible. Because the more lenient the base line, the more opportunity there is for trade.
 
Q. Are we arguing over what level should be reached, or how to reach it?
Mr. Hawkins: We are not arguing what levels should be reached. And, indeed, in Congress the petroleum industry is not arguing that the ambient air quality standard should be changed for smog. They are arguing about how many years these cities should be allowed to violate these health standards. It's not acceptable to have a 21-year period where these standards can be violated.
Mr. DiBona: We are not arguing about the standards. We have argued that we and the government should spend a little more time getting information about alternative fuels. Companies might implement it faster once they have that information. They do not have the information on methanol because there have not been enough tests.
The advantage of even using a lousy system of trading rights is that you don't have to set them for eternity. Then you watch how the system works. You'll get a lot of information on how to clean up that you would never get otherwise. And then you can re-set the system.
 
Q. We're still left with this issue of how to pick a starting point, of what is reasonably available control technology.
Mr. DiBona: Let's say you use the current system of standards for pollution levels. And it was very bad because some people had succeeded in duping the authorities, and therefore had lots of trading rights. You will quickly learn whether or not they have the capability of going further at low cost because someone else will buy their rights. And you will discover those are the guys who can do it better, and you will learn about the technology they are using.
Mr. Hawkins: If you try to change it at that point, as a regulator you will be accused of disrupting the market and eliminating the incentives.
Mr. DiBona: You have to leave it in place, but not indefinitely. You have to say, this is something we're going to let run for 5 years, or 10 years to foster innovations. Because now I've got something I can sell. Not only can I use it myself to reduce my costs, but I can provide it to others. And I think that there's some evidence that the current system doesn't provide much innovation.
Mr. Hawkins: We're in favor of innovation. But the air pollution control area demonstrates just as many examples of scams, if not more, than of innovation.
I'll give you an example I worked on personally. A steel company persuaded the state of Michigan that reasonable control for dust from its plant was to water the dirt road. That was the regulatory benchmark. Then the company went out and did something truly innovative - it paved the road. That's the innovation for which they claimed all sorts of credit so they could take off controls on a steel-making furnace.
Everything that Charlie says about innovation using the regulatory benchmark approach is far truer about the approach that I am advocating, charging a fee for being permitted to pollute. If we want to try an incentive system, let's use what our economic system is based on: dollars.
Mr. DiBona, couldn't your arguments be used to suggest a system where there was no benchmark, there was just a charge for pollution?
Mr. DiBona: We have been advocates of fees in some areas. But fees can generate an immense revenue and that raises questions about whether you want the revenue effects or you want to use something like a marketable permit instead. Most fees are probably highly regressive and would tend to increase consumer costs in a particular industry. To the extent that the industry is in international competition, fees raise the cost of your goods relative to foreign produced goods.
The marketable permit system permits you to specify the amount of reduction because you've just issued that many permits to emit pollutants. Then let people trade them.
Mr. Hawkins: There are hybrid systems being considered that would auction allowances. One of the issuesabout the marketable permits system - in fact it's being raised about the acid rain proposal now - is who receives these allowances, and whether there are barriers to entry created because the allowances are initially allocated free of cost to existing polluters.
Mr. DiBona: You can structure them so it's not a problem. Auctions are a way of establishing value. But they're a problem because they may generate very large revenues.

GRAPHIC: Photos of David G. Hawkins of the Natural Resources Defense Council; and Charles J. DiBona of the American Petroleum Institute (NYT/George Tames)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: INTERVIEW

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (92%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL; AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (API)

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ACID RAIN (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); SMOG (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ALCOHOLS (71%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); 

PERSON: HAWKINS, DAVID G; DIBONA, CHARLES J; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



202 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2088 words

HEADLINE: Venture Capital Loses Its Vigor

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: MENLO PARK, Calif.

 BODY:
An air of serenity pervades 3000 Sand Hill Road, a campus-like cluster of office buildings that is the venture capital business's equivalent of Wall Street. More than 20 venture firms in plush offices here plot their next investments in Silicon Valley, a few miles to the south, hoping to pick the next Apple Computer or Genentech. At lunch, their partners congregate at the Sundeck, an airy restaurant in the center of the complex that serves ''venture burgers'' and puts pencils on the tables so customers can scribble the details of their deals on the placemats.
But looks can be deceiving. The venture capital business is anything but serene these days. Profits for venture capitalists have dropped sharply and a shakeout is now gathering momentum. And fundamental changes in the business raise questions about whether venture capital, the pilot light of America's high-technology world, can continue to ignite innovation.
Once a collegial business with a few dozen main firms, venture capital is now fiercely competitive. The high returns on venture capital early in the decade attracted a pile of capital and people to manage it. More than 650 firms now vie for a portion of a venture capital pool that has grown to $31 billion, up from only $3 billion a decade ago. Few venture capitalists today would dare discuss a deal at the Sundeck within earshot of their rivals. 
But with so much money to invest, the high profits of the past have become harder to achieve. ''The basic profitability of the venture business will, must, has declined,'' said William A. Sahlman, an associate professor at the Harvard Business School. ''For the first time in history, a large number of venture capitalists will lose money.''
Indeed, the most recent funds started by ''many big-name venture capital firms are under water,'' said Anthony Hoberman, senior vice president and head of venture capital investing at Alliance Capital Management in New York, which invests in venture funds and analyzes their returns for institutional investors.
A decline in returns, in fact, has caused the new money flowing into venture capital to drop significantly in 1988 the first time in several years, according to Venture Economics in Needham, Mass., which tracks industry trends. The downturn has continued in 1989.
Some companies like the General Electric Company and Paine Webber Inc. have sold off their venture units. Venture firms, especially young ones without much of a track record, are being turned away by institutional investors when they seek new funds. ''They said come back when you have something more tangible,'' said Tony Ellis of Pacific Venture Partners, a six-year-old firm here that has been unable to raise a second fund.
Of an estimated 140 venture firms trying to raise money ''80 will not be funded at all,'' predicted Harold Bigler Jr., chairman of Bigler/Crossroads in Farmington, Conn., which invests in venture firms on behalf of pension funds.
 
Short-sighted
 Some critics think venture capitalists already have too much money - one reason they argued against lowering the capital gains tax recently. Critics say the huge amount of money and pressure from institutional investors have made venture capitalists less venturesome and more short-term oriented, much like publicly traded companies that answer to Wall Street every quarter. Rather than invest small chunks of money to start companies, many put larger chunks in more mature companies, which are less risky and closer to going public, and in leveraged buyouts, which provide quicker, and often bigger, returns.
''It's getting more like the money management business,'' lamented Franklin (Pitch) Johnson Jr., a partner in the Asset Management Company of Palo Alto, Calif.
The danger, said his partner, John S. Shoch, is that ''if you have too much of a short-term focus, it will discourage you from doing important investments in companies with core technologies.''
Indeed, some leading high-technology venture capitalists like Brentwood Associates of Los Angeles and Adler & Company of New York now spend more time and money on leveraged buyouts. The venture unit of Continental Illinois recently decided to stop investing in new startups. And the recent leveraged buyout of Prime Computer was financed by J.H. Whitney, a venture firm.
The result, some say, is a paradox: Venture capitalists have more money than ever before but startups find it harder to find backing.
''The formula is dead and we don't know what's going to replace it yet,'' said Paul Saffo, a research fellow at the Institute for the Future, a consulting firm in Menlo Park.
This formula has been peculiarly an American phenomenon and dates back to just after World War II. In the late 50's, the American Research and Development Corporation in Boston plunked down about $60,000 to back a company being formed by a computer scientist from M.I.T. named Ken Olsen. About 12 years later, that investment in the Digital Equipment Corporation was worth more than $500 million.
Venture capitalists raise money for partnerships that generally last 10 years rom wealthy individuals and institutional investors like pension funds and insurance companies, who become limited partners of the fund.
The venture capitalists, who are the funds' general partners, invest the money, usually in return for a stake in small, privately held companies. A company usually requires several rounds of investment, and if it is succeeding, each round commands a higher price. Returns are realized when the company makes a public stock offering or is sold to a larger company. The general partners typically keep 20 percent of the gains and the limited partners get the rest.
Generally, one or two big winners that return 10 or 20 times the invested money compensate for the majority of the investments, which yield little or nothing. ''We're in the business of hitting home runs,'' said Andrew S. Rachleff, a partner at Merrill Pickard Anderson & Eyre in Palo Alto.
But the business has not always thrived. In the mid-1970's, venture capitalists found it difficult to raise money. In 1975, only $10 million in new money flowed into the field, according to Venture Economics.
Venture capital's boom years began in 1978, when the capital gains tax rate was reduced and rules that kept pension funds from investing in venture capital were relaxed. Money started flowing into venture capital in a big way. And with the personal computer industry just beginning and gene-splicing newly discovered, there were opportunities galore.
 
Frothy Returns
 Some would argue that the influx of capital enabled many companies to get financing they ill deserved. The funds financed more than 40 companies making disk drives and many look-alike personal computer companies. Although many ultimately crashed, but not before venture capitalists unloaded them at high multiples in the frothy initial public offering market of 1983. ''The stock market craziness of 1983 made a lot of venture capitalists look like geniuses,'' said Richard Shaffer, editor of the Technologic Computer Letter.
Returns may never be the same. Although funds started in the early 1980's have not completed their 10-year life, it is clear that returns of many will be 20 percent or less, compounded annually, and some will be negative. That compares with more than 30 percent for funds started in the late '70s. Many venture capitalists are ''sitting with a lot of puppies in their portfolios,'' said Jane Morris, vice president of Venture Economics. Puppies, she said, are emerging dogs.
Several factors have reduced returns. The market for initial public offerings cooled after 1983 and has been in the doldrums since the 1987 stock market crash, making it harder for venture capitalists to cash out.
New companies also take more capital. That is because industries have become more capital intensive and simply because money is available. Some computer startups have required tens of millions of dollars.
The higher the investment, the greater a success a company has to be to yield a return. And the greater the losses if it fails. Venture capitalists lost an estimated $500 million on failed mini-supercomputer makers.
But as returns have withered, so have venture capitalists' abilities to command big management fees of 2 to 2.5 percent of committed capital. That rate seemed reasonable when venture funds were $10 million, but many today are $100 million or more. Investors worry that venture funds will get rich on these fees and invest their money less carefully. ''One might question whether the motivation has swtiched from the venture capitalists making money from their participation in the profits to a fee-generation business,'' said Mr. Hoberman of Alliance.
 
Watchdogs
 Adding to the pressure on the venture capitalists is a new class of watchdog that has emerged to help pension funds and insurance companies place their venture capital. Almost half the new money flowing into venture funds now passes through about seven ''gatekeepers'' like Alliance and Bigler/Crossroads.
These advisers have already forced some venture firms to reduce their fees. And one gatekeeper, Brinson Partners, which until recently was a unit of the First Chicago Corporation, is leading an effort to impose standards for how venture firms should report interim results.
Gatekeepers also come under criticism for the commissions they earn and for drawing money into venture capital, adding to the excess. ''It's not clear what they contribute to the return on investment,'' said Donald T. Valentine, a general partner of Sequoia Capital in Menlo Park and an early backer of Apple Computer Inc.
 
Sticklers for Startups
 While some would-be entrepreneurs might be having trouble finding backers, money is still available for promising ideas, venture capitalists say. A core group of traditional funds, including Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield & Byers, Asset Management, the Mayfield Fund, Merrill Pickard and Sutter Hill Ventures, continues to finance young technology companies. Sequoia Capital reduced the size of its most recent fund to $60 million from $100 million in the previous fund to allow it to invest more carefully in startups, Mr. Valentine said. Bigger funds tend to invest in more mature companies that require larger amounts of capital to reduce the number of investments in their portfolio.
There are also alternatives to venture capital. Foreign companies, particularly Japanese, are investing in American startups at an increasing rate and are willing to pay what seems irrational amounts to American venture capitalists. Some of the most notable recent financings have come from Japanese companies, including Canon's $100 million investment in Steve Jobs's Next Inc. and Fujitsu's investment in Poqet Computer, which recently introduced a one-pound portable. C-Cube Microsystems, a new startup working on video circuits in Palo Alto, recently turned down venture capitalists for a better deal from Kubota, the Japanese tractor company.
Such seemingly cheap money come at a price. ''We're selling a lot of our technology,'' said Paul Wythes, a general partner at Sutter Hill.
The competition for technology, in fact, is one reason venture capitalists have sought new opportunities in areas like retailing and waste management, or certain geographic regions. ''The name of the game is to broaden the opportunity set,'' said Peter C. Wendell, general partner of Sierra Ventures in Menlo Park, which specializes in service businesses.
With funds in Taiwan and Singapore, Walden Capital in San Francisco is one of several that thinks opportunities are fresher abroad. Welsh Carson Anderson & Stowe in New York distinguishes itself by buying established companies and merging them together to create larger, more efficient ones.
Instead of waiting for entrepreneurs to come to them, some venture capitalists are going to the entrepreneurs. When new high-temperature superconductivity was discovered a few years ago, Mr. Shoch of Asset Management convinced leading scientists in the field to serve on the advisory board of a new company, Conductus Inc. He later recruited a president.
Venture capitalists say that with proper focus, they will be able to mine opportunities and provide returns that, while perhaps not as astronomical as in the past, will still exceed those of stocks and bonds. They say enough money should pour into venture capital to keep the innovation machine in motion.

GRAPHIC: Graph of flow of money to venture capital, 1978-1988 (Source: Venture Econmics) (pg. 1); photo of Vincent Tobkin, Peter Wendell and Jeffrey M. Drazan, partners of Sierra Ventures (NYT/Terrence McCarthy); pie charts of the sources of venture captial in 1983 and in 1988 (Source: Venture Economics) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (62%); GEC (LSE) (62%); GE (SWX) (62%); GE (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (62%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; VENTURE CAPITAL VENTURE CAPITAL (96%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); TRENDS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 



203 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: WHEN TRAGEDY LANDS IN COURT;
Put Limits on Death Compensation

BYLINE: By RANDAL R. CRAFT JR.; Randal R. Craft Jr. is a senior partner in the law firm of Haight, Gardner, Poor & Havens.

 BODY:
Much has been written recently about the adverse impact on American industry and society of skyrocketing verdicts (and settlements in fear of such verdicts) for personal injuries and deaths in tort cases.
One simple reform needs more consideration than it has received so far: In a lawsuit where compensatory damages for accidental death are being sought, monetary recovery should be given only for monetary injuries. In other words, monetary compensation should be awarded only for what can reasonably be compensated for by money. If anything more is to be awarded, it should be according to a schedule established legislatively. 
All too often, large jury verdicts include compensation for intangible non-economic injuries, like the decedent's pre-death fear or decedent's loss of enjoyment of life (hedonic damages) or for decedent's family's grief, anguish, mental distress, and loss of nurture, companionship and love. Without in any way questioning the significance of injuries, the fact is that money does not alleviate them.
If a defendant's negligence has caused an accidental death resulting in economic harm to plaintiffs in a case, then sufficient monetary compensation should be awarded to compensate for that harm. But the financial compensation for nonfinancial injuries should be eliminated or, at a minimum, strictly limited.
Some states, including New York, profess to follow this principle, but juries are frequently allowed to roam well beyond the constraints this principle should impose.
In death cases the application of this principle sometimes becomes confused by well-meaning observers who talk about ''the value of human life.'' Defendants cannot bring back the lost life or replace it, for human life is unique and its true value is not quantifiable. The real question in court is what is the proper amount of money to be awarded when a defendant's negligence causes an accidental death. This is not a question about the value of human life except in the sense that it is a question about the money value of life. In a case in which money is to be awarded to compensate for the loss of life, the law should require the jury to focus on how money can actually be used to compensate for that loss.
Obviously, neither a decedent nor the decedent's estate can use money to compensate for the decedent's pre-death pain and suffering or for the decedent's so-called loss of enjoyment of life. Money is also useless in making up for a decedent's family's genuine grief, loss of companionship, and so on.
Of course, confining monetary awards to just the amounts of monetary losses demonstrated by the plaintiffs can seem particularly harsh in a case involving the death of a child. Even here, however, the only thing that can be replaced is the financial loss that the child's family incurred as a result of the child's death. If there is no financial loss, then financial compensation is inappropriate.
My wife and I lost our first child, a newborn just a few days old. We will never get over it. We had some serious doubts about the medical care, but we did not pursue the matter because there was no point in it. Any money we could have obtained through a malpractice award might have improved our creature comforts, but it would not have compensated us for what we lost or for our grief. Court judgments and money awards are not the answer to everything.
Another reason why juries and judges should not be permitted to make financial awards for intangible non-economic losses is that the law does not and cannot give juries and judges any legal principles or other useful yardsticks to determine how to evaluate these losses. Faced with the necessity of making such evaluations, juries and even judges become unguided missiles. They operate with vague instructions, insufficient standards and no limitations. The closest thing to guidance that they have is the last verdict that they read about in the newspaper, not realizing that in that case the facts were completely different or that the court later set aside or reduced the verdict. In this connection, it should be pointed out that judicial review is hardly sufficient protection against excessive verdicts, for the judges themselves have little to guide them.
Accordingly, awards for intangible non-economic damages are particularly susceptible to a jury's natural and understandable sympathy for the decedent's family. The result can be extremely high verdicts - windfalls beyond any rational connection with compensation for the plaintiffs.
Society at large obviously bears the burden of such windfalls. Legislatures and judges alike should take steps to prevent these windfalls. In death cases, the law should allow juries to award money as compensation only for what can reasonably be compensated for by money.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FINANCES LITIGATION (91%); VERDICTS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); PERSONAL INJURY (90%); TORTS (90%); DAMAGES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); NEGLIGENCE (89%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); CHILDREN (61%); 

PERSON: CRAFT, RANDAL R JR



204 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL FINANCE;
A Helping Hand on Reverse Mortgages

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD; Carole Gould writes about personal finance topics from New York.

 BODY:
A pilot program run by the Federal Housing Administration that could spur the use of reverse mortgages is just now getting under way around the country.
Reverse mortgages are taken out mainly by older borrowers eager to tap the unused equity in their homes. These homeowners, who are cash-poor but house-rich with a small mortgage or none at all, put up their home as collateral, receiving regular payments from the lender for a fixed term or for the rest of their life. The loan is repaid, along with accrued interest, in a lump sum at the end of the fixed term or when the borrower moves, sells or dies. Reverse mortgages can be more attractive than traditional ones because eligibility is based on the amount of equity, rather than income. 
But thrticipating lenders, said Judith V. May, a policy analysis officer in Washington with the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the F.H.A.'s parent agency.
In late summer, final regulations were issued and applications are now being accepted. The F.H.A. is authorized to insure 2,500 mortgages, but legislation is before Congress to raise that number to 25,000. The bill is supported by Jack F. Kemp, the Housing Secretary, and action on the measure could come early next year.
The program would reduce or eliminate much of the risk to lenders and borrowers. Nonetheless, a reverse mortgage should not be the only solution considered by older homeowners in need of cash, Mr. Scholen cautioned. Check other sources of help for the elderly by contacting your local Social Security office and state Office for the Aging.
You should also consider other ways to use your house to raise money or to cut expenses. Carve out a rental apartment in your house - assuming local zoning laws permit that - or simply take in a roommate. You may also want to think about moving to a smaller, less expensive home, perhaps pocketing a handsome profit from the sale. (Generally, those 55 years of age and older can escape capital gains tax on the first $125,000 of profit from the sale of a primary residence.) In addition, look into property tax and loan deferral programs offered by city, county or state housing agencies. In 16 states, including Connecticut but not New York or New Jersey, the property taxes of older homeowners may be put off until the property is sold or the owner dies. Other local government agencies offer similar programs for loans they issue that are used to make home repairs. Interest on such loans, if any, is likely to be below market rates. If these other options still are not enough, consider the reverse mortgage. Because of hefty up-front fees, conventional reverse mortgages available privately and through the F.H.A. program - those that are not repaid until the borrower dies, moves or sells - are very costly in the short run and generally should not be used if the borrower anticipates moving within three or four years. A less costly alternative is a fixed-term reverse mortgage that is uninsured. (Even without insurance, the risks are not that large, some experts say. Steep penalties built into the private programs make it economically unlikely for lenders to default, and none have, the experts note.) Of course, the real cost of a conventional reverse mortgage goes down over time as the up-front expenses are amortized. In fact, if you remain in your home beyond your actuarial life expectancy, you can end up with a bargain, assuming your home's value appreciates only modestly.
That is because all of the mortgages currently available are non-recourse loans; that is, you cannot ultimately owe more than what your home is worth, regardless of how many payments you receive from the lender. The lender cannot seek repayment from your other assets or your heirs.
The loans differ in a variety of ways besides the cost in up-front fees, so potential borrowers should be prepared to do their homework. Interest rates vary, as do many other loan terms. Most, but not all, of the reverse mortgages written so far, for example, have a ''shared appreciation'' feature; this is optional for the Government-insured loans. The lender takes a stated percentage of any increase in the value of the property when the loan is due. The greater the percentage given to the lender, the higher your monthly payment can be. But that will leave you, or your heirs, with less when the loan is finally paid.
Another key factor to consider is the size of the monthly payment you want. In general, borrowers can receive higher monthly payments from private lenders than they would through the F.H.A. program. This reflects the more optimistic view that private lenders have of how much homes will appreciate. Moreover, the F.H.A.-insured loans are based on a maximum of $101,250 of equity even if the house is worth more, a cap that does not apply to other loans. The difference can be dramatic. A 75-year-old borrower with a $200,000 home, for example, would receive no more than about $360 per month from a Government-insured loan. But the same borrower could get about $1,000 a month from a private lender outside the program.
Government-insured loans have other advantages, however, including flexibility. Borrowers who have sufficient funds to cover living expenses, for example, may opt for a line of credit rather than monthly payments. In the private sector, lines of credit so far are available only in conjunction with monthly payment plans.
The payments received from a reverse mortgage are not taxable, because they are considered a loan. They will also not affect eligibility for Medicare or Social Security, but they may affect Supplemental Security Income or Medicaid payments, because those programs are based on need.
To qualify for the F.H.A. program, borrowers must be 62 years of age or older and meet with an F.H.A.-certified counselor to discuss the program as well as other financial options.
For the names of local lenders participating in the Government-insured program, call 800 245-2691. For a comprehensive list of public-sector and private lenders, send a self-addressed, stamped, business-size envelope to: The National Center for Home Equity Conversion, 348 West Main Street, Marshall, Minn. 56258.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Drawing

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION (FHA)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES REVERSE MORTGAGES (95%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (94%); LEGISLATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ZONING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); TAX LAW (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); ELDER HEALTH (70%); AGING (69%); CITIES (68%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (66%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE



205 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: TV's Future

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In the debate on ''Tomorrow's Television'' (Business Forum, Sept. 17), the suggestion by Michael Borrus and Jeffrey A. Hart that niche markets may be the smoother, more profitable path for HDTV will likely become clearer as we move farther along that road.
As we grapple with the conceptual basis of TV's future, we should anticipate drifting into a thriving, hybrid marriage of microcomputer functions with conventional TV uses (we can call it PCTV). In contrast, our push for a national policy to foster an HDTV broadcast standard is misguided. It would inevitably bring second-rate technology. But it is more than bad policy: it is fruitless. 
Contrary to conventional wisdom, HDTV cannot be economically launched via existing commercial broadcast in the United States for several reasons. There is no additional spectrum available to allocate for the 50 percent to 100 percent increase in band width necessary for HDTV as an augmented broadcast format. No legislative, regulatory or judicial relief is likely available for simulcasting on additional channels by current commercial broadcasters. And if it were, we would face the ''chicken and egg'' failure. Neither a consumer market to buy $50 billion worth of new TV sets nor a commercial market to finance $25 billion in transmission for broadcasting can exist without the other being developed first.
We should realize, as Mr. Borrus and Mr. Hart do, that aggregates of various unfettered markets can drive a pervasive new high-resolution technology by combining the following niches - direct-broadcast satellite and cable television; video disks and cassettes; a variety of CD video formats; microcomputers and videogames; fiber-optic phones, data networks and videotex.
All of these formats may ultimately be dependent upon cheap and powerful computer-driven TV's. That realization can shape a truly creative American resolution to the challenges of our rapidly changing media environment.
 
GLENN RALSTON
Indianapolis, Sept. 20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (70%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ARTE FRANCE SA (85%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (73%); FIBER OPTICS (65%); 

PERSON: RALSTON, GLENN



206 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEW IN VENDING MACHINES;
Sustaining Sales by Improving Convenience

BYLINE: By JACK STEINBERG

 BODY:
Taken a good look at your favorite vending machine lately?
Chances are, it is a more sophisticated piece of equipment than its predecessor of even three years ago. Technological innovations have opened up tantalizing new opportunities for the nation's 8,000 or so vending operators, which contract with building owners to place and service machines on their property. 
Paper-money acceptors mounted on many machines have turned people without change into patrons. A new method of packaging food to increase its shelf life has opened up the range of possibilities for the machines. And more sophisticated refrigerated dispensing units are enabling operators to go beyond basic sandwiches to offer cold platters and other fresh entrees at ever higher prices.
The vending business, that symbol of America's perpetual quest for convenience, is on a roll. In 1988, Americans dropped $22.6 billion into the dispensers, double what they spent in 1978, according to Vending Times, a trade journal. ''It isn't a fad anymore,'' said Victor Lavay, its executive publisher. ''It's an integral part of the economy.''
Traditionally resistant to any sort of technological change, the mom-and-pop operators who dominate the business have not innovated entirely by choice. Vendors were forced to broaden their selections to include popular fruit juices and health snack bars and to find new ways to peddle food to offset declines in their core cigarette business. Concerns over lung cancer and legislative efforts to ban smoking in public places have caused machine sales of cigarettes to drop by half since the late 1970's, to $1.6 billion last year, according to Mark Dlugoss, editor of the American Automatic Merchandiser, a trade journal. The category now accounts for only 8 percent of industry sales, down from 27 percent in the late 1970's.
Food has more than compensated for the loss, but may not be able to sustain the current clip of sales growth for long. People simply don't carry enough change to pay the higher prices asked these days. And not all operators can afford to install dollar changers. To cope, the industry is putting its weight behind a proposal to mint a new dollar coin. Plastic charge cards may also have their place.

GRAPHIC: Graph of vending machine sales, 1979-1988; pie charts of what people bought from vending machines in 1978 and in 1988 (Sources: American Automatic Merchandiser, Vending Today)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: VENDING MACHINES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS PRODUCT INNOVATION (90%); VENDING MACHINES (90%); VENDING MACHINE OPERATORS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); FOOD PACKAGING (76%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (76%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (72%); SMOKING (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); LUNG CANCER (64%); TOBACCO MFG (64%); CANCER (50%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (50%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACK



207 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: The Hospital Workers Are The Envy of Labor Now

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

 BODY:
WITH a sophisticated strategy that even its opponents agree was carried out to near perfection, New York City's major health-care workers' union gained a victory last week that many experts say provides the nation's labor movement with a badly needed ray of hope.
The accomplishment, a contract that includes wage increases of about 21 percent over the next three years for about 50,000 members, re-establishes Local 1199 of the Drug, Hospital and Health Care Workers in the front ranks of American labor. The union has long been known for its organizational ability and activism, but had recently seemed to be falling apart.
''All the groups that have gone out to organize in the service sector - the teamsters, the various government employee unions and others - have always seen 1199 as something of a pacesetter, even when they saw it as a rival,'' said David Montgomery, a professor of history specializing in labor studies at Yale University. 
While not a sign that the ''union movement has re-entered any period of great growth,'' Mr. Montgomery sai unions in the service sector, with ''an example of cohesivenss and lends a sense of direction.''
The workers covered by the accord include nurses aides, pharmacists, orderlies, and laboratory technicians, whose average annual salary is about $18,000.
Labor economists and historians say the hospital union's contract settlement, achieved just before dawn Wednesday after months of intense politicking and mostly fruitless negotiations with the city's private hospitals, was only the second settlement in recent years that labor can point to as an unabashed success.
''The only place a union has gotten a similar deal is the Harvard workers,'' said Richard B. Freeman, a professor of economics at Harvard University, referring to an agreement last June under which the university's clerical and technical workers received an average raise of 32 percent over three years. ''Things have been so bleak in the labor movement,'' he said, that union organizers ''must feel like a sports team that has really been taking a beating and has finally scored a run.''
Local 1199's contract was the product of a campaign of old-fashioned organizing and astute lobbying, begun last winter and sustained throughout the year.
A clear sign of the union's renewed vigor came last April when it brought more than 12,000 people to Albany to demonstrate, along with hospital management, against proposed state Medicaid cuts. In an even more impressive feat, a telegram with 200,000 signatures from workers, patients, doctors and others was delivered to the office of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. Albany quickly relented, eliminating many cutbacks.
Local 1199 then turned its attentions to New York City, where politicians during the recent primary election campaign seemed to fall over themselves to support a union that had shown it could do so much so quickly.
With memories of steep wage losses still fresh in the minds of workers who suffered through the union's ineffective 47-day strike in 1984, leaders of Local 1199 knew that threatening a strike this year carried as much risk for the union as it did for the hospitals.
''We went into those negotiations with a paper sword and just got cut up,'' said Moe Foner, a longtime force in the union, referring to 1984. ''We were determined to go into this year's talks showing a different face.''
 
Surprising Enthusiasm
To gauge the workers' fervor while turning up the heat on the hospitals, Dennis Rivera, the union's newly elected president, devised a plan of abbreviated job actions: three strikes of one, two and three days carried out over the summer. Enthusiasm among the workers surprised even the organizers and local politicians, including the Democratic mayoral candidate, David N. Dinkins, who strongly supported the union and has its active support in his campaign.
In July, John Cardinal O'Connor brokered a contract with the union calling for two annual wage increases of 8.5 percent at four hospitals of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York. The union used the Cardinal's generous terms against the other hospitals to great effect with a slogan: ''If the Catholics can pay it, why can't some of the world's greatest medical centers?''
Over the next two months, with the discreet assistance of state officials anxious to avoid the disruption of hospital care that any strike would bring, the union was able to chip away at the united front of the hospitals.
First, three financially troubled hospitals, which depend on special state assistance, signed separate contracts similar to the Catholic hospitals' agreement.
On the eve of last week's strike deadline, the financially weakest of the city's major teaching hospitals, Presbyterian Hospital, also settled separately. And as the threatened walkout approached, one hospital after another, sensing that industry negotiations were going nowhere, signaled their willingness to settle, too.
In addition to its clever tactics, labor experts say that Local 1199, like the Harvard workers' union, was helped immeasurably by the fact that its opponents were in a nonprofit, nonmanufacturing business.
These analysts caution that for all of the tonic effect on the labor movement of the settlement, similar victories will not automatically begin to proliferate.
''They were not bargaining against a Frank Lorenzo,'' said Mr. Freeman of Harvard, referring to the airline takeover specialist. ''In other industries the company can look you in the face and say, 'Fine, with wage demands like that we can make a lot more money in Korea or Mexico' - and they would not be bluffing.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Dennis Rivera (NYT/CHester Higgins Jr.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRUG, HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE EMPLOYEES UNION

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CONTRACTS; HOSPITALS; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR LABOR UNIONS (93%); HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); HISTORY (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W



208 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
How New York City Is Trying to Keep Its Numbers High

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
FEARING the loss of millions of dollars and of incalculable political power as the result of another undercount in the Federal census, New York City officials have begun mapping the demographic terrain over which they will have to travel to insure that the most invisible and reluctant New Yorkers are enumerated next year.
Those most in need of the money and influence that can flow from a full census count are, in many cases, the very people who are least likely to be counted. They are people who are hard to track down or unwilling to cooperate with any government official for fear that information they provide will be used to punish them.
''How is it that we can instill in people a sense of trust in government?'' asked Diane Mulcahy Coffey, the city's census coordinator and chief of staff to Mayor Edward I. Koch. 
For New York City, the stakes are high. In 1980, city officials contend, the Census Bureau undercounted the city's population by about 6 percent, or some 450,000 people.
''We lost one member of Congress,'' Mr. Koch said. ''We lost about three Assembly members and one state senator from the City of New York.'' Moreover, he said, ''Most of the major formulas in Federal and state legislation relate to population. The last time we went through this, we estimated that as a result of the undercount, we're losing at the rate of $20 million a year.''
Now, the city is preparing an extensive public information campaign, which city officials say will be much larger than the limited one the city ran in 1980.
''This time, we will do everything possible to insure that the program is far reaching, hits as many people as possible - particularly those hard-to-count areas - and to insure that the data are confidential,'' Ms. Coffey said. ''We are targeting specific populations with messages. These include tenants who are doubled up illegally in public and private housing, persons who receive public assistance and fear a reduction in benefits if their census response is at odds with information they have previously provided to city or state agencies and undocumented immigrants who - as you can imagine - may strive to avoid any contact with the government, particularly the Census Bureau, for fear that they will be deported.''
 
Different Messages
The messages have not yet been devised, although the city plans to use newspapers, radio, television and other media to get them across. The director for the city's $1.5 million census project, Roberta Lentz, said, ''In some cases, it may be a subway campaign in Chinese or a community-based campaign in the schools.''
But first, of course, the people who need to be reached must be found.
The city is already at work on a ''site inventory'' for a special count of some of New York's homeless population that is to be made by the Census Bureau next March, just before April 1 when the census will be taken across the country. As described by Ms. Coffey, the inventory ''contains the addresses of every street and shelter location where the Census Bureau can expect to find homeless persons.'' The first part of the inventory will be sent to the bureau later this month.
Another piece of groundwork is a map prepared by the City Planning Department that shows, by community board district, the location of households characterized by factors that can lead to an undercount: ''social and economic distress,'' insufficient proficiency in English or comprehension of the census and frequent change of address.
Together with more detailed neighborhood findings, the map will help the city plan its public-relations effort, although the number of factors in an area does not necessarily indicate the severity of the problem. ''If an area has just one factor, and that happens to be English-language proficiency, that might be much more complex than an area with all three factors,'' Ms. Lentz said. ''That map is the basis of our planning. But it does not indicate a strategy right now.''
 
Measuring Households
''Distress'' was determined by a low percentage of men in the work force and a hiercentage of households on public assistance. English proficiency problems were indicated by a high percentage of foreign-born people who have recently arrived in the United States. And frequent address changes were indicated by a high percentage of nonfamily households headed by someone under the age of 65 and a high percentage of people who moved after 1975.
City planners relate these factors to instances of undercounting: census questionnaires that never reached given households, questionnaires that were not returned or questionnaires that were returned without an accounting of all the people in the household. To bring their findings up to date, planners also used recent data on immigration, on recipients of aid to dependent children, on births to foreign-born mothers and on births out of wedlock.
City officials were pleased last July when, on the verge of a trial in Federal court on a suit brought by New York City and other local governments and groups, the Census Bureau announced that it. Koch said, ''when they had the census, everybody had to go back to their hometown. You may read about it in the New Testament. I was thinking of issuing an order that everybody had to report to City Hall and that I would personally count them.''

GRAPHIC: drawing; map of New York City

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POPULATION CENSUS (93%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEPORTATION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W



209 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
Time for Straight Talk

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
This is the time of year, the High Holy Days, when Jews are supposed to look into themselves, reflect on what has been and commit themselves to what should be. In 1989 it should be a time also for honest thinking about the future of Israel.
Prime Minister Shamir and his Likud colleagues have just said no to a gentle suggestion by President Mubarak of Egypt on how to get a peace process going. Their no told us as clearly as anything has where Israel is heading under its present leadership. Ten or twenty years from now, if it stays on that path, it will be this kind of country:
* It will be a Jewish state in which Arabs make up nearly half the population and will soon be more than half. Jews will maintain political control because Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza have no vote or other political rights. 
* It will be a garrison state. The only way to retain control over the occupied territories will be by increasing military force and increasing abandonment of the rule of civilized law.
* It will be a brutalized state. Imprisoning Palestinians by the thousands without trial, deporting them without evidence, shooting children -all this and more will have become part of normal life.
* It will be an isolated state. The one link to Israel's Arab neighbors, the treaty with Egypt, will have frayed or broken by then. And some of the isolation will be self-imposed: Israelis who even talk with Palestinian leaders will be imprisoned.
* It will be a dependent state. Dependence on United States aid for economic existence, which grew during the 1980's, will by now be overwhelming - if American taxpayers are still willing to bear the heavy burden.
That future is a necessary consequence of the choice that Prime Minister Shamir and his Government have made. They chose the status quo - indefinitely. Even though President Mubarak leaned way over backward to please Mr. Shamir, the idea that Israeli and Palestinian delegates meet in Cairo was rejected because it might conceivably lead to a change in the status quo. It might develop movement toward Palestinian rights.
The talks in Cairo would only have been to flesh out a proposal made by Mr. Shamir himself: for Palestinians in the occupied territories to elect representatives who would negotiate with Israel. Some doubted Mr. Shamir's sincerity when he came up with the idea on May 14. I did not, but I see no reason now to think he was serious.
After rejecting the Mubarak invitation, Mr. Shamir said there could still be other ideas to follow up. But such talk is a familiar tactic. It is designed to create an illusion of hope that covers the reality of Mr. Shamir's determination to do nothing.
Clarity is the one gain from the decision in Jerusalem. It is clear now where responsibility rests for the lack of progress toward peace in the Middle East. It rests on the Government of Israel.
Objectively, the prospects for peace have never been brighter. Palestinians have found a voice at last for negotiation and compromise. The P.L.O. has recognized Israel and, in the many months since that historic decision, refrained from terrorism. But the Government of Israel says no.
The clarity of the situation has con-sequences in the United States. It requires a response from American Jews and from the American Government.
The Jewish community in this country is concerned about where Israel is heading. Many American Jews, probably most, are opposed to the Shamir policy of holding on to the West Bank and Gaza forever by force, with all the self-brutalizing consequences.
But the voice of the community is muted. The major Jewish organizations do not speak out critically about the Shamir policy. They do not say what many believe: that the rejection of President Mubarak, the refusal to talk with Palestinians are steps that threaten the future of Israel.
The reluctance is understandable. The Jewish organizations have to work with the Israeli Government that is. Their constituents worry about anything that looks disloyal.
But when the life and character of Israel are at stake, those are not adequate excuses. Honesty is required.
President Bush and Secretary of State Baker have muted their voices, too. They worry about the short-term political risks of openly disagreeing with an Israeli Government. But in the longer term, they must know, Americans will become restless about supporting an Israel that rejects the chance of peace. It is in the true interest of Israel for the United States to speak out about the danger of an isolated, embattled future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

TICKER: SHMR (TASE) (85%); SHMR (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (85%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (88%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: SHAMIR OPTICAL INDUSTRY LTD (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL, STATE OF; EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: PEACE JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY HOSNI MUBARAK (76%); 



210 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Try Drug Legalization On Experimental Scale

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A. M. Rosenthal gave me pause with his column titled ''The Case for Slavery'' (Sept. 26). Despite the weighted analogy to slavery, Mr. Rosenthal makes some valid points regarding the dangers lurking in legalization of drugs. 
Nevertheless, in conversations I had with some reputable church leaders in Bolivia some months ago, I heard a clear call for legalization in this country as the only sure hope of mitigating the effects of drug cartels in that country.
One highly placed churchman insisted in the strongest terms that nothing short of legalization would undercut the enormous profits from the drug trade, which signify a parallel economy in Bolivia (as well as in Peru and Colombia). I was told that Bolivia's earnings from foreign trade amounted to $400 million, while the intake from drugs came to $700 million in the same year.
With President Bush and our drug czar, William J. Bennett, offering platitudes, money and failed policies as remedies for the crisis, would it not be instructive at least to try legalization. This might be done in one or two places by way of experiment to test the facile conclusions that one hears on both sides of this untried remedy.
 
(Rev.) JOSEPH NANGLE
 Silver Spring, Md., Sept. 27, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: BOLIVIA (94%); PERU (79%); UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); CARTELS (70%); RELIGION (56%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (54%); 

PERSON: NANGLE, JOSEPH (REV) GEORGE WALKER BUSH (56%); 



211 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Economic Forces That Knock Down The Oldest Forests

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: SEATTLE

 BODY:
ONE hundred years ago, John Muir, the pioneer naturalist, rhapsodized about the ancient forests of the Pacific Northwest and warned that the carpet of greenery stretching from the Cascade Mountains to the Pacific Ocean might one day shrink to a few small patches.
Muir's cautionary words were being tested in the woods of Washington State this month while in the other Washington Congress grappled with a short-term settlement of the fight over logging in what remains of the nation's virgin forests.
A compromise was approved by Congress last week after a year of court fights and political squabbling and is expected to be signed by President Bush. It will impose a yearlong prohibition of lawsuits aimed at protecting the spotted owl, a bird whose existence is said to be threatened by heavy logging in the national forests. Such suits have held up most logging in important old-growth areas. In turn, the Forest Service has agreed to protect certain forests that had been scheduled for clear-cutting - essentially doing, for one year, what conservationists had been asking the courts to do. But both sides said the temporary settlement was no more than a Band-Aid. Representative Les AuCoin, Democrat of Oregon, said the contending parties have bought one year to come up with a permanent solution. 
For two decades, foresters have been warning logging companies that they cannot keep cutting old-growth timber at the present rate and expect to have any giant trees left early in the next century. What is needed, they say, is to switch from logging the irreplaceable evergreens to an industry based on second-growth trees, like those grown on the Weyerhaeuser Company's six million acres of tree farms.
But the logging industry, primarily in Oregon, the main timber-producing state, has been slow to change. Industry spokesmen say that if companies cannot cut the remaining big trees in public forests, 5,000 to 30,000 jobs will be lost. Economists say that the country's lumber needs can be met without harvesting the centuries-old Western red cedars and Douglas firs.
Last year, for example, a record one out of every four logs from the West Coast, including old-growth and tree-farmed logs, was exported. Weyerhaeuser, the world's largest timber company, temporarily shut down some logging operations this month because it has a surplus of wood stockpiled for export. Japan, the prime consumer of raw logs from the Pacific Northwest, is glutted with American timber.
Meanwhile, the owners of dozens of small sawmills in Washington and Oregon cannot afford available timber at current prices, and they are fighting environmentalists over the right to cut down large stands of old-growth trees. The last independent sawmill at Coos Bay, Ore., recently shut down because it could not pay the going price for the available logs, while the port was stuffed with timber for export from a nearby Weyerhaeuser tree farm.
 
Japan Pays Double
Prices have stayed high despite the glut in Japan, where buyers are paying up to $600 per thousand board feet, twice what American mill owners are accustomed to paying for raw logs. Even in a glut, forest owners can afford not to sell at lower prices but to wait for premium prices. The foreign buyers have nowhere else to go for prime Douglas fir logs. The United States and Chile are the only countries that export raw logs on a large scale. Canada permits log exports only when domestic mills have all they need.
Priced out of the state and private timber markets in their own region, owners of small mills in the Northwest have pressured the Forest Service to allow them to cut more trees from Federal land, from which raw-log exports are prohibited.
What is at issue in the old-growth debate, then, is a regional economy based on cutting the oldest and biggest trees on public land, the last 1 percent of America's original forest cover. Of the two million to three million acres of untouched old-growth trees left in the country - all in the Northwest - about 60,000 acres a year on Federal land are being cut to keep alive the region's small timber towns, which have had double-digit unemployment rates even during the best of times.
The fight over these forests has intensified as acreage shrinks. In 1938 loggers and the Forest Service objected when President Roosevelt established the Olympic National Park, an emerald sanctuary that has become one of the five most-visited national parks. ''If the exploiters are permitted to have their way with the Olympic Peninsula, all that will be left will be the outraged squeal of future generations over the loss of another national treasure,'' Harold Ickes, Roosevelt's Interior Secretary, said at the time.
Since then, all but 90,000 acres of the 600,000-acre Olympic National Forest have been cut. Most of the land has been replanted, but it will never resemble the forest that preceeded it. Now experts say that at the present rate of old-growth cutting throughout the Northwest, most of the remaining towering trees of original forest will be eliminated in a generation. Lou Gold, an Oregon environmentalist, calls the old-growth logging campaign ''the last great buffalo hunt.''

GRAPHIC: photo of clear-cutting in Olympic National Forest in Washington (Matrix/Dan Lamont)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WY (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322130 PAPERBOARD MILLS (84%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (84%); NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS113310 LOGGING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%); NORTHWEST USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WEYERHAEUSER CO (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PUBLIC PROPERTY FORESTS & WOODLANDS (93%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (91%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (89%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); SAW MILLS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BIRDS (74%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (73%); LITIGATION (71%); APPROVALS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LAYOFFS (63%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (61%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (50%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 



212 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: The Tax Breaks America Couldn't Give Up

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE brief experiment in tax reform seems to be coming to an end. The three-year-old law, the dream of generations of academic experts, has fallen victim to political reality - a new President who wants to use the tax code to meet economic and social goals, powerful interests that lobby for favorable tax treatment and Americans' pervasive conviction that they are overtaxed.
The Senate last week put off voting on major tax proposals as well as other budget-related issues, like expanding Federal support for child care. But as Congress continued working toward an Oct. 16 budget deadline, the odds appeared strong, following a lopsided vote in the House last month and assiduous nose-counting in the Senate last week, that some form of cut in the capital gains tax would be approved before the year is out. That action would dismantle the delicate balance of the 1986 tax law. Along the way, other tax changes may be approved as well. 
Economists say that not enough data are available to tell whether the tax experiment succeeded in making the system fairer and more economically efficient. What is clear is that President Bush pulled the thread that could result in the unraveling of the fabric of the 1986 law, unless the mood in Congress changes unexpectedly.
Under the Tax Reform Act of 1986, tax rates were sharply reduced at all levels of income, and deductions and other breaks that had been written into the tax code one after another for years were eliminated or curtailed. The law was the product of dozens of carefully drawn political and economic bargains.
A central compromise was that in return for cutting the tax rate of the wealthiest Americans nearly in half, to 28 percent from 50 percent, capital gains would be taxed at the same higher level as other income. Capital gains are the profits from the sale of investments like stocks, bonds and real estate, and are realized mostly by the affluent. Ronald Reagan made enactment of the tax law the top domestic priority of his second term, and his personal influence outweighed the political forces working against it. Mr. Reagan maintained that market forces, not the tax code, should be the determining factor in how economic resources are allocated.
But George Bush was never enthusiastic about the measure. As Vice President, he pressed unsuccessfully to retain tax breaks for the oil and gas industry. And in his Presidential campaign last year, he advocated, among other tax breaks, a lower capital gains rate and deductions for child-care costs, college tuition and other expenses.
This year, the President has pushed Congress harder on this issue than on any other. With Senate leaders of both parties struggling for some kind of agreement that would let them pass the budget bill without becoming embroiled in an extended debate over capital gains, Mr. Bush went to the Capitol Friday and told the senators that reducing the capital gains tax was ''not an extraneous matter with me.''
Economists say that most people and businesses learned to accommodate themselves to the loss of tax breaks. A benefit of taxing capital gains at a lower rate than other income, proponents say, is that it increases investment in business start-ups. But in 1987, the first year the capital gains tax break was ended, more money was put in such investments than ever before. Individual retirement accounts, which were limited by the 1986 law, supposedly encouraged people to save. But the rate of personal saving, after declining in 1987, rose again in 1988 to where it was before the law was changed.
Nonetheless, the pressure to regain old tax breaks simmered quietly among corporations and industry associations. And President Bush's vigorous advocacy of reducing the capital gains tax had the effect of turning up the heat.
Democrats responded to the Bush plan with a proposal to restore tax-deductible I.R.A.'s to all working Americans, a measure which, like a capital gains cut, would largely benefit the affluent. Timber interests, which have strong influence in many Southern and Western states, also began pressing their case for tax advantages.
The Senate Finance Committee met until well past midnight Tuesday and approved tax breaks for producers of a grain-based gasoline additive, pineapple growers, millionaire grandparents, liquor stores, cattle raisers, investors in low-income housing, tuxedo rental companies and many others.
Many of those special provisions were adopted so one senator or another could please a particular constituent, and it was generally accepted that those would be stricken from the legislation before it became law. But some provisions were approved with serious intent and were considered likely to remain. Dozens of lobbyists who waited outside the Finance Committee room, the same ones who fought tooth and nail against the 1986 law, had looks of satisfaction when they finally went home at about 2 A.M. Wednesday morning.
Paradoxically, some of the lawmakers and political operatives who were most responsible for putting the tax compromises together three years ago are the ones now involved in tearing them apart. They include Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee; Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee; Richard G. Darman, Mr. Bush's budget director, who was Deputy Secretary of the Treasury in 1986, and Bill Diefenderfer, who was Senator Packwood's chief of staff then and is now Mr. Darman's deputy.
Politics, not tax policy, is central to the thinking of these men. And after the capital gains issue arose, pressure rose quickly for other changes. ''People who want a tax break will push it to the hilt,'' said David H. Brockway, former staff director of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. ''No one ever comes up and says, 'Raise my taxes.' ''
The House Speaker, Representative Thomas S. Foley, would like to leave the tax law untouched, but says he cannot win that fight, in part because the argument that mostly rich people would benefit from a particular tax break carries little weight nowadays.
''You don't hear the $8,000 restaurant worker say, 'I'm faxing my views up to you,' '' he said. Taxpayers do not care if Donald Trump gets a $25,000 tax cut, Mr. Foley said, as long as they get $10 in the bargain.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX REFORM ACT OF 1986; FEDERAL TAXES (US); CAPITAL GAINS TAX TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX LAW (97%); TAX REFORM (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CHILD CARE (70%); BONDS (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 



213 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: The Panama Jinx;
What Should Washington Do About Noriega?

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AFTER Washington stops arguing about the extent to which President Bush fumbled last week's attempt by Panamanian troops to oust Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, the Administration will have to think about where American policy goes from here.
The failed coup leaves the Administration with even more limited options in Panama than before, and not one is appealing.
The most obvious way for Mr. Bush to get rid of General Noriega quickly and dispel criticism that he missed an opportunity last week would be to order an old-fashioned military operation. Conservatives like Elliott Abrams criticize him for an unwillingness to topple General Noriega with force. But that would risk American casualties and hostages, a domestic political backlash, Latin American censure and perhaps failure. 
''Removing Noriega by force is a ridiculous idea,'' said Robert A. Pastor, a Carter Administration official who is an expert on the region. ''If we failed, we'd be humiliated, and if we succeeded, even our closest friends in Latin America would condemn us. We could be faced with a hostile new regime or find ourselves compelled to support a regime through military occupation.''
Mr. Bush could improve his management of crises and hope the Panamanian military organizes a new coup, one more to Washington's liking. But the combination of the American decision not to intervene and General Noriega's most recent repression make it questionable that the United States will be given another chance, at least any time soon.
Perhaps President Bush could take another tack altogether, distancing himself from the failed policy he inherited from the Reagan Administration. His predecessor turned to economic and diplomatic sanctions, assuming they would quickly force General Noriega from power. This did not work, and for a long time some analysts have recommended that Mr. Bush begin to regard General Noriega as someone the United States may have to live with.
But switching to such a policy would incense American conservatives and send a signal to Latin America that Mr. Bush has backed down on promises to do whatever is needed to fight the hemisphere's drug trade.
As part of a long-term approach, Mr. Bush could assert that any coup by Panama's military, which for decades has had a reputation for corruption and ruthlessness, would not necessarily usher in a democratic regime. After the coup last week, the Administration said that it hung back partly because the rebels were less interested in democracy and bringing General Noriega to justice than in grabbing power for themselves.
Some experts say Mr. Bush should recognize that what is at stake in Panama is not a strategic prize, but the image of the United States as a great power. While American conservatives point to the Panama Canal and American listening posts and military bases in Panama as evidence of its importance, some analysts like Mr. Pastor argue that these things have largely lost their strategic value, particularly in an era of waning East-West tensions. The Pentagon, anticipating the transfer of the canal from American to Panamanian control a decade from now, is planning to relocate its ground-command operations for Latin America from Panama to somewhere in the United States.
Mr. Bush could put more emphasis on multilateral diplomacy. Many Latin American and European countries have already recalled their ambassadors in protest against General Noriega's voiding of Panama's presidential election last May. But the United States failed last month in its efforts to get a tough resolution against General Noriega from the Organization of American States, illustrating just how difficult it is to use an instrument of diplomacy that successive American Administrations have ignored for more than a decade. The failure also showed how politically difficult it is for the O.A.S. to use muscle against one of its own.
Mr. Bush, in addition, has been accused of being unwilling to close a gap between his words and deeds. By announcing last spring that he would ''love'' to see the Panama Defense Forces oust General Noriega, he raised expectations that the United States favored quick military action and would support just such an effort as took place last week.
The words-deeds gap was noted by foreign policy experts last week and was illustrated by a Panamanian opposition leader who supports American policy, Guillermo Ford. Mr. Ford met briefly with Mr. Bush a day after the coup attempt. ''I looked Bush straight in the eye and he told me he'd do whatever it takes to get Noriega out, that nothing has been ruled out.'' Mr. Ford said. ''He said he would not allow a dictator like Noriega to make a fool of the United States and the rest of the world.'' But Mr. Bush offered no concrete strategy or new ideas to achieve that goal, Mr. Ford said.
 
Marching in Place
Indeed, the possibility remains that Mr. Bush will simply beat the Noriega drum loudly while marching in place. None of his top advisers seem to have a clear idea where to turn next. Despite reports of tension between John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, and Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, over flaws in the handling of last week's crisis, neither is advocating a shift in basic policy. And Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, who has still not focused much attention on various regional issues, including Panama, told Mr. Ford in a meeting last week that the United States intends to follow its current course.
Some Administration officials have tried to characterize the failed coup as a vindication of their policy. ''The pressures we've been bringing to bear on the Noriega regime are having a real effect,'' said Bernard W. Aronson, the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs. ''At the end of the day, Noriega is more isolated, more paranoid and less secure in his control than before.''
What makes any prediction difficult is that Panama's military leader was both weakened and strengthened last week. He was weakened because the rebellion reached deep into the ranks of the military, narrowing his circle of loyalists and exposing him as vulnerable. He was strengthened because his crackdown that followed is likely to discourage any new plot for some time.
Even a successful coup and the installation of the civilian opposition might not guarantee an end to General Noriega's influence. In his conversation with Mr. Bush last week, Mr. Ford said, he made it clear that the Panamanian opposition would never turn the General over to the United States to stand trial on drug-trafficking charges.
''I told Mr. Bush that we will fully comply with the Constitution of Panama,'' Mr. Ford said. ''If Noriega wants to stay as a decent human being in Panama, he can stay in Panama.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Gen. Manuel Noriega (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PANAMA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); SCIOLINO, ELAINE GEORGE WALKER BUSH (94%); ELLIOTT ABRAMS (57%); 



214 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 39, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4058 words

HEADLINE: OUR MOST NOTORIOUS SCULPTOR

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon; Deborah Solomon, the author of ''Jackson Pollock: A Biography,'' is writing a book on Joseph Cornell for Farrar, Straus and Giroux.

 BODY:
Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, is a scenic place. Every summer, Canadian tourists descend by the thousands to camp along its beaches and hike its winding trails. There are souvenir shops everywhere, and the gifts they carry - tartan tams, bright plaid ties, bagpiper key chains -proudly advertise the island's Scottish ancestry. 
But the tourists seldom stop in Inverness, an old mining town on the western edge of the island. The coal mines began closing in the 1950's, and today Inverness is a desolate place plagued by unemployment and alcoholism. It's easy to buy a six-pack of beer here, but impossible to go to a library or see a movie. Richard Serra has come to Inverness for 20 years now, and he says it's the one place where he feels at home. He spends most of the year in Manhattan, but the city, to him, ''is just a trading post, a place to exchange services and commodities. This is where I really live.'' Serra, a stocky man of 49, dressed in a navy blue T-shirt and a pair of jeans, could easily pass for one of the island's fishermen. As we drive toward his home one evening - he lives three miles outside town -people strolling the dirt road recognize his blue Chevrolet truck and wave hello. Serra waves back. Here, on the island, he is liked. But, then again, here he has never attempted to create a sculpture for a public site. Serra is one of America's most esteemed artists. In the two decades since he first started assembling immense steel plates into ''site-specific'' sculptures - his best-known pieces are created for bustling urban plazas - he has risen from the ranks of the 1960's avant-garde into the annals of art history. A vocal leftist, he first made a name for himself with splashed-lead sculptures designed to challenge the tradition of the collectible art object and the patronage system by which art is bought and sold. Yet it would be hard to call Serra an enemy of the art establishment today. His paint-stick drawings and indoor sculptures are exhibited at fashionable Manhattan galleries like Leo Castelli and Pace (he has one-man shows at both this month). In 1986, a Serra was comissioned for the London Stock Exchange - at a price of $650,000, a record for the artist's work.
Yet, for all the respect he commands within the art world, Serra can safely be described as the most notorious sculptor in America. His work has been called ''garbage,'' ''hideous,'' ''dehumanized,'' ''an irritant,'' ''a calculated offense,'' ''scrap iron'' - to borrow the appraisals of irate office workers who in 1985 testified against a Serra sculpture that had been placed in their midst. The sculpture no longer exists. Last March, ''Tilted Arc'' - 120 feet of curved Cor-Ten steel - was removed from Federal Plaza in Manhattan after years of acrimonious wrangling between the artist and the Federal Government, which commissioned the work.
Opposition to other Serra sculptures appears to be mounting in the wake of the ''Tilted Arc'' controversy; the latest brouhaha is at Yale University, the artist's alma mater. In Europe, however, where Serra is at work on a dozen commissions from Oslo to Geneva to Grenoble, both the art and the artist are receiving far more gracious treatment. In 1985, as Americans were railing against ''Tilted Arc,'' a similar sculpture installed in the Square de Choisy in Paris prompted Francois Mitterrand to personally name Serra a Chevalier in l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. (''I was tickled,'' he says. ''I felt like Lancelot.'') How does one explain the cultural differences that lead one country to name an artist a knight and another to dismantle his best-known sculpture and haul it off like a broken-down truck to a motor-vehicle warehouse?
SERRA EXPLAINS IT IN TYPICALLY BLUNT TERMS: ''IN Europe you have a historical continuum of public sculpture that's gone on from Donatello to Rodin and continues today. In the United States, you have just the opposite; the Government has excluded the possibility of any public sculpture that does not reinforce the official ideology of the state.'' He is sitting in the kitchen of his home, an 18th-century white-shingle farmhouse perched on a hill above the Northumberland Strait. His wife, Clara Weyergraf, a patient, soft-spoken German emigre, sits beside him at the table. ''In the United States,'' he continues, ''any sculpture commissioned by the Government that isn't an expression of America's ideals is going to be suppressed or censored.''
Serra is not a man of moderate opinions. He speaks in fast, almost manic bursts, and with a sense of self-righteousness that makes it easy to picture him in his youth -a fiery member of S.D.S. with hair below his shoulders. The counterculture no longer exists, and Serra's hair is now short and gray. But, as much as ever, he's political, implacable and distrustful of authority. Sen. Howard M. (Continued on Page 74) Metzenbaum, a supporter of ''Tilted Arc,'' once advised the artist that people would take him more seriously if he weren't so shrill. That's true. But it's also somehow beside the point. Serra is fond of provocative gestures - but of course he has to be to create the art he does.
Serra came of age at a time when Minimalism was stripping the forms of art to the bone, and the basic traits of his work - simplified forms, super-large scale, industrial materials - derive directly from that movement. Yet while Minimalism began as a reaction against the emotional excesses of Abstract Expressionism, Serra doesn't try to purge emotion from his work. His hulking steel plates seem to suggest that explosive feelings are trapped within their impassive surfaces. He works with the modern material of steel, yet his sculptures possess a primitive rawness.
Serra's work might be described as he-man Minimalism - a combination of pared-down shapes and forceful maneuverings of space. Compared to more traditional sculptures, which are objects we can possess, a Serra sculpture possesses us. More often than not, it is taller than we are and seems designed to force us into an encounter. On first acquaintance, Serra's assemblages of steel plates can seem menacing. Yet if his sculptures slice the air around them like a knife, they also enclose us in safe, tranquil places, or curve around us with graceful solicitude. Virtually all of his sculptures play with our anxieties about inclusion and exclusion, and this is what gives his spare metal forms their unexpected emotional charge.
Serra would agree with none of this. While he readily concedes that he wants the viewer to interact with his sculptures, he can't understand any response other than a newfound appreciation of gravity and space. He tends to rely on the dry, precise language of engineering to describe his work - he can talk for hours about ''compression'' and ''point-load'' and ''the rotation of weight'' - and adamantly denies that his sculptures possess psychological content.
At the suggestion that his work might be ''deeply expressive,'' Serra breaks into stunned laughter. ''You mean I'm a closet expressionist?'' he teases. The laughter quickly subsides and his face resumes its usual tense expression. ''I don't set out to make objects of beauty or sensibility, and I don't set out to make objects for museums. Museums, to me, border on funeral parlors. I'm not saying you can't learn from museums. But my work, to be fulfilled, needs the interaction of people. What I'm trying to do is get sculpture off the pedestal and into the street.''
Does his work address traditional themes like nature and death and transcendence?
''That's a lot of literary claptrap!''
Does his sculpture come out of emotional necessity?
Serra thinks for a few seconds, then replies quietly. ''Out of anger. Anger at the United States Government.''
VIRTUALLY EVERY conversation with Serra starts and ends with ''Tilted Arc.'' He and his wife seem to share an all-consuming sorrow over the sculpture and its short, beleaguered life; they speak of it as if it were a child they lost (they in fact have no children). ''I'm still in mourning,'' Serra says. ''The destruction of my sculpture was like a death, and that's how I took it.''
Where does the story of ''Tilted Arc'' begin? Technically in 1979, when the General Services Administration awarded Serra a $175,000 contract to build a sculpture for the plaza of the Jacob K. Javits Federal Building, at Foley Square in lower Manhattan. But perhaps it begins in 1962, when the culture-conscious Kennedy Administration adopted a resolution requiring the Government to allocate a substantial amount of money - one-half of one percent of the cost of all new Federal buildings - for the purchase of public art. Or perhaps it begins in the 19th century, when equestrian statues and battle monuments proliferated in America, and the public came to believe that outdoor sculpture could somehow serve a civic purpose.
In July 1981, ''Tilted Arc'' -a curving, unadorned wall of steel, 12 feet high and nearly the length of a city block -was installed in Federal Plaza. Unlike the sculptures of the previous century, it didn't try to commemorate valiant deeds or represent grand moral sentiments. Rather it tried to shape the space of the plaza and draw passers-by into an experience whose meaning resided not in symbolic or metaphysical references but solely in the physical elements of which the work was composed.
''Tilted Arc'' looked different depending on one's vantage point. Viewed from above, it formed a graceful, sweeping curve, a Cor-Ten rainbow. Seen head-on, though, it stuck up from the plaza like a shark's dark fin, and its presence disturbed many of the office workers who passed it every day. It was quickly nicknamed ''The Berlin Wall of Foley Square.''
In March 1985, the outcry had reached such a pitch that the G.S.A. called a public hearing to discuss the work's suitability. By then ''Tilted Arc'' had become a cause celebre, and disgruntled workers attending the hearing found themselves pitted against more than 100 prominent citizens (including Joan Mondale, Bess Myerson and Joseph Papp) who testified on the artist's behalf.
Despite the show of support for Serra, the Government decided to move ''Tilted Arc'' to another site. Serra responded in December 1986 with a $30 million lawsuit, arguing that to move the sculpture would be to destroy it. Federal courts dismissed his complaint, as well as his subsequent appeal. Last March, in the middle of the night, construction crews arrived in Federal Plaza to dismantle the sculpture and transport it to a motor-vehicle compound in Brooklyn. (In its new home it takes up eight parking spaces.) ''Tilted Arc'' is gone, yet the issues it symbolized resound as loudly as ever: Is a good sculpture necessarily a good public sculpture? Who's to decide? Does a ''site-specific'' sculpture lose its meaning if it is moved to a new location? If so, how do we explain the enduring appeal of such formerly ''site-specific'' works as the Elgin marbles (which were created for the Parthenon but are now in the British Museum)? Once an artist sells his work, should he have any legal recourse if its owner wants to alter or destroy it? (He would under a legal concept known as le droit moral, or ''moral right,'' which has been accepted in 78 countries.) Or is a sculpture just a piece of property, like a car or a rug, that can be thrown away if its owner so decides?
Serra spent virtually all of his savings - about $200,000 -on his campaign to keep ''Tilted Arc'' standing. ''In this country,'' he says angrily, ''the right of property exceeds all other rights. Art is property, and if you sell your art, you've sold your free speech. We're not very far from seeing Reagan on a bronze horse in our Federal plazas.''
If Serra holds the Government responsible for the ''destruction'' of his sculpture, he is no less embittered toward the The New York Times, which he feels helped turn public opinion against him. (One of the artist's recent works, a drawing, is entitled ''The New York Times Manufactures Censorship.'') In 1985, the newspaper ran an editorial, ''Intrusive Arc,'' that called for the sculpture's removal. ''The Times supported the Government's position,'' Serra says. ''A private individual going up against the power of the Government, the power of the press and the power of dishonesty is in a totally helpless situation.''
He casts his visitor an accusing glance, then admonishes: ''I know I can't say that. I know that line will be axed from the story.''
BORN IN SAN FRAN-cisco in 1939, Serra grew up in a working-class household. His father, Tony, was a Spanish immigrant who earned his living as a foreman in a candy plant. His mother, Gladys, a Russian Jew, kept house and looked after her three sons. Richard, the middle boy, remembers himself as a sensitive youth who felt overshadowed by his athletic older sibling and wondered it he'd ever be known as anything other than ''Tony's little brother.'' But he did have his art. Night after night, Serra would sit at the kitchen table drawing pictures of planes, trains and other boyhood fascinations on large sheets of butcher's paper. It pleased his mother to think of him as an artist. An artist, she used to tell him, can bypass the class system and rise to the highest levels of society. If art held a certain romance for Serra, so did industry. At 18, after completing his freshman year at the University of California at Berkeley, he took a job with U.S. Steel to help pay for his education. ''I worked on a rivet gang,'' Serra recalls with undisguised pride. ''It was a great experience. I liked the scale of it all, the color of it all, the sound of it all.'' Outside the factory, he continued to draw. It didn't occur to him that the boundary separating the ideals of high art from the grit of the steel mills was one he might someday cross.
In 1959, Serra transferred to the University of California at Santa Barbara, where he majored in English literature. (''My mother was this voracious reader,'' he says by way of explanation.) His plan was to earn a master's degree, but a discerning professor - the literary scholar Hugh Kenner - intervened. ''Richard,'' Kenner asked him one day, ''do you really want to take German?'' Serra said no. Kenner suggested he send off his drawings to Yale University and apply for a scholarship to study art.
And so Serra went east. It was a time when Yale's art students were splashing out canvases that owed everything to Abstract Expressionism, and Serra was no exception; he describes his early work as ''a cross between Pollock and de Kooning.'' Yet already he was beginning to experiment with nontraditional art materials, and his irreverence sometimes got him into trouble. One day, in a design course taught by the painter Neil Welliver, students were asked to consider ''spot and dot'' problems. Serra tackled the assignment by running wet cement through a meat grinder. ''Welliver got completely annoyed with me,'' Serra recalls buoyantly, ''and told me he'd pass me on one condition - if I never came back to his class.''
At 25, Serra received his master of fine arts degree and headed off to Europe for an extended jaunt on a Yale Traveling Fellowship. He was accompanied by a fellow Yalie, the sculptor Nancy Graves, whom he married in Paris (''we were trying to appease our landlady,'' Serra says) and divorced a year later. It was during this period that Serra first became serious about sculpture. Afternoons, he often visited the Musee National d'Art Moderne, where he spent long hours admiring the Brancusis and sketching their smooth, simplified shapes. He liked the work of Giacometti, too, and sometimes after midnight would stop by the cafe La Coupole, where he would espy the artist himself, a thin, spindly figure, Serra recalls, ''with plaster stuck in his hair.''
In 1966, Serra finally settled in New York, moving into an old loft building in lower Manhattan. By now he had given up painting and was eager to turn to sculpture, but he wasn't sure exactly where to begin. Around him, everyone else seemed so focused. The Pop artists, with their pictures of soup cans and comic-book girls, had already won a wide public following. The Minimalists, with their steel cubes and flat copper squares, were challenging the hedonism of their Pop counterparts with a grim, reductivist esthetic. ''There was so much going on,'' Serra recalls, ''but I was on the outside. I knew I had to protect myself somehow, and I did it by isolating myself in my studio.'' To support himself, he bought a truck and started a company called Low-Rate Moving.
One of the more radical developments of the 60's avant-garde was a movement known as Process Art, and this was the backdrop against which Serra first established himself. His earliest sculptures were made from rubber scraps; they had a raw, unfinished look, and they didn't try to represent anything other than the ''process'' - or the manual procedures - that had brought them into being. From there he went on to challenge the status of art as a saleable commodity in a series of works that bordered on performance.
The stories by now are classics. He splashed molten lead against a wall in the Whitney Museum. He filled up the Pasadena Museum in California with redwood logs. His ''prop'' pieces - soft-lead plates that leaned precariously against one another, the floor or a wall - threatened imminent collapse. Serra's early work was conceived as a series of provocations, yet there's nothing the art establishment likes so much as a bold assault on its values. By 1969 the young rebel was regularly showing his works at the Leo Castelli Gallery and receiving a regular gallery stipend of $500 a month.
Around 1970, Serra shifted his activities out of doors and became a pioneer of site-specific sculpture. Commissions took him all over the world. There was ''Shift'' (1970-72), six walls of concrete that zigzag across a grassy hillside in King City, Ontario. There was ''Spin Out'' (1972-73), a trio of steel plates that face one another like wary strangers on the grounds of the Rijksmuseum Kroller-Muller in Otterloo, Holland. There was ''Terminal'' (1977), four 41-foot-tall trapezoids that form a kind of collapsing tower in the middle of a traffic circle in Bochum, West Germany. And, unforgettably, there was ''Clara-Clara'' (1983), a surprisingly anthropomorphic work composed of two curving walls set back-to-back, like reclining figures, outside the entrance to the Tuileries in Paris. Since the early 70's, Serra has completed about 60 commissions, most of them funded by European patrons.
Serra has created only seven sculptures for public sites in the United States; they've met with varying reactions. ''Carnegie'' (1984-85), a 39-foot-high vertical shaft outside the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, has received high praise. Yet opposition to ''Twain'' (1982), eight steel plates that form a kind of triangular corral in downtown St. Louis, has been mounting in the wake of ''Tilted Arc''; city officials have censured the work as a waste of property and considered calling a referendum on whether to remove it. And, at Yale University, a group of art history professors distressed about a recently commissioned Serra sculpture (it would displace medieval and Renaissance statuary in the school's Sculpture Hall), drafted a letter to the director of the university gallery asking that the commission be rescinded.
''Because of 'Tilted Arc,' Serra says, ''my reputation in America has been seriously damaged. People come to my work with a built-in prejudice, with the idea that it's alright to censor or destroy it since that's what the U.S. Government did.'' Asked what projects he's working on now, Serra produces a sheet of paper with 14 cities listed - all but two (New Haven and Des Moines) are outside the United States. ''There's a higher respect for art in Europe,'' he says.''Unlike Americans, Europeans don't define culture in terms of the box office, in terms of what sells, what's popular.''
Serra's image as a creator of willfully menacing art has been further distorted by two tragic accidents. In November 1971, a laborer installing a Serra sculpture at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis was crushed to death when a two-ton steel plate toppled over on him. A subsequent lawsuit absolved the artist and museum of blame. Last October, a worker lost a leg while dismantling a 16-ton Serra sculpture at the Castelli Gallery. A lawsuit is pending.
''The first accident was devastating,'' Serra says. ''It shook me to the bone and made me question the whole activity of building. I couldn't work for a year. The second accident, I knew the person, a young man with two children . . . '' Serra is not the only sculptor in recent times whose work has been linked to fatal accidents (Alexander Calder and Beverly Pepper are two others), yet he is the only one to read about his misfortunes on the front page of newspaper tabloids. ''The accidents,'' he says dejectedly, ''have led people to read meanings into my work that simply aren't there.''
Serra usually begins a sculpture by making a small maquette (or model) from flat plates of steel. He then consults a structural engineer, who specifies how the piece should be made to retain its balance and stability. He purchases his materials from Lukens Steel Company, in Coatesville, Pa., and the sculpture is fabricated by a nearby shipbuilding company. When the works are finished, Serra pays a visit to the factory. (''I go to stand the sculptures up,'' he says.) His indoor sculptures are made from hot-rolled steel; his outdoor sculptures, from Cor-Ten steel, which has been the primary building material for turnpikes, bridges and industrial buildings since World War II.
Cor-Ten steel was designed to acquire a dark, even patina of rust over time, and this natural process endows Serra's sculptures with a handsome brown hue. The rust can function metaphorically, too, reminding the viewer of his own inevitable decay. When I share this idea with Serra, he is predictably displeased. ''I don't go into the studio to ruminate on death. I go into the studio to build.''
IT IS NOT UNUSUAL for American artists and writers to think of themselves as anti-intellectual. Jackson Pollock, for instance, dressed in old jeans and muddy boots and affirmed that American art must be unrefined. Jack Kerouac, too: he had an almost naive faith in the value of his own experience. Serra belongs to this romantic tradition. Nearly everything about him - from his battered blue truck to his bellicose manner to his fascination with steel - can be seen as a consciously cultivated roughness. Although deeply knowledgeable about European art, he is reluctant to acknowledge its influence on him. Asked about the artists who have shaped his work, Serra jumps up and fetches a book on the bridge-builder Robert Maillart: ''People like this are much more interesting to me than Picasso and Brancusi,'' he says.
For Serra, the American artist is a kind of primitive who comes out of nowhere and shocks the world with the rawness of his vision. This may be the reason that Europeans are in love with his work; they're in love with the image of America as a country of wild men. Serra's towering assemblies of steel confirm, for them, the essential qualities of the American character: bluntness, forcefulness and a lack of artifice.
In America, meanwhile, where the public wants its art to be optimistic and friendly, Serra's sculptures make people angry. This in itself is a kind of achievement. At a time when the art world is awash in money, it's nearly impossible for artists to challenge established tastes and values. Yet Serra's work does.
One night, as we're sitting at his kitchen table, I ask whether he sees himself as a provocateur. Serra looks startled by the question. He puts down his coffee and answers slowly, a bit painfully, ''I'm not looking for political arguments. I'm looking to do the best work I can.''
Yet, an hour later, when I get up to leave, he can't resist one final defiant gesture. He hands me a folded sheet of gray paper. When I return to my hotel, I open it up and see that he's scrawled a message in pencil: ''The only freedom an artist has is not to deal with the United States Government.''

GRAPHIC: Detail of worktable in Richard Serra's Cape Breton studio. (ANTONIN KRATOCHVIL); Page 3 of 4: Far left:Richard Serra sculpture, Fulcrum.The sculpture, dated 1987 is made of Cor-ten steel, measures 55 x 25' and is installed at Broadgate, London.; (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE PACE GALLERY) ; Top center pages 3 and 4:Richard Serra at work in his studio in Cape Breton on the model for a piece of sculpture commissioned by the University of Saarbrucken (West Germany). (ANTONIN KRATOCHVIL); Lower left page 3 of 4: Richard Serra sculpture, Maillart Extended. The sculpture dated 1988, is made of forged steel. There are two post and lintel constructions (photograph shows only 1/2 of entire sculpture). Each post is 12' and each lintel 24'. The sculpture is permanently installed at the Grand Fey V

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (90%); GERMANY (66%); UNITED KINGDOM (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ART; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); HIKING (90%); SCULPTURE (86%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); COAL MINING (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (70%); BEER & ALE (70%); ART DEALERS (68%); ART COLLECTING (64%); ART HISTORY (64%); HISTORY (62%); 

PERSON: SERRA, RICHARD; SOLOMON, DEBORAH; SERRA, RICHARD (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) RICHARD ANTHONY SERRA (92%); 



215 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 28, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4966 words

HEADLINE: LECH'S AMERICAN ANGEL

BYLINE: By David Margolick; David Margolick is a New York Times reporter who covers legal affairs. This article is adapted from his book on the contest over the will of J. Seward Johnson Sr., the pharmaceutical heir, to be published next year by William Morrow & Co.

 BODY:
IT WAS A PERFECT PLACE FOR AN EPIPHANY. THE SCENE WAS near St. Brygida's Church in Gdansk, the spiritual home of Poland's Solidarity movement. The date was May 25, 1989, the occasion the annual Corpus Christi procession. Among those leading the 25,000 marchers were Lech Walesa and Barbara Piasecka Johnson, the Polish-born American woman who inherited much of the Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical fortune.
As is so often the case in Poland, religion and politics merged as the marchers made their way from the Marianska Basilica to the square outside St. Brygida's. Mr. Walesa began describing to Mrs. Johnson, who left her homeland in 1968, the precarious state of the Lenin Shipyard, where, nine years ago, Solidarity was born. In October 1988, the Communist authorities announced plans to shut down the unprofitable facility. The Government said its motives were strictly economic; Solidarity officials insisted they were political. But by now that almost didn't matter: unless someone came along to rescue it, and soon, Mr. Walesa said, 10,000 jobs and the very cradle of Solidarity would be lost. He placed the cost of such a rescue at somewhere between $70 million and $100 million. 
Those kinds of numbers did not faze the 52-year-old Mrs. Johnson. At roughly $300 million, her wealth is impressive enough in dollars; were it converted to zlotys - on the black market, the way everyone in Poland changes money, or even at the lower official rate - she would become a multi-trillionaire. ''I will help,'' she told Mr. Walesa without missing a beat. ''I'm taking it.''
At first, the Solidarity leader didn't think Mrs. Johnson could possibly be serious. But within hours, an exultant Mr. Walesa, along with shipyard officials and Mrs. Johnson, had signed an in-formal, handwritten letter of intent. ''He was so excited, he started to hug and kiss me,'' Mrs. Johnson recalled. ''He said: 'You've set an example for how to make Poland economically strong. I've met presidents, kings, queens, heads of state - the most important people in the world, but never someone as wonderful as you. From now on, when I see the world I want to have you always at my side.' He repeated and repeated and repeated that.''
Last June 1, on behalf of a new entity called the Barbara Piasecka Johnson-Gdansk Shipyard Company, Mrs. Johnson signed a three-page, typewritten document. In it, she declared her readiness to spend up to $100 million - though the actual cash outlay could be much lower - for a 55 percent interest in the yard, ''subject to the organization's books and cash flow being in shape,'' and with the Polish Government guaranteeing her investment in the event of nationalization or expropriation. In a country so desperate for hard currency that it still shakes down Western visitors for $15 a day, Mrs. Johnson was brandishing a fortune. Indeed, with the stroke of a pen, she had conceivably committed almost as much money to the beleaguered Polish economy as President Bush would in his initial proposal, a few weeks later, on behalf of the entire American Government.
Within days of the initial agreement, a swarm of consultants, lawyers and accountants, all on Johnson's payroll, descended on the sprawling yard. There, they worked through the summer and into the fall, attempting to nail down the privatization of the premises. The transaction is still not complete; under the terms of the letter of intent, the negotiators have until Dec. 31 to complete their discussions. But Mrs. Johnson says they are proceeding ''perfectly'' and she hopes to conclude the deal ahead of schedule.
By any standard, Polish hotels are to tourism what Polish suits are to fashion: threadbare, grim, utilitarian. Nonetheless, in the last few months, Mrs. Johnson has exchanged her usual haunts - the Ritz in Paris, the Connaught in London, Jasna Polana, her $30 million estate in Princeton, N.J. - for a spartan suite in Gdansk's Hotel Hevelius, a place more accustomed to serving West German tourists and East Bloc businessmen than American heiresses. Here she now spends much of her time, like some 19th-century New England textile magnate, overlooking her domain: the vast shipyard complex, dominated by mammoth, genuflecting cranes, framed by the steeples of German Danzig and the belching smokestacks of Stalin and Gomulka.
Twelve hours a day or more she devotes to the deal, much of it at the shipyard offices, questioning, listening, negotiating, inspecting, learning, translating. ''It isn't as if she's just plopping down a lot of money,'' said Mrs. Johnson's lawyer, James D. Whisenand of Miami. ''For a woman who doesn't have to do this, she's working very hard.''
THEY'VE BEEN BUILDING SHIPS IN GDANSK for over 400 years; it was in this Baltic port city that the Kaiser constructed his cruisers and Hitler built his U-Boats. But since 1970, when 28 workers were killed during food riots nearby, the Lenin shipyard - renamed for the Russian leader in 1968, according to Mr. Walesa, in an attempt by the Polish superintendent to endear himself to the Communist authorities - has also been something of a shrine, marked by the three towering steel crosses at its gates. ''No one ought to pass this with indifference,'' reads an inscription near the site of the massacre.
In 1980, when Mr. Walesa, then an electrician in the yard, jumped over its gates and began the strike that launched Solidarity, the shipyard became another, prouder symbol. And in the 1990's, if the virulently anti-Communist Mrs. Johnson has her way, it will symbolize something else again: the rejuvenation, through Western capital and know-how, of Poland's economy and work force, both sluggish and demoralized after four decades of Communism. As important as the privatization could be in its own right, it would occur against the backdrop of similar but more cataclysmic changes now under way in Poland.
Mrs. Johnson stresses that for her the deal constitutes investment rather than charity for Poles. ''I believe in these people,'' says Mrs. Johnson. ''For 50 years, they haven't had a chance to show how great they really are.'' Her message, she says, is also for Americans, who have forgotten what Poles did for Americans in the Revolutionary War and what America did to Poland at Yalta. The plan to privatize the shipyard, says Walesa, is at ''the heart of the Polish reform - a model for other industries.'' The name Piasecka Johnson, he suggests, says it all: a joint venture between Poles and Americans.
For a decade or more, European shipbuilding has been in the doldrums, the result of overcapacity and of Japanese and Korean competition. But suddenly, ships built back in the 1960's, particularly tankers, are wearing out, and with many yards in mothballs, there's a shortage of berths and skilled labor for building replacements. ''A year ago, no one would have given you two pence halfpenny for a shipyard,'' says Martin Stopford, senior shipping economist with the London branch of the Chase Manhattan Bank. ''But now, there is a new wind blowing through the shipbuilding industry. As businesses go, Mrs. Johnson is probably buying into the bottom of a cycle.'' Indeed, other parties, including Germans and Norwegians, have expressed some interest in parts of the yard, and because the letter of intent is non-exclusive, Mrs. Johnson could theoretically be outbid.
The very notion of an American woman, with little experience in boats aside from her late husband's pleasure crafts, going behind the Iron Curtain to become a shipbuilding magnate reveals much of what Barbara Piasecka Johnson, who (Continued on Page 64) is called Basia, is: impulsive, emotional, dramatic, patriotic, restless, romantic, even messianic. Three years after she inherited her late husband's fortune, a fortune she secured only after a bitter court battle with her six stepchildren that cost her $20 million in legal fees, she is still a woman in search of a mission. Just as surely, she is someone who, highly sensitive about being perceived as a gold-digger, craves respect as an educated woman and art connoisseur - respect she feels she has never gotten in the United States.
At first blush, the Basia Johnson story is the American dream come true. A pretty, ambitious woman leaves Poland at the age of 31 with $200 and an art degree to her name, finds work as a maid in the home of one of the nation's most wealthy men - J. Seward Johnson Sr., son of the founder of Johnson & Johnson - and, within three years marries him, though he is 42 years her senior. They remain together for 12 years, until his death from cancer. His last will, read a few days after his funeral, leaves her virtually everything.
But Mrs. Johnson, a radiant blonde with a broad smile and buoyancy who looks and acts younger than her years, has never thought of herself as a Cinderella. She bristles at frequent press references to her as a ''former chambermaid'' and sees nothing charming or magical in her tale. To her, it was somehow all ordained. Moreover, as far as she is concerned, hers is a story without a happy ending - at least not yet. Her two decades in the United States have been turbulent, a time of constant projects, court battles and ever-changing interests, associates, employees, friends.
True, she emerged from Manhattan Surrogate's Court in June 1986 as one of the world's wealthiest women. True, too, her stepchildren, who charged that she had charmed, bamboozled and bullied their increasingly enfeebled father into disinheriting them, largely failed to prove their case, though they picked up $42 million for their trouble. Still, the highly publicized 17-week-long trial left Basia Johnson bruised and battered, tagged with an image of extravagance, eccentricity, ego and abusiveness. A host of disgruntled former employees rounded up by lawyers for the Johnson children told damaging tales about her: of her tirades, her lavish expenditures on art, furniture, or indulgences, such as an air-conditioned doghouse with a kitchenette and custom-made mattresses. Those Americans who recognize her name are likely to conjure images of her screaming at a maid, flashing a V-for-victory sign at 15 employees from her estate who disrupted the trial to demonstrate on her behalf (and at her behest, despite her protestations to the contrary), or spending $25,000 on two antique cushions.
''My American hell,'' as she sometimes calls the whole bloodying experience, has left Basia Johnson feeling embittered toward her adopted land and disinclined to launch any major charitable initiatives here. At times, she has talked of abandoning the United States altogether, presumably for some more sympathetic European locale. She has already gone into a kind of philanthropic exile, financing schools, hospitals and shelters throughout Poland. But, in scope, ambition or worldwide reaction, none of this compares to the shipyard project. If in America Mrs. Johnson will always be a maid, in Poland she has instantly become a queen. Priests pay her homage, high government and Solidarity officials kiss her hand, women bring her flowers, surround her limousine, clamor for her autograph, chanting ''Pani Johnson! Pani Johnson!'' - or Lady Johnson -whenever she passes. Last month, she met with Tadeusz Mazowiecki, the new Polish Prime Minister, who, she said, told her that all of Poland thanked her for saving the symbol of Solidarity.
Though most of the shipyard workers have never seen her - at the souvenir stand outside the gate, photographs of her (large and wallet-size) are still outsold by pictures of Mr. Walesa with President Bush and Margaret Thatcher - they, too, sing her praises. ''She will improve the organization and quality of work,'' said one. ''The technology we have right now is the hammer, the chisel, the torch,'' another commented. ''Pani Basia will make our work easier.'' ''She's very feminine and all the men like her,'' said Alojzy Szablewski, Solidarity's chairman in the yard. ''They would go to battle for her.''
Mrs. Johnson has certainly won the undying gratitude of Mr. Walesa. Judging from the good-natured, almost flirtatious banter between the two, they have become fast friends. ''What's a frail woman like you doing in a shipyard with cranes and rusting metal?'' Walesa asked Johnson recently, over the phone from his office. ''You belong in a garden of flowers or in a coffeeshop, with me.''
Not surprisingly, Mr. Walesa is besieged by the press these days, and is visibly bored by most of the questions he's asked. But when the subject turns to Barbara Johnson, he suddenly grows animated and voluble. ''I didn't think she'd be so first-rate, with such personal charm and courage,'' he says. ''I thought that with all her money, she would walk around on the street with a lot of cats and dogs and men carrying her bags after her. Instead, I found a simple, pretty girl - quiet, composed, unpretentious, and at the same time quite great. In brief: grand in her simplicity.''
''I like Pani Basia as a woman, not only for her money,'' he continues, almost impishly. ''I like to kiss her and I am quite happy that she still lets me. And I'm quite interested to see how long she lets me.'' The interpreter cautions Mr. Walesa, happily married and the father of eight, that his remarks may appear in print. ''That's all right,'' he replies. ''My wife doesn't speak English.''
Amid the general euphoria, there are some caveats about the proposed purchase. Some think the shipyard, beset by declining orders, increased competition, outdated equipment and deep-seated labor troubles is beyond salvation. One worker poses a question to a reporter, then answers it: ''You know what I really think about the shipyard? That this is one great, if you will excuse me, burdel'' - or whorehouse. Actually, to a visitor, another Polish word comes to mind: balagan, or mess. The Lenin complex resembles a huge and crumbling city, a rusty, dusty network of pipes and sheds, Victorian brick buildings and trolley tracks. One sees just about everything here but ships, save for a few scattered hulks.
So debris-strewn is the entire 340-acre compound that it is almost impossible to envision anything shiny ever emerging from it. In fact, production here has slipped from 27 ships in 1979 to only 14 scheduled for this year. In the last 15 years, the work force has dropped, through layoffs and attrition, from 16,500 to 10,200.
It was perhaps inevitable that Mrs. Johnson's initiative would be compared to placing Band-Aids on a hemorrhage. ''Maybe she wants to be in the Guinness book as the investor who's lost the most money,'' our Polish driver says grumpily. ''If she really wants to help, let her get into shoe or meat business.''
Other skeptics, noting the inherent conflict between labor and capital, predict that sooner or later the interests of Mrs. Johnson and Solidarity will collide. That tension was hinted at in a recent headline in Gazeta Wyborcza, the Solidarity daily newspaper: ''Pani Johnson Doesn't Like Strikes.''
Mrs. Johnson also has her skeptics in America. They note her mercurial nature, her penchant for adopting causes suddenly and fervently, only to abandon them just as quickly out of pique or lack of interest.
Still, this undertaking seems different. This time, she has brought in an entourage of experts - accountants from Arthur Andersen & Co., maritime consultants from London's A. & P. Appledore Ltd. This time, she has already displayed a proprietary attitude toward the place; in August, for instance, she asked five United States Senators visiting Gdansk whether they had seen ''her'' shipyard. She takes frequent walking tours around it, wearing a helmet emblazened with her name and Solidarity's distinctive logo, giving pep talks to workers.
This time, what was undertaken emotionally may even make sense economically, as a shrunken shipbuilding industry tries to meet growing worldwide demand for new vessels. Her advisers insist that the decrepitude of the yard has been exaggerated. ''It's not some rusted-out old hulk,'' said John Peach, Mrs. Johnson's aide. ''The slipways, the main cranes, are in good shape.''
Already, Mrs. Johnson's advisers say, they are receiving inquiries from customers. Perhaps most important, this time, an entire nation - her homeland - will be watching everything she does.
''She should be admired as a very brave woman who took a great burden on her shoulders,'' said the Rev. Henryk Jankowski, the pastor of St. Brygida's and the matchmaker who brought Mrs. Johnson and Mr. Walesa together. ''She did it above all for Poland, to help out the economic situation. Not everyone has the courage she has. God is helping her. Obviously, God wanted it this way.''
Mrs. Johnson does not quarrel with that. ''I'm fortunate to be in a position to do this,'' she says. ''Somebody had to be brave. I'm very grateful to God that He chose me to do these things.''
TECHNICALLY, THE principal issue in the will contest was J. Seward Johnson's mental competence on the day he signed his last will. The lawyers representing the Johnson children, from the New York firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, might very well have proved that Mr. Johnson was too ill on April 14, 1983, to realize what he was doing. But the Milbank lawyers faced additional hurdles: there were 12 years' worth of prior wills in which a far healthier Mr. Johnson had left as much to his wife as he could under the existing tax laws. The children's only real option was to make things so miserable for their stepmother that she would pay them to go away.
With the fortune their father had already bestowed upon them - trust funds collectively worth nearly $400 million - they pawed over her past. The investigation, conducted by Milbank operatives, came complete with private eyes - who traveled to Wroclaw, Warsaw, Cracow and Rome - code names, couriers and secret Swedish rendezvous.
Their efforts came to naught. They found none of the spurious degrees, former husbands or other assorted scandals they had hoped for. The rags-to-riches saga so intriguing to everyone but Basia Johnson herself remained largely intact.
Barbara Piasecka was born on Feb. 25, 1937, in Staniewicze, a village in what was then the northeastern portion of Poland. She was the fourth child and only daughter of a poor farming couple. (Mrs. Johnson, who once boasted of her common origins, has more recently come to speak of an aristocratic lineage.) Among her first sensations were fear and flight; she was 2 when the Germans and Russians marched into Poland and divvied it up. The Piaseckis fled west, toward Warsaw, where they spent the rest of the war. They then moved to Poznan, and when their farm there was confiscated by the Communists, moved on once more, to Wroclaw.
At Boleslaw Bierut University, in Wroclaw, Basia took courses in art history, studies she continued at the Jagiellonian University in Cracow, where she earned her master's degree. In 1968, she left Poland, first for Rome, then America. Friends arranged for her to be interviewed at the Oldwick, N.J., home of Mr. and Mrs. J. Seward Johnson Sr., where Edith, the cook, had just quit. Mr. Johnson, 73 at the time, was Johnson & Johnson's largest individual stockholder but held only a ceremonial post at the company; by all accounts he was far more interested in sailing, farming, oceanography and women than in sutures or suppositories. (His elder brother, Gen. Robert Wood Johnson, had controlled the company, and, in many ways, Seward as well. On his death in 1968 - shortly before Basia arrived from Poland - the elder Johnson left virtually all of his multimillion-dollar inheritance to a foundation bearing his name. The foundation has since become famous for its support of medical research, while Seward Johnson's principal legacy so far has been to enrich lawyers.) After a brief interview, the second Mrs. J. Seward Johnson hired the third. Miss Piasecka tried her hand in the kitchen, poring over recipe books in a language she could not yet understand. Several mishaps later, on the brink of dismissal, she was rescued by a kindly upstairs maid, who agreed to change jobs with her.
A young Basia once told her friends that when she returned to Poland, it would be in a Rolls-Royce. That proved prophetic. In the fall of 1969, shortly after she had left the Johnsons' employ to attend New York University, Mr. Johnson, whose 32-year marriage to Esther Underwood Johnson had long since soured, summoned her to his New Brunswick, N.J., office. As she later recalled, he told her how much he admired her industry, which reminded him of the American pioneers, and asked her to work for him, assembling the art collection he had always wanted and helping him conduct oceanographic research. She agreed. Soon the two were romantically involved, and in 1971 he divorced his wife to marry her. None of his children was invited to the wedding.
Over the next 12 years, the Johnsons traveled widely, built or bought homes in Italy, Poland and the Bahamas as well as in Princeton, and assembled a large collection of art and furniture, built around Basia Johnson's ephemeral tastes. At first, she favored more recent works, but over time the Van Goghs and Picassos, Monets and Modiglianis gave way to Renaissance and Baroque works by such painters as Caravaggio, Montagna and Raphael -this even though Mrs. Johnson has never been particularly religious. ''In the past half-century, many private collections of Old Masters have been dispersed, but very few have been assembled, and none has been so large and so wide-ranging as that of Mrs. Johnson,'' the art historian John Pope-Hennessy wrote in a catalogue for an exhibition of her collection, organized by her close friend, the film maker Franco Zefferelli, to open in Warsaw next spring.
As cosmopolitan as she became, Mrs. Johnson always retained her ties to Poland. Replicating original works in Warsaw, Cracow, Gdansk and Gniezno, Polish craftsmen fabricated and installed the cast-iron gates, grillwork and lanterns at Jasna Polana. (The name, which means bright meadow, or glade, in Polish, is the same as that of Tolstoy's Russian estate, Yasnaya Polyana, but Mrs. Johnson insists it is her creation.) Mr. Johnson purchased a Polish fishing trawler and had workmen in Szczecin convert it into a pleasure boat, and dubbed it Mazurka - an experience she points to as evidence of her shipbuilding expertise. The couple sponsored the 1975 Chopin Piano Competition in Warsaw and befriended the late Witold Malcuzynski, a prominent Polish emigre pianist. She supported the New York-based Nowy Dziennik, the daily newspaper of the Polish-American community, which may account for the scant space it devoted to her legal travails. She continues to award grants to young Polish artists, and has become a kind of Polish-American John Beresford Tipton, television's ''Millionaire,'' impulsively handing out large sums of money to various countrymen down on their luck. In American Polonia, she is the philanthropist of first, last and, often, only resort. ''Why don't you do what everyone else does and call Mrs. Johnson?'' an official of the Kosciuszko Foundation told one recent grant-seeker.
Even by Polish standards, Mrs. Johnson is fiercely anti-Communist, a woman who once condemned compatriots like Zbigniew Brzezinski and John Cardinal Krol of Philadelphia for shaking hands with Wojciech Jaruzelski. She is a dedicated supporter of Solidarity: a marble plaque inscribed with slogans from the movement is to be installed in the chapel now under construction at Jasna Polana, the one atop the bomb shelter equipped with periscopes. After martial law was declared in Poland in 1981, the Johnsons sent $1 million for humanitarian relief; recently, she pledged another $1 million, primarily to improve health and day-care services. There were other, more covert, contributions to Polish causes, like the $250,000 in cash she is said to have stuffed into a Louis Vuitton carrying case and smuggled into Europe and handed over to Ginetta Sagan, one of the founders of Amnesty International.
Still, Basia Johnson occupies an uncertain place in the Polish emigre community. Only once has she attended the annual Bal Polanaise, the premiere social event of New York's Polish elite. She was to have been the guest of honor at a similar event held two years ago by Nowy Dziennik, but failed to show up. Her attempt to buttress the troubled Biblioteka Polska in Paris, the venerable institute that Chopin and Mickiewicz once frequented, was rebuffed when library officials accused her of trying to take over the place. She also withdrew her support for the Institute for Polish-Jewish Studies, in Oxford, England - a group she helped start - when one of its top officials wrote an article on Polish anti-Semitism that she considered unduly harsh.
Mrs. Johnson also embraced the idea of an institute on Central and Eastern European studies, first proposed in 1985 by Czeslaw Milosz, the Polish-American poet, and spoke about it with several leading scholars, including Alexander Schenker of Yale and Wiktor Weintraub and Stanislaw Baranczak of Harvard. But the project, to which she had talked of donating as much as $100 million, was delayed by the will contest, then abandoned altogether. Since then, she has not endowed a proposed Barbara Johnson Chair in Polish history at Yale, nor did she help that school purchase and catalogue its archives of Mr. Milosz and Aleksander Wat, the late Polish-Jewish writer.
Over the years, Basia Johnson has picked or perpetuated countless fights with charities, contractors, employees and, especially, lawyers. During the will contest, for instance, she repeatedly feuded with Sullivan & Cromwell, the New York firm representing her, prompting one exasperated lawyer to quit the case. Afterward, she sued Shearman & Sterling, the Wall Street firm that did Mr. Johnson's estate work, for malpractice - the first such suit in Shearman's more than 100-year history. Among others, the suit named Nina S. Zagat, the Shearman lawyer who supervised Mr. Johnson's last will and who, for many years, was as close to a friend as anyone Basia Johnson had. The malpractice suit ultimately failed, but not before Mrs. Johnson dragged herself to the dreary Manhat-(Continued on Page 70) tan courtroom of Surrogate Marie M. Lambert for two more months - and paid millions more in legal fees for the privilege. What accounts for this contentiousness? Partly it's that Mrs. Johnson is a perfectionist, a quality she repeatedly demonstrated in her meticulous care for her dying husband. It is paranoia - the fear, common, perhaps, to those who win lotteries of any kind, that everyone is out to exploit her. It is her imperious nature, which demands subservience, even servility, from those who work for her. It is also justifiable anger over shoddy work, like the poor job Sullivan & Cromwell did defending her; given a case that was all but impossible to lose, the firm very nearly did.
For Basia Johnson, disputes often become matters of high principle, and consume an inordinate amount of her time, money and passion. Amid all her frustrations, she has periodically retreated to Jasna Polana, the estate she shares with her servants and her dogs. She has told friends that though her first marriage was for love, her next will be for money; whether or not that was said facetiously, no man ever seems to have replaced Seward Johnson in her affections. From time to time, she appears amidst the glitterati. ''The competing interest earlier in the day . . . had been 'What will Basia Johnson wear next?' '' Barbara Lazear Ascher wrote in European Travel & Life last year, in an article about a fund-raiser in Venice. ''It was hard to see, because the widow of John Seward Johnson traveled with an entourage consisting of her English decorator-cum-art adviser and a bevy of hungry young men snapping at her heels like Venetian puppies.''
But Basia Johnson seems to squirm in the bold face of the gossip columns. She thinks that world trivial, and herself, conversely, destined for far greater things.
FATHER JANKOWSKI OF ST. Brygida's knows many Americans - the gallery at the Gdansk rectory includes a photograph of the Kennedy brothers. But before coming to the United States last spring, he had never heard of Basia Johnson. Nor, surprisingly, had many other Poles; the state-controlled press had made little mention of her over the years, perhaps fearful of publicizing one of its wealthiest -and, therefore, most dangerous -critics. Another priest suggested that Father Jankowski visit Mrs. Johnson in Princeton, and it was during that visit that he invited her to Gdansk.
On a Sunday two days after the signing ceremony, as she sat next to Mr. Walesa at the front of St. Brygida's, Father Jankowski praised Mrs. Johnson from the pulpit. When he introduced her she came forward, to tumultuous applause, bowed her head slightly, and smiled, almost shyly. Fists shot into the air and several women began to cry. So did Mrs. Johnson.
Three months later, Mrs. Johnson's enthusiasm had not waned, as was apparent one afternoon as she and Mr. Walesa posed for photographs in front of the shipyard gates. Like some couple in a comic opera, they ran through a gamut of exaggerated gestures and emotions. Mr. Walesa cautioned those present not to eavesdrop on their banter, and she smiled broadly, like a woman who felt perfectly protected and content.
And perhaps she is. For whatever Basia Johnson ends up paying for her piece of the shipyard, she will presumably have plenty left over. She'll also, perhaps, have some of the things that have eluded her up to now: respect, peace, and maybe, even, some happiness.

GRAPHIC: COVER: Barbara Piasecka Johnson and Lech Walesa outside the Lenin Shipyard in Gdansk, Poland. September 16, 1989.(ANTONINKRATOCHVIL);p. 29: Barbara Piasecka Johnson with workers at the Lenin Shipyard in Gdansk Poland. September 16, 1989.(ANTONIN KRATOCHVIL);p. 29, INSET: Basia Johnson outside Jasna Polana, the Princeton, New Jersey mansion she shared with her late husband, J. Seward Johnson. 1986.(HARRY BENSON); . 30: Workers at the Lenin Shipyard protest against the government's edict to close the facility. The workers threatened a nationwide strike should the shipyard close. November 1988.(BERNARD BISSON/SYGMA); p. 31, TOP: Basia Johnson in the livingroom at Jasna Polana with her dogs, Renaissance bronzes, old master paintings, gilt furniture and Louis XIV carpet. Princeton, New Jer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); 

COUNTRY: POLAND (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOLIDARITY UNION; LENIN SHIPYARD (POLAND); JOHNSON & JOHNSON INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; GDANSK (POLAND)

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING (89%); RELIGION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, J SEWARD (1895-1983); JOHNSON, BARBARA PIASECKA BARBARA PIASECKA JOHNSON (94%); 



216 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 68, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Beauty;
UPS AND DOWNS

BYLINE: By Linda Wells

 BODY:
MISS AMERICA CONTESTANTS wear them with bathing suits. Playboy Playmates wear them with little else. The Rockettes kick up a storm in them. And Barbie's slender plastic feet are permanently poised to be slipped into them. They, of course, are high heels: instruments of torture, symbols of sexuality and fodder for fetishists.
Meanwhile, a number of American designers - Calvin Klein, Donna Karan and Isaac Mizrahi, for instance - paired flat shoes with skirts in their fall shows. ''With a really short skirt, a flat shoe, like a brogue, can look frumpy,'' says Mr. Mizrahi. ''But elf shoes or velvet slippers with the same color hose -I love that.'' A collective sigh was released by women who value comfort. Teetering around city streets and offices on sharp, stratospheric heels is a challenge for all but the most adroit. 
Podiatrists and orthopedists are probably cheering, too. In a national survey conducted by the Gallup Organization for the American Podiatric Medical Association, 37 percent of those polled said they walked around in high heels despite the discomfort. ''Wearing high heels will certainly aggravate back problems,'' says Dr. John F. Waller, chief of foot and ankle services at Mount Sinai Hospital, in New York. ''They put the foot and the body at a disadvantage.''
But high heels have their fans, among them the female population of Paris. Despite all the musings on the secrets of French style, it can be pinned on a predilection for precariously high heels. Manolo Blahnik, the shoe designer who has stores in London and New York, is vigorously promoting high heels. ''Elegant women prefer them,'' he says. ''In London, I've been selling more high heels than ever.''
Comfort aside, high heels are an alluring piece of fashion. They ''may well be the most potent aphrodisiac ever concocted,'' writes Dr. William A. Rossi in the Journal of the American Podiatry Association. ''When worn by women, the high heel sensuously alters the whole anatomy.'' The leggy Rockettes almost always dance in heels. ''They change a dancer's balance and help push her forward,'' says Bruce Michael, senior producer of the Rockettes. And beauty contestants seem to have them welded to their feet. ''The basic standard pump with a three-inch heel makes the leg look most attractive,'' says Rex M. Holt, the co-producer of the Miss Texas U.S.A. and Miss California U.S.A. pageants. But Mr. Holt abolished high heels from his pageant's swimsuit competition this year. ''Who wears high heels with a bathing suit?'' he asks. ''It was the phoniest part of the competition.''
Instead, the contestants go barefoot, padding down the runway on tiptoes to give their legs a long, tight look.
Those women who want to wear flat shoes and are not willing to mince around on their toes may turn to exercise. Stretching the calf muscles helps to elongate them. To strengthen the calf, balance the ball of one foot on the edge of a step.
Holding a weight in one hand, slowly lower and raise the heel.
''Everyone ignores calf exercises, but they can shape the muscle,'' says Toni McGinley, director of exercise testing at the Plus One Fitness Clinic in New York.
Board-flat shoes can be just as detrimental as high heels, because they put stress on the back of the legs, says Dr. Waller: ''All shoes, even men's shoes, should have some heel. One-and-a-half- to one-and-three-quarter-inch heels are best for most women. If you're going to wear high heels, it's a good idea to switch to low heels from time to time, to keep the muscles flexible.''
Clearly, high heels do more to flatter the legs than flats do, mostly because they make the legs look fit and shapely. Then again, ''if you have wonderful legs, the heels don't matter,'' says Mr. Blahnik.

GRAPHIC: Photo of low heeled shoes.(Wilfrid Rouff)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (56%); AMERICAN PODIATRIC MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); PODIATRY (89%); FOOTWEAR (89%); WOMEN (88%); ORTHOPEDICS (77%); FASHION DESIGN (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); TORTURE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); DANCERS (60%); 

PERSON: ISAAC MIZRAHI (72%); RICHARD 'CALVIN' KLEIN (57%); 



217 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 34, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2942 words

HEADLINE: The Baby Bomb

BYLINE: By Carin Rubenstein; Carin Rubenstein is a freelance writer in North Tarrytown, N.Y.

 BODY:
SINCE HER DAUGHTER, CARMEN, was born, Jasmine Gazzarato of Royal Oak, Mich., says she has taken on three jobs. She works full time developing training programs for the Ford Motor Company and the United Automobile Workers, takes care of her daughter and caters to her husband, Melvin Winkler.
Although they had their baby relatively late in life - she is 38 and he is 39 - and had grown accustomed to sharing household chores equally, they slipped into what Ms. Gazzarato calls ''the old roles'' after becoming parents two years ago. ''Even if he is around,'' she says, ''the baby is my job.'' She also does ''pretty much everything around the house.'' As a result, she and her husband argue more often than they used to. They argue about what to do in their valuable free time, how much money they should be saving and even whether they should swear in front of the baby.
For his part, Mr. Winkler believes he does as much as he can, given that he puts in almost 60 hours a week in the art department at Oakland Community College in Auburn Hills, Mich. ''My time off is with the baby,'' he says. ''A lot of husbands are golfing, sailing or sitting around watching baseball.'' If his wife complains about how little he helps out, he says, ''I shrug it off.'' 
More people became parents for the first time in 1987, the last year for which figures are available, than in any other year in United States history, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. Like Ms. Gazzarato and Mr. Winkler, many first-time parents discover that the birth of a baby has the impact of a bomb, the first salvo in an ever-intensifying marital battle. Most new parents are prepared for some inconveniences - they expect their social lives to be restricted, for example, and to get less sleep. But many find that the difficulties they experience are much greater and more enduring than they had anticipated.
Two major research projects - one in California and the other in Pennsylvania - have documented in greater depth than ever before the astonishingly stressful social and emotional consequences of parenthood. The studies revealed that for about half of the couples who participated, marital satisfaction declined after the birth of a first child. The researchers also found that postponing parenthood makes no difference in the ease or difficulty of the transition and that after having a child, husband and wife tend to take on traditional gender-specific roles - even if both spouses work outside the home.
The new findings on parenthood are based on data from studies in which researchers recruited couples during pregnancy and studied them both before and after the birth of their first child. Previous studies on parenthood were conducted by a less reliable method that involved asking parents to recall any problems they had had after their first child was born, sometimes as long as 10 years earlier.
Philip A. Cowan, a professor of psychology, and Carolyn Pape Cowan, a research psychologist, both at the University of California at Berkeley, began their transition-to-parenthood study in 1979. They followed 96 couples in northern California, 72 of whom were expecting their first child, for six years. The Cowans became interested in the topic after they themselves experienced great distress upon becoming parents - as Carolyn Cowan puts it, she and her husband discovered ''how really thrown we were by what it had done to us as a couple.'' Jay Belsky, a professor of human development at Pennsylvania State University, followed 250 couples in rural Pennsylvania for three to five years, between 1981 and 1988. When recruited, all of the couples were expecting their first child.
Both projects have found that certain problems are common among couples whose marriage suffers after the birth of their first child. These couples argue more often and with greater intensity than before about such things as the division of labor at home, the time they spend alone, their in-laws and sex. Many husbands and wives express less affection for each other - they seldom kiss and hug or give each other compliments. Some couples become ambivalent about their marriage, doubting their feelings for each other and even questioning whether they should have married in the first place. Wives generally become dissatisfied with their marriage first, usually about six months after the baby's birth, but the husbands become equally unhappy after 18 months.
ALMOST TWO YEARS after the birth of her daughter, Ginni Morani, 30, of Columbia, Md., admits that she is still in shock. ''I thought everything would be right back to normal,'' she says. Mrs. Morani, a former assistant clinical director of a drug program, and her 30-year-old husband, Rick, a management consultant, hardly see each other during the week anymore. Because her husband works long hours, Mrs. Morani confesses that she sometimes feels like a single parent.
''We're definitely on different schedules as far as Monday through Friday goes,'' says Mr. Morani, who sees his daughter, Megan, for only a short time in the morning. At night, he adds, his wife seems ''much more tired than she used to be.''
''By the time I get into bed, sex is the last thing I think of,'' Mrs. Morani says. Although her husband seems sympathetic, she has noticed that ''while he's saying, 'It's O.K., it's O.K.,' he's biting his lip.'' Jasmine Gazzarato and Melvin Winkler have had similar problems. For a long time after their baby was born, Ms. Gazzarato says, ''there was no sexual interaction. Then it was few and far between.'' Even now, two years later, she says that sex is ''more of a strain'' and that some of the pleasure she and her husband shared in their lovemaking is gone.
Many women lose their desire for sex after having a baby. Experts disagree over whether the reason is hormonal or psychological. ''The sexual relationship doesn't feel as comfortable for a lot of couples even two years later,'' Carolyn Cowan says. ''Those who don't know that's the way it is get very frightened by it.''
A majority of new parents who took part in a survey conducted by Parenting magazine last year said that their sex life suffered after the birth of their first child. Almost all of them said that mothers pay more attention to their babies than to their husbands. In addition, half of the new fathers asserted that they received less love and affection from their wife for six months after the birth of their child. Three-quarters of them said that during that period they had sex far less often than before. Half of the couples said their sex life had not recovered one year later.
Of course, not all couples fight the postparenthood wars. About half of the parents in Jay Belsky's study said they were more satisfied with their marriage after having a child, or experienced few changes. His data also indicate that it may be possible to predict which couples are most likely to be vulnerable to the baby bomb. Those who view their marriage primarily in sexual or romantic terms, rather than as a partnership, tend to be less happy as parents. Couples who have an infant with ''irregular biological rhythms and routines'' - or, in blunter language, a cranky baby - are more apt to experience a decline in marital satisfaction than parents of a more easygoing infant. Finally, couples who are young and not well educated and who have not been married long are likely to have trouble with their relationship after the birth of a baby.
At first glance the evidence seems to suggest that there may be an advantage to having children later in life. ''Couples who postpone parenthood do seem buffered from marital deterioration,'' says Belsky. But he cautions that psychological maturity and the number of years a couple have been married are probably more important than age in determining the ability of a marriage to withstand the stress of parenthood.
Although there is no conclusive evidence on the effects of postponing parenthood, some research supports Belsky's view. The Cowans have found no difference in adjustment between younger and older parents. And in a one-year study of 64 couples, Mark W. Roosa, an associate professor of family resources and human development at Arizona State University in Tempe, reported that, on average, those who had their first child after age 28 were no happier with their marriage and felt no more in control of their lives than younger parents.
The first major study of the effects of postponing parenthood was completed in 1981 by Pamela Daniels, now a dean at Wellesley College, and Kathy Weingarten, a family therapist in the Boston area. They interviewed 36 couples who had started a family when they were in their late teens or early 20's, 36 who were in their late 20's or early 30's and 14 who were in their late 30's or early 40's. Daniels and Weingarten found some differences among the three groups. The mothers who were in their late teens and early 20's, for example, relied on their family for help, whereas the older mothers received more help from their husband. In addition, couples who postponed parenthood were more likely to regard their child as an intrusion. But almost all of the couples, regardless of age, found that they had to put their marriage on hold while they coped with a new baby. ''No one timing pattern has only advantages,'' Weingarten says.
REGARDLESS OF when a couple choose to have a first child, the mother usually ends up doing most of the parenting chores. When Robert Reed, 34, and his 29-year-old wife, Wendy, of Troy, N.Y., had a baby last year, Mrs. Reed quit her full-time job to stay at home. She spent so much more time with her son than she did with her husband that she came to think of herself as ''95 percent a mother and 5 percent a wife.'' Now, she says, ''it's a little easier, mostly because the baby is more independent.'' But she still does most of the work.
Mr. Reed, the head lacrosse coach at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, works near home, and occasionally stops in for lunch. But during the school year he spends only about an hour a day with his son, Travis. ''I never had any idea how much work it would be to take care of him,'' he says. ''My wife says I should do more. She's probably right. I'm not helping as much as I should.''
One reason why so many new parents assume gender-specific roles might be the different self-images that men and women develop after becoming parents. The Cowans and Jay Belsky have found that when a woman becomes a mother, her sense of herself as a wife and a worker tends to decrease. When a man becomes a father, however, he often still thinks of himself primarily as a worker and a husband. ''The role of parent remains primary for most mothers and secondary for most fathers,'' says Belsky.
Men whose wives work outside the home often spend more time caring for their children, but sometimes at the expense of their marriage. Ann C. Crouter and Susan M. McHale, associate professors of human development at Pennsylvania State University, compared 20 young, single-earner, blue-collar couples whose first child was 2 years old or younger with a similar group of 20 dual-earner, blue-collar couples. They reported that the fathers in the dual-earner families helped more with tasks such as feeding, changing diapers and putting the baby to bed. But the more chores they did, the more likely they were to be dissatisfied with their marriage and to say that their love for their wife had diminished. Compared with the husbands who were the sole breadwinners, these men were more likely to say that they quarreled with their wives frequently and that their wives yelled at and criticized them.
When men do spend a lot of time caring for their infants, they tend to do so only out of necessity. When his wife works the night shift, Paul Slivinski, 28, of Taunton, Mass., cares for their daughter, Jenna. Mr. Slivinski confesses that he never expected to spend so much time with the baby. In fact, he has had to cut back on his night-school classes and playing in his band. ''I've had to make a (Continued on Page 40) lot of sacrifices,'' he says, ''and I spread myself a little thin.''
Susan Slivinski, 31, would prefer not to have to rely on her husband's help. But because they need a second income, she often works five nights a week. ''Jenna doesn't see my face the last thing at night,'' she says, ''and I don't like that.''
Some women who stay at home full time admit that although they want their husband to be more involved with the baby, they have difficulty relinquishing control. Ginni Morani says that when her husband tries to help out, she has to force herself not to correct him. ''It's so hard not to,'' she says. ''I try to keep my mouth shut.''
''If I roll around with the baby on the floor,'' Mr. Morani says, ''my wife says, 'Don't do that, she just ate.' I think, 'Oh, so what.' '' When he is alone with the baby, Mr. Morani does what he thinks is best for her, although he acknowledges that ''it feels strange'' to make even a simple decision, such as what the baby should wear, because ''my wife usually does that.''
Women who have quit their job to stay home with their baby sometimes unwittingly sabotage their husband's efforts, Carolyn Cowan believes. Perhaps that is because these women view motherhood as their only remaining domain. ''Women want men to be involved, but they push them away when they try,'' Cowan says. ''And men want to be involved, but they don't like to be criticized, so they give up too easily.''
FOR MANY COUPLES, one of the most disappointing aspects of new parenthood is the gap between their egalitarian expectations for family life and reality. Many husbands and wives expect to share responsibility for breadwinning, and they do. But the related expectation on the part of many women - that their husbands will share household and parenting chores - is often unrealized. ''Many women believe that sex roles have changed a great deal more than they actually have,'' Jay Belsky says. ''Our ideology has outpaced our practice by leaps and bounds.''
Expectant parents rarely discuss their assumptions about the amount of work each will do, according to Diane N. Ruble, a professor of psychology at New York University. She has studied the effects of unrealistic assumptions about parenting by interviewing 670 women who were either pregnant or new mothers. Most of the pregnant women anticipated that they would be saddled with more child-related tasks than their husbands, but only 12 percent expected the difference to be significant. Almost half of the new mothers, however, said that they were actually doing much more of the work.
Ruble's research also indicates that women whose expectations are violated are more dissatisfied with their marriage than those whose ideas were more realistic. Women whose husbands were helpful during pregnancy may expect equality, she says. But after the baby is born, ''just when they need more assistance, their husbands think everything is back to normal.''
All this is not to say that new parents are powerless to avoid marital devastation. Most experts agree that both men and women stand a better chance of enjoying the rewards of parenthood if they prepare themselves. ''In childbirth classes, couples get ready for one day, then they spend the next 20 years on their own,'' says Philip Cowan, meaning that these classes don't address the stresses of raising a child.
The Cowans have developed a technique for preventing, or at least minimizing, early-parenthood problems. Small groups of couples meet with trained leaders before and after the birth of their babies to discuss five issues that the Cowans believe have a bearing on postpartum marital happiness: the degree of each spouse's sense of well-being; the quality of the relationship between husband and wife, as well as between the couple and their families; the intensity of each parent's bond to the child, and the amount of support the parents receive from family, friends and colleagues. These workshops have been beneficial. New parents who have participated report being more satisfied with their roles and duties at home than similar couples who did not attend such a group.
There may be no way to keep the baby bomb from hitting the household. But with advance warning and preparation, couples can learn how to build themselves a durable bunker.
 
Delayed Childbearing
THE STRESSES AND STRAINS OF HAVING A BABY are common even among the increasing numbers of people who are postponing parenthood until they have established their careers, eased into married life and become financially secure.
''The most important social change regarding parenthood is timing,'' says Arthur J. Norton, a demographer at the Census Bureau. ''People are bearing children later. The transition to parenthood is much more planned than ever before.''
At a time when many middle-class people have trouble affording a house, postponing parenthood is regarded as almost a necessity. ''The fertility pattern of women bearing children in the 1980's looks like the pattern of women bearing children during the Great Depression,'' says S. Philip Morgan, an associate professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania. Morgan, co-author of ''First Births in America,'' believes that ''delayed childbearing is a time-honored tradition in harsh economic situations.''
Among the roughly 1.6 million women who had a first child in 1987, about 16 percent were 30 years or older, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. This figure has tripled since 1975. - C.R.

GRAPHIC: photo of Susan and Paul Slivinski and their daughter (Paula M. Lerner/Woodfin Camp)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; STRESS (HUMAN); MARRIAGES INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); PARENTING (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); BASEBALL (73%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (69%); STATISTICS (64%); GOLF (50%); 

PERSON: RUBENSTEIN, CARIN SEGOLENE ROYAL (74%); 



218 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 22, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 5067 words

HEADLINE: America Tackles The Pesticide Crisis

BYLINE: By Susan Gilbert; Susan Gilbert is a freelance writer and editor on The Good Health Magazine.

 BODY:
JIM KNUTZON IS SITTING IN THE restaurant of the Hilton Hotel in Pleas-anton, Calif., near Oakland, solemnly regarding the plate of swordfish smothered in sauteed vegetables just set before him. With his head bowed, he delivers what might be construed as a modern-day meditation. Knutzon, a former pesticide salesman who now advises farmers on pesticide alternatives, expresses the hope that people across America will soon be able to sit down to meals that are free of toxic pesticide residues. This said, he begins to eat.
Knutzon's wish is not unrealistic. There are powerful stirrings throughout the country, from the vast fruit and vegetable farms of California to the cornfields of Iowa to the apple orchards of New England, not to mention Capitol Hill, indicating that America is making substantial changes in the way it grows its food. Tens of thousands of farmers have scaled down their use of pesticides they relied on for decades -compounds that in many cases were not adequately tested for safety and are now known to be dangerous to human health. Major supermarket chains and food manufacturers are refusing to buy produce that contains even minute, legally permissible residues of certain pesticides. And Congress is considering a bill that would, in all likelihood, restrict the use of dozens of pesticides to such an extent that they would no longer be profitable to produce. 
In lessening the nation's dependence on agricultural chemicals, farmers, food manufacturers, supermarkets and legislators are all taking their cue from the top of the food chain: the American consumer. People are now well aware that good nutrition and all-around healthful behavior can work in tandem to help spare them from many of the illnesses that claimed their parents and grandparents. But the increasing evidence that pesticide residues in foods can cause cancer and other serious health problems has transformed the private matter of eating well into a political issue with a resounding message: Get hazardous pesticides out of the food supply and do it now.
AS JIM KNUTZON SEES IT, farmers have been twice victimized - first, by the Government and the chemical companies, which led them to believe that pesticides were safe. And, second, by the public, which now expects farmers to give up pesticides overnight. ''Still, more and more farmers are saying, 'If consumers are lit up about pesticides, I ought to be a thousand times more lit up,' '' he says.
Knutzon recently joined NutriClean, an Oakland, Calif., company whose goal is to get most pesticides off the farm and out of the American diet. Toward this end, the company serves as a consultant to both supermarkets and growers. Among the alternatives to pesticides that NutriClean recommends to farmers is the release of insects that are actually beneficial, because they prey on other insects before those bugs can prey on a crop. Ladybugs, for example, eat the eggs of most of the worms that eat lettuce and cabbage.
The trend away from agricultural chemicals is strongest in California, where about 53 percent of America's vegetables and 42 percent of its fruits and nuts are grown. In California the number of organic farms, which use no manmade pesticides or fertilizers, has doubled in the past year, to about 1,500. In addition, thousands of other California farms now use pesticides -a term that encompasses insecticides, herbicides and fungicides - only as a last resort. Together, these farms grow and ship to the rest of the country virtually every kind of fruit and vegetable that Americans eat regularly: lettuce, tomatoes, celery, carrots, broccoli, oranges, peaches, grapes.
Driving his white Mercedes on the dirt roads that surround his farm, Don Goldberg, a grape grower in Delano, Calif., in the San Joaquin Valley, proudly points out the differences between his field and that of his neighbor, the Dole Food Company. Goldberg, who is co-owner of the Skyline Ducor Ranch, has been able to reduce his pesticide use by 78 percent in the past three years, chiefly by releasing beneficial insects onto his 400 acres. Larvae of such insects as the green lacewing are literally sprayed onto the field either by a crop-duster or by a rig fitted on top of a tractor. These bugs devour mealybugs, thrips, worms, mites and other pests that can devastate a grape crop.
The soil between the rows of Dole's grapes is completely free of weeds, a sign that herbicides are routinely sprayed. By contrast, the soil between the rows of Goldberg's grapes is barely visible under a covering of tall grasses and flowers. Those plants provide three things: a breeding ground for beneficial insects; nitrogen for the soil, which in turn reduces the need for fertilizer, and a lure for harmful insects that would otherwise attack the grapes.
''This is a holistic system,'' says Goldberg, a trim, athletic-looking man with white hair and bronzed skin. His point is that no one technique can serve as a substitute for pesticides.
Even something as simple as redesigning his grape trellises has helped Goldberg reduce the amount of pesticides he must use. He has found that by making the trellises taller and wider, more air circulates between the vines, thereby significantly decreasing the risk of fungal infections.
The transition from chemical to nonchemical farming can be costly, often requiring an initial investment of many thousands of dollars. But, as Goldberg sees it, farmers don't have a choice: ''If the consumer wants a two-door car, don't try to give him a six-door car. I saw this trend coming, but it got very intense this year because of that Alar thing and that Meryl Streep.'' The public was galvanized into acting against pesticides by a shocking report last February from the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. The report concluded that children face a tremendous risk of getting cancer and other health problems, such as kidney damage and depressed immune function, from pesticide residues in fruits and vegetables. According to the council, the cancer threat to children is as much as 460 times greater than is considered acceptable under Federal law. The main reason children are so vulnerable is that they eat many times more fruit and fruit products than the average adult - on whom the Government bases its safety standards.
Among the N.R.D.C.'s findings: Between 5,500 and 6,200 of today's preschoolers may get cancer sometime in their life solely because of their exposure to eight pesticides in amounts typically found in fruits and vegetables - amounts that are well within Federal limits. In addition, at least three million of today's preschool-age (Continued on Page 000) children are being exposed to other pesticides in fruits and vegetables at levels - again, legal levels - that are potentially harmful to the brain and other parts of the central nervous system.
The chief villain in the N.R.D.C. report was Alar, a growth regulator that, as of last spring, was sprayed on about 15 percent of the nation's apple orchards to make the fruit ripen at the same time. A number of studies had found that when the treated apples were processed - to make apple juice, for instance - Alar broke down into a potent carcinogen called unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine, or UDMH. There was evidence, too, that Alar itself was carcinogenic.
Alar quickly became a symbol, and the actress Meryl Streep spearheaded a crusade against it. In television and newspaper interviews she urged parents to buy organic produce. And in passionate testimony before the Senate, she suggested that the Government's failure to take Alar off the market amounted to little more than a laboratory experiment on the nation's children. The public responded with a vengeance. School cafeterias stopped buying apples. Supermarkets stopped doing business with Alar-using growers, and growers got stuck with warehouses full of suddenly unsalable fruit.
As a result, Uniroyal, the manufacturer of Alar, stopped selling it in the United States last June. (The company still sells it abroad.) But that was only one step toward safer food.
As an indication of the scope of the problem that remains, the National Academy of Sciences has listed more than a dozen foods in which pesticide residues present potentially significant risks. Tomatoes top the list. Next is beef, because the grains fed to cows contain pesticides that accumulate in the animals' tissue. The other foods cited by the academy are potatoes, oranges, lettuce, apples, peaches, pork, wheat, soybeans, all other beans, carrots, chicken, corn and grapes. The academy believes that these foods account for 95 percent of the health problems associated with pesticides.
One reason the academy considers pesticide residues so dangerous is that they can't all be washed off. Apples, tomatoes and cucumbers, for example, are typically coated with a fungicide mixed with wax to keep them looking fresh and prevent them from spoiling. The wax makes it impossible for the fungicide to be rinsed off. And, while peeling fruits and vegetables may get rid of pesticides on the skin, it doesn't remove those that are absorbed by the plants' leaves or taken up by the roots. These pesticides, known as systemics, become part of a plant's chemistry. Bananas, potatoes and melons are among the crops often grown with a systemic called aldicarb, which even in small amounts can cause temporary nervous disorders, stomach cramps and various other ailments in children.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL PRO-tection Agency does not dispute the scientific findings that legally permissible levels of pesticides can be dangerous. Indeed, the agency has estimated that pesticide residues cause 6,000 cases of cancer each year - many more than exposure to asbestos in homes and schools and as many as passive smoking. While that figure is less than 1 percent of the 900,000 cases diagnosed each year, health experts point out that cancers caused by pesticide residues are preventable. ''Among the easiest cancers to prevent are those with causes that can be regulated by the Government, like pesticide residues in foods,'' says Dr. Robert N. Hoover, an epidemiologist at the National Cancer Institute.
What many people find difficult to comprehend is why the Government permits harmful pesticides to stay on the market. The National Academy of Sciences says the Government actually understates the dangers of pesticide residues because it relies on outdated information. The E.P.A. estimates that Americans eat about one avocado, one artichoke, one nectarine, one wedge of melon, a quarter of an eggplant and a handful of mushrooms each year. But health-conscious individuals are likely to eat far greater amounts of these foods. Department of Agriculture statistics indicate that consumption of many fruits and vegetables has increased significantly in recent years, largely at the urging of nutritionists and health authorities such as the Surgeon General. It is ironic that, in striving to improve their health, people end up consuming more pesticides. This is not to say that people are wrong to change their diets. But the National Academy of Sciences points out that as consumption of fruits and vegetables rises, the need to restrict pesticide use becomes more crucial.
In the E.P.A.'s defense, Rick Tinsworth, an official in the agency's pesticide programs, says that in many cases delays in banning chemicals are caused by protracted court hear-(Continued on Page 52) ings. (The E.P.A. has banned only 26 pesticides since it was created in 1970, although it has said that about 70 now in use are carcinogenic in animals.) While admitting that ''some cancellations of pesticides take too long,'' Tinsworth explains that chemical companies routinely bring lawsuits against the Government for trying to ban their products, arguing that there is a lack of scientific data. He cites bureaucratic ''glitches'' and insufficient funds as other factors that slow down the process of banning pesticides. In 1988, the budget for reviewing the risks associated with pesticides was just under $14 million, an amount that Tinsworth maintains was inadequate to finish the task before ''well into the next century.''
Many agricultural and health experts believe that despite its financial constraints, the agency has been dragging its feet. ''E.P.A. has become averse to being sued and has only taken chemicals off the market that have been uncontested,'' says Charles M. Benbrook, executive director of the National Academy of Sciences' Board on Agriculture. The academy has recommended that the E.P.A. be required to accelerate its review of all 40,000 pesticide products that came on the market without proper testing. In part because of that recommendation, Congress last year passed an amendment to the pesticide law that orders the agency to complete its review by 1996 and doubles the budget for doing so. The academy has also urged Congress to simplify the law, stating, in effect, that it is so labyrinthine that even E.P.A. bureaucrats don't completely understand it.
A bill currently before Congress would both streamline the law and make all pesticides subject to more stringent health standards. For the first time, the effects of pesticide residues on infants, children, pregnant women and other vulnerable people would have to be taken into account. If a product has the potential to cause more than one case of cancer for every million people exposed to it, any of the following actions would occur: the product would be banned for use on particular crops; the number of times it could be applied to a crop would be reduced, or, if these restrictions were inadequate, the pesticide would be swiftly taken off the market - regardless of its benefits to agriculture. The bill, sponsored by Representative Henry A. Waxman and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, could result in the biggest change in American farming since the green revolution.
TOGETHER WITH THE IN-vention of mechanized farm equipment and the hybridization of vigorous crops, pesticides helped bring about a lifesaving explosion in food production. Chemical fertilizers and pesticides have been instrumental in enabling farmers to grow all the food the world needs; that hunger still exists is largely a distribution problem.
Most pesticides used today are man-made compounds. The first widely used synthetic pesticide, DDT, was sprayed by the United States Army during World War II to prevent the spread of malaria by killing mosquitoes. It was so effective that by the end of the war, American farmers had begun applying it to their crops to kill a wide range of other pests.
Contrary to popular belief, the health problems associated with pesticides did not begin with DDT. For centuries farmers relied on natural poisons such as arsenic, lead and copper, and according to historical accounts, fruits and vegetables would occasionally come to market dusted with these pesticides.
As far back as 100 years ago, journalists were writing that the residues might be dangerous. But their warnings were largely ignored by the public because there was no scientific proof. An article in The New York Times on Sept. 25, 1891, under the headline ''Poisoned Grapes on Sale,'' reported that the city's Health Department had ordered that all grapes covered with a greenish powder be removed from grocery store shelves after determining that the coating on some of the grapes was a potentially toxic concentration of copper sulfate. Other cities in the East then threatened to ban the sale of all grapes. (Continued on Page 54) Fearing for their livelihood, a number of Hudson Valley grape growers appealed to the United States Department of Agriculture for help. The U.S.D.A. insisted that the residue was safe and criticized the Health Department for overreacting. In the days that followed, the paper changed its tone, referring to the incident in one headline as ''That Silly Grape Raid.''
At about the same time that the Agriculture Department was proclaiming the safety of New York State grapes, Britain and France were passing laws restricting pesticide use. In 1892, an editorial in The British Medical Journal warned that apples and other produce imported from the United States might be poisonous, because they often arrived covered with arsenic powder. The response of American apple growers was to accuse the journal of attempting to hurt their sales.
Although the apple growers refused to abandon pesticides, many American farmers in the late 19th century still did not use them, either because they didn't think they needed them or because they feared being poisoned. The number of holdouts was significant enough to rattle the Agriculture Department, which went as far as to put pressure on farmers who didn't apply arsenic, lead or other poisons to their fields. At the department's urging, several states passed laws requiring that all farmers use insecticides, on the theory that the insects in unsprayed fields were bound to infest neighboring farms.
After the turn of the century, medical evidence mounted that pesticide residues on fruits and vegetables were poisoning and in some cases killing people. Emotional pleas for reducing pesticide use were made in books, magazines and newspapers. More than 50 years ago, a book titled ''40,000,000 Guinea Pig Children'' made an appeal strikingly similar to Meryl Streep's: the author warned that children were especially vulnerable to pesticide poisoning because they ate more fresh fruit than adults. As a result of such evidence, the Federal Government in 1947 passed the first law explicitly regulating the use of pesticides.
The law went into effect just as DDT was gaining in popularity. Once farmers had DDT, which worked faster and killed more insects than any chemical they'd ever used, they rapidly abandoned arsenic and other age-old pesticides. Confident that they had the ability to conquer their chief enemies, many farmers expanded their operations. Small farms with a patch of lettuce here and some tomatoes there turned into large farms with a thousand acres of nothing but lettuce. Farming became a factory-style business. And soon after DDT came on the market, other powerful pesticides emerged.
But now enter Rachel Carson. Her book ''Silent Spring,'' published in 1963, described as never before the threat of pesticides, conjuring up a ghostly American landscape: birds were absent, cows had stillborn calves and people lay dying of cancer, all because of pesticides in the air, water and food. Carson, a biologist, supported her case with scientific evidence that DDT and other pesticides persist in the environment for decades, entering the food chain and building up in the tissues of humans and other animals; she also pointed out that babies swallow pesticides with their mothers' milk.
After the publication of ''Silent Spring,'' a consensus grew among scientists and Government officials that pesticides as they were being used had the potential to harm human health. Federal regulations governing the testing and use of agricultural chemicals were strengthened, and in 1972, DDT was banned. (It is slow to break down, however, and is still one of the most commonly found residues in many foods grown in this country.) Despite the increasing awareness of the dangers of pesticides, the amount of chemicals deposited on American farms continued to grow.
The use of agricultural pesticides in the United States peaked in 1982, when 880 million pounds were sprayed, a tenfold increase in the nearly 40 years since synthetic pesticides were introduced. During the same period, farm productivity more than doubled. Clearly, large-scale commercial farming could not exist without any pesticides. But since 1982, their use has been declining, as more and more farmers have come to realize that many of the chemicals they once routinely applied to their fields are not really necessary.
THE DECLINE IN PESTICIDE use is welcome news to people concerned about their health, but many experts take the position that as long as most farmers ignore effective alternatives to insecticides, herbicides and fungicides, these chemicals are being overused. A report released last month by the National Academy of Sciences concludes that alternatives to pesticides not only work but are economically viable. The report indicates that the potential exists for an even greater transformation of American farming than the one now under way. ''You don't need any of the worst chemicals,'' says Charles Benbrook, whose staff helped put together the report. He says that even if a significant number of pesticides were suddenly taken off the market, ''there's no way that any major fruits and vegetables would become unavailable.''
The alternative farming methods cited by the academy include the widespread use of disease-resistant crop varieties, the introduction of beneficial insects and crop rotation - planting a crop in a different field each season to prevent insects, fungi and microbes from gaining a foothold in any one area. In places where these methods would not work for particular crops, the report recommends that they simply not be raised. ''Most fruits and vegetables probably would not be able to be grown in the Southeast, because in hot, humid climates, pests are too great a problem,'' says Benbrook. ''Even now, the cost of pesticides is killing farmers there.'' He believes that virtually all of the nation's fruits and vegetables - the crops that are most vulnerable to insects and diseases - should be grown in California and other hot, dry Southwestern states, where the alternatives to pesticides work best.
Jim Hightower, Texas Commissioner of Agriculture, who for a number of years has initiated programs in his state to encourage farmers to adopt non-chemical practices, attests to their success. ''What we've had here, and what we found elsewhere, is that farmers doing this kind of agriculture make money,'' he was quoted as saying a few weeks ago. ''They pay off their notes; they pay for tractors and they do it without crop subsidies. There is a conversion coming.'' A reduction in pesticide use sometimes means higher food prices. One need only walk the aisles of a health-food store to see that many organic fruits and vegetables are selling for double or more the price of conventionally grown produce. It's true that organic farming is labor-intensive, and labor is expensive. Still, many people are willing to pay more for what they believe to be healthier food.
But what many supermarket chains around the country, including some of the largest, have begun to prove is that people don't have to pay much, if anything, more for produce with little or no pesticide residues. Several of these supermarkets, among them Stop & Shop in the Northeast and Raley's in the Sacramento area, sell fruits and vegetables that have been certified by NutriClean as having no pesticide residues detected in laboratory tests. The produce comes from farms that are not necessarily organic but that keep pesticide use to the minimum.
''Only rich people can buy organic food,'' says Stanley Rhodes, the president of NutriClean. ''With our system, we can keep food at market prices and, most important for consumers, get pesticide residues out of the food.'' Rhodes is a former 60's rebel who now wears a suit and tie and sits in a large corner office overlooking the modern buildings of downtown Oakland, Calif. He is the son of a wine maker in the Napa Valley who refused to use grapes grown with pesticides, just like his father, his grandfather, his great-grandfather and his great-great grandfather - all wine makers in Germany.
Rhodes, who holds a Ph.D. in chemistry, is quick to point out that he is not antipesticide. Some pesticides help protect the public from natural substances that are harmful; aflatoxins, for example, chemicals produced by a fungus that grows on peanuts and corn, are much more potent carcinogens than any fungicide used to destroy them. And Rhodes says that some of the toxins that plants themselves produce to fight off insects may be just as dangerous to human health as pesticides. For these reasons, he eventually would like to test food, whether it is grown conventionally or organically, for the presence of all kinds of toxic substances. But for now, his focus is on pesticides.
In addition to certifying produce, each week NutriClean takes samples of all the fruits and vegetables delivered to the supermarkets that participate in its program and tests each one for the presence of up to 200 pesticides. If any are found, NutriClean immediately notifies the supermarkets; the stores can return shipments that contain food with residues in excess of legal limits. At the end of each week, NutriClean circulates a memorandum to the markets listing those farmers whose goods showed residues that week and those whose produce didn't. The philosophy is simple: Information is power. What this really amounts to, Rhodes says, is giving consumers more power over their own food system. NutriClean's success has prompted a few other companies to jump into the food-testing business.
THE FEAR OF BEING blackballed by supermarkets is but one of many factors that are causing farmers across the country to cut down on pesticides. In Iowa, for example, some 300 growers of soybeans, corn and other grains are trying alternatives to pesticides because the state government is encouraging them to do so. A law passed in 1987 caused a sharp rise in pesticide prices by increasing the fees that manufacturers must pay to register the chemicals and that retailers must pay to sell them. The fees help fund a research program that gives farmers information on alternative means of pest control .
Following their colleagues in California, New York and a number of other major agricultural states where organic farms have been certified under voluntary programs for several years, New Jersey's organic farmers recently set standards for certification. New Jersey ranks in the top 10 in the nation in the production of various fresh fruits and vegetables, including peaches, blueberries and tomatoes, and the certification program is giving many conventional farmers the incentive to try organic methods.
Frank J. Stiles, a second-generation New Jersey farmer, is cultivating about 90 of his 200 acres organically this year. His organic crops include tomatoes, bell peppers, broccoli, cauliflower, melons, blueberries, asparagus and apples. ''The more you read, the more you wonder whether you need it all,'' he says, referring to the pesticides he relied on. ''You worry about your safety and your workers' safety.''
Instead of using synthetic insecticides, Stiles uses a spray derived from a bacteria that kills worms without harming anything else. He eliminates other insects by releasing their natural predators, and controls weeds with thick layers of mulch and weeding machines. To fight crop diseases, Stiles uses copper and sulfur sprays - the same pesticides that were so controversial in the past - but he applies them in smaller amounts and well in advance of harvest time to help minimize residues. None of the pesticides he uses are systemics, so they can be washed off.
So far, Stiles's results have been mixed. ''The crops aren't as good as with chemical controls,'' says Helen Athowe, a horticulturist who man-ages the organic portion of the farm. ''We will probably have more crop losses.'' While Stiles's experience is fairly typical of farmers who try to switch to organic methods, Athowe is confident that the problems they've encountered are solvable. After a few years of organic farming, growers tend to learn which methods work best on which field, and their crops generally improve.
IN THE MAJOR APPLE-producing states of Washington, New York and Massachusetts, organic apple farming is extremely difficult. Apples have been grown for so long in these states that the insects and diseases that plague them are strongly established. But with the help of state and private programs aimed at reducing pesticide use, many growers have cut back on spraying without harming the quality or quantity of their fruit. In fact, in a five-year experiment begun in 1978 by Ronald J. Prokopy, an entomologist at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, 40 orchard owners were able to reduce their use of insecticides by 40 percent and bring down their costs without sacrificing yields or quality.
Alar was a crucial tool for many of these growers - those who raise McIntoshes, in particular - because it helped prevent the fruit from dropping prematurely and attracting insects that would then attack the trees. David G. Bishop, a McIntosh grower in Massachusetts and Vermont, says that without Alar he had to make one extra application of insecticides last summer. Even so, Bishop's overall pesticide use was less than it was seven years ago, when he stopped spraying all of his trees according to a fixed schedule and adopted a policy of applying pesticides only when and where they were needed.
Although consumer demand bears much of the responsibility for the recent decline in pesticide use, farmers point out that it was consumer demand that impelled them to use pesticides in the first place. Americans like uniformly red apples, unblemished tomatoes, peaches without bruises. But such cosmetic perfection can be achieved only with pesticides. It was Alar, for example, that made McIntoshes enticingly red; this year's crop is expected to be streaked with more green, although the change in color will not affect the taste.
A study by the California Public Interest Research Group concluded that 40 to 60 percent of the pesticide applications on tomatoes and 60 to 80 percent of those on oranges are made primarily for cosmetic purposes. But in another study by the group, two-thirds of the consumers surveyed said they would pass up a flawless orange in favor of one with scarred skin that was grown with half the amount of pesticides.
Consumers are beginning to realize that the best-looking produce is not necessarily the best for their health - and demanding what is. Now that farmers have strong economic incentives to stop using so many pesticides, Charles Benbrook predicts that what is now called alternative agriculture may, in a decade or so, be mainstream.

GRAPHIC: Photo of pesticide being sprayed. (Douglas Kirkland)(pg. 22 & 23); Photos of fruit (Rick Rriedman & David Strick)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PESTICIDES AND PESTS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES PESTICIDES (92%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); NUTRITION (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); FOOD MFG (71%); CHEMICALS (71%); CHEMICALS MFG (71%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); LEGISLATION (66%); CANCER (63%); 

PERSON: GILBERT, SUSAN



219 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 20, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: CRIME

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

 BODY:
In their relentless quest for a decent apartment in Manhattan, New Yorkers sometimes resort to UNORTHODOX PRACTICES (Pocket Books, Paper, $3.50), an apt title for this hilarious first mystery by Marissa Piesman, co-author of ''The Yuppie Handbook'' and, more to the point, a practicing real estate attorney. Nina Fischman, the Legal Aid housing lawyer who makes her snooping debut here, suspects foul play when two elderly clients die unexpectedly, leaving vacant prime apartments with absolutely no trace of cockroaches. The sinister significance of this unheard-of situation is also not lost on Nina's mother, Ida, a shrewd Upper West Sider whose profound grasp of real estate issues should be an inspiration to us all.
Feisty Ida instigates whatever serious detective work needs doing in this snappy caper, freeing Nina for other important activities, such as shopping at Loehmann's. The Fischman women are delightfully brash - ''Try thinking of us as chroniclers of the human spirit,'' Nina suggests, ''instead of a bunch of yentas'' - and what they have to say about the agony and the ecstasy of living in New York City is funnier than the co-op ads in the Sunday real estate section. 
 
*
 There's nothing gentle about spring in southern Louisiana. It comes roaring into the Atchafalaya basin, James Lee Burke tells us in BLACK CHERRY BLUES (Little, Brown, $17.95), shaking life into the sluggish bayous and stirring the fishermen, roustabouts and rednecks to jump into their pickups and punch up some Waylon on the tape deck.
Like spring on Bayou Teche, Mr. Burke makes a lusty racket when he writes about the local life that courses through the cottonwoods and clatters down the highway. But although he gives his Cajun hero, Dave Robicheaux, the lyric voice to celebrate his bayou home, he denies him the peace to enjoy it. For reasons murkier than a river bottom, the former New Orleans policeman must flee to Montana to escape a psychopath.
The scenery in Montana is also nice, prompting more bursts of lyricism about trout fishing in Blackfoot River canyon and sudden rains over the Mission Mountains. Some vivid characters wander onto the scene, including Dave's old buddy Dixie Lee Pugh, a burned-out blues singer with a mouth still on fire. But the thin story that emerges between nature studies and character portraits deals implausibly with a Mafia takeover of Indian lands.
With so little real action to occupy him, the soulful hero falls into his old, self-indulgent habits of analyzing his dreams and examining his conscience for existential guilt. Even in Montana, the soliloquies of this bayou Hamlet get pretty soggy.
 
*
 Nice of Simon Brett to take pity on Charles Paris. In A SERIES OF MURDERS (Scribners, $16.95), the alcoholically inclined and perennially unemployed actor-sleuth of Mr. Brett's satirical theatrical mysteries has actually landed a j-o-b, on a new mystery series being filmed for British television. Too true, these period dramas are, to Charles's jaundiced eye, ''a bit arch and mimsy-pimsy,'' besides being ponderously written and pretentiously produced. But so long as the actor can count on gainful employment, he's not complaining - at least, not until he realizes that a fatal backstage accident was probably murder.
When the show leaves its cozy rehearsal quarters (at St. John Chrysostom Mission for Vagrants Lesser Hall) to go on location, and when another ''accident'' occurs, Charles steps up his rather desultory sleuthing and peers more closely for suspects among the benighted production company. Could the killer be the ''completely cardboard actor'' who stars as the hammy detective hero? Or the cynical screenwriter who declares, ''If I delivered 'Hamlet' to this lot, they'd come back to me with a great pile of notes''? Or perhaps the prurient stage manager, who suggests, ''Maybe we should play up the soft-porn element in this series''?
They're all guilty, of course; if not of literal murder, then surely of murderously funny backstabbing and lethal character assassination. Such lovely company for dear Charles.
 
 *
 Stephen Solomita, a former New York cabby, is barreling around the city in a new vehicle, FORCE OF NATURE (Putnam, $19.95), that's built hard and rides like a tank. So, better not expect any subtleties from this sequel to ''A Twist of the Knife,'' which returns the police detective Stanley Moodrow to his Lower East Side turf on a manhunt for a homicidal crack addict who is terrorizing the entire precinct by indiscriminately cutting down cops and drug dealers.
The ethics driving this procedural are simple enough. ''What you done, you gotta pay for,'' Moodrow tells the rogue cop who has been harboring the deranged killer in exchange for a piece of the drug sales. The veteran police officer and his rookie partner also encounter no moral ambiguity on the street, where they enlist the aid of dope dealers, prostitutes, gangster bikers and the local Mafia don, among other strikingly well-drawn denizens of the area. ''You kill him, man,'' one taxpayer counsels Moodrow. ''Shoot him like a dog in the street.''
Mr. Solomita gives his maverick cop an appealing philosophy - ''There's gotta be someone to speak up for the neighborhoods'' - and some unorthodox guidelines for separating the criminals from the solid citizenry. If the author has a blind spot about the middle class, he's loaded with compassion for the tattered humanity clinging to the lower rungs of society. His peeled-back views of crack houses, rotting tenements and shelters for the homeless certainly seem authentic; so do his feelings of sorrow and outrage.
 
*
 In his thoughtful new mystery, WORSE THAN DEATH (Holt, $17.95), Thomas Bunn examines the emotional complexities and the technical legalities of parenthood. Adoption is difficult in Michigan, and surrogate motherhood arrangements that involve money transactions are illegal. So the Lansing private investigator Jack Bodine risks his license just by taking on the case of a couple who paid $20,000 for a Vietnamese infant. But Bodine is moved by the adoptive mother's anguish when the baby girl is kidnapped and the baby broker demands an additional $10,000 for her return.
The author's unwavering focus on the substantive issues of parenthood keeps the story from turning into a conventional search-and-grab adventure. All the characters involved in this tricky case contribute to its complications by injecting their own strong, and often messy, feelings as biological, adoptive, foster or would-be parents. The detective himself is such a devoted dad he takes his 8-year-old son along on stakeouts. Although Mr. Bunn writes in a curious, deadpan style - everyone, including a family of Vietnamese, speaks in the same flat, precise idiom - he addresses serious questions about a painful subject, and doesn't presume to have the answers.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: UNORTHODOX PRACTICES (BOOK); BLACK CHERY BLUES (BOOK); SERIES OF MURDERS, A (BOOK); FORCE OF NATURE (BOOK); WORSE THAN DEATH (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); WRITERS (78%); LAWYERS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); LEGAL AID (71%); RIVERS (68%); JAZZ & BLUES (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); 

PERSON: PIESMAN, MARISSA; BURKE, JAMES LEE; BRETT, SIMON; SOLOMITA, STPHEN; BUNN, THOMAS; STASIO, MARILYN JAMES LEE (68%); 



220 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 8; Page 12, Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: About Cars;
BMW Cuts Back On Price of Luxury

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
Conventional wisdom has it that luxury cars are bulletproof.
The manufacturers like that word, bulletproof. It means that no matter what happens to the economy, them-what-has goes out and gets.
But . . . . they aren't. They may be going out, but they aren't buying. So BMW has made more equipment standard and cut its prices, chopping as much as $5,000 off the ticket for its fancy 735 sedans. 
The stickers of the mid-level 525 and 535 also have been reduced by $2,000, and that says a fair-to-middling amount about the state of today's luxury and near-luxury markets.
''I think sales are off because of things affecting the whole luxury-performance segment,'' Carl Flescher said Friday, a day after the West German company announced the rollbacks. Flescher, BMW's vice president for marketing, said competition was one of the keys.
''There just isn't room for everybody,'' he said.
Flescher's ''everybody'' points a finger at Nissan and Toyota, which have recently gone mountain climbing with their Lexis and Infiniti nameplates, following the lead of Honda, which has done nicely with its thirtymething Acura division.
''This market peaked at about 1.4 million units in 1986,'' Flescher said. ''What we have today is about 1.1 million, and every manufacturer has been affected.''
In the United States, BMW's sales for the first nine months of 1989 totalled 49,987, compared with 53,286 last year; the company is plainly hurting, as are its competitors.
Part of the problem, at least for the imports, has been the weakness of the dollar against other currencies, but that is changing.
''We went through a period of enormous challenge when the dollar was in free-fall,'' Flescher said. ''We had to manage that at the same time that we were introducing an array of new products, and that obliterated the price-value ratio of our cars. But the strengthening and stability of the dollar gave us a chance to take an action like this.''
What BMW is saying, Flescher said, is that the market has changed.
What he also said is that his company hurts less than the likes of Porsche, which has counted heavily on the American buyer and on a very sporty lineup.
For 1990, BMW will offer 13 models in a wide range of styles. BMW sells only 15 to 18 percent of its product here, relying more on its home market and its worldwide sales than on the U.S. Yuppie.
Germany is home to about 190,000 of BMW's sales every year, compared with 70,000 in the United States. Of the latter, more than half are the entry level 3-series models, although the biggest single seller is the 525i, whose price has been cut to $35,000 from $37,000.
In America, Flescher said, much of the young professional market was vulnerable to the market plunge of 1987.
''The area that was hit hardest was New York,'' he said. ''So many individuals who worked in the stock market lost work or lost money, and that slowed the sale of expensive cars.''
Along with the cuts, BMW announced that it would not use incentives to sell its cars, calling them a device that ''erodes value.''
But the announcement was accompanied by a mailing to recent buyers, who will receive a certificate to be applied to the purchase of a new BMW within the next three years.
A letter, designed to head off anguished cries from those who paid the old and higher prices, told the owners they were reaping both the benefits of the new policy and the lower prices of the future.
''What we want to do is to regain our position,'' Flescher said. ''We have introduced more new products than anybody else in the last three years, and we are going to continue with that. But we want our effort to be driven by sales, not by production.''
What is hoped for, he said, is a very clear notion about BMW's commitment to the American market, and ''a signal to a lot of consumers out there to come back and look at BMW, because the cars are more affordable than they think.''
Bayerische Moteren Werke decided to go after the market for expensive cars years ago, but it was only in recent times that the company really got serious about high-ticket items. And it put its technology where its advertising was with 1989's 750il, a sedan sporting a V12 engine.
The new 750 costs an uncut $70,000 and may be worth it. Yes, I said that, although neither my wife nor my bank wants to hear it.
The 750 is the best car I have ever driven, and I'd truly be lusting after it if BMW wasn't planning to introduce an even better sport-coupe version next June.
I hope it will be more affordable than I think.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMW3 (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES LUXURY GOODS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); MOUNTAINS (66%); 



221 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7, Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL NOTEBOOK;
Players Cashing In Before Playoffs End

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Last winter, Scott Sanderson was convinced the Chicago Cubs were certain he would not make the team this year.
''I knew I'd be here at the end of the season,'' Sanderson said. ''But no one expected me to be on the team at the start of the season.''
Not only was Sanderson right, but the Cubs were wrong to the tune of an extra $300,000. That's how much the veteran pitcher earned in bonuses this year, and that's $100,000 more than his nonguaranteed salary. 
Sanderson is one of seven playoff pitchers who earned more than $100,000 in bonuses based on their pitching exploits. An eighth pitcher, Steve Bedrosian of San Francisco, picked up an additional $200,000, but that was because he was traded within a year after he signed his contract.
Besides the $300,000 Sanderson earned, Matt Young of Oakland got $250,000 more than his $75,000 salary, Jim Acker of Toronto made an extra $219,000, Rick Reuschel of San Francisco $187,500, Dave Stewart and Dennis Eckersley of Oakland $125,000 each and Atlee Hammaker of San Francisco $104,166.58.
Hammaker's windfall will actually be doubled because the amount he earned in bonuses this year will be added to his 1990 salary. Stewart's bonus income will also rise because he will receive $50,000, $75,000 or $100,000 depending on where he finishes in the Cy Young Award voting.
Nonpitchers have not fared as well with bonuses. Dave Parker and Tony Phillips of Oakland have earned the largest such payments among playoff hitters, receiving $75,000 each for number of plate appearances.
Sanderson had a contract heavily stacked with bonus provisions because he was coming back from a season that he spent primarily recuperating from back surgery.
''Our general feeling is we'd just as soon stay away from bonus situations for such things as games played and innings pitched,'' said Donald Grenesko, the Cubs' president. ''It can put the manager and the player in an uncomfortable position. The player can think that the manager is keeping him out purposely so he doesn't get his bonus.''
With Sanderson, however, the bonus arrangement was the right way to go, Grenesko explained.
''It made sense to have a small base and bonuses where he could make a substantial amount of money if he was healthy and pitched all season,'' the executive said.
Sanderson started 23 games and relieved in 14 others. Under the point system that is used in most such bonus provisions - 2 points for a start, 1 for a relief appearance - he accumulated 60 points. His bonuses were $60,000 for each of five point levels: 20, 30, 40, 50 and 60.
Thus, Sanderson's start last Sunday, in which he pitched two innings, was worth $60,000 to him because it gave him exactly 60 points.
''No matter what amount of money I make, in salary or incentives,'' Sanderson said, ''it doesn't enter my mind and I'd be surprised that it entered any pitcher's mind when he's out there pitching. We should all have a professional integrity about it.''
Grenesko said the Cubs did not give such bonus information to their manager.
''I don't know what Sanderson's perks are,'' said Don Zimmer, the Cubs' manager. ''I don't want to know. I got caught on that once.'' Zimmer recalled an incident from the 1976 season, in which he became manager of the Boston Red Sox. The team was out of the division race by the last month of the season, and Zimmer decided to take a look at some of the younger players, one of them at second base.
''Denny Doyle, who played a very big part in our going to the World Series the year before, came into my office one day,'' Zimmer related. ''He said I need so many games for so many dollars. I said: 'I wish you hadn't told me that. I want to see what this other guy can do.' He came in the next day and apologized and said, 'I never should have said anything; I put you in a tough spot.' I said, 'You did.' ''
 
Another Healthy Bonus
 Oakland's Young was another pitcher returning from an injury-wrecked season. He had a $75,000 salary, a payment of $100,000 if and when he returned to the active roster and a series of 11 $30,000 bonuses based on innings or games pitched. He appeared in 26 games, giving him 5 of the bonuses, or $150,000.
Acker relieved in 73 games for Atlanta and the Blue Jays. At $3,000 a relief appearance, he added $219,000 to his $250,000 salary.
Under Reuschel's bonus arrangement, he earned $12,500 for each of his last 15 starts, adding $187,500 to his $800,000 salary.
Hammaker, Reuschel's teammate, had a $775,000 salary and a bonus plan under which he received $50,000 for 16 points and $2,083.33 for each point from 17 through 64. Getting 2 points for a start, 1 1/2 points for relief appearances of 2 innings or longer and a point for a relief outing under 2 innings, he amassed 42 points and $104,166.58.
Stewart, who will probably finish second in the Cy Young voting and receive a $75,000 bonus, picked up $25,000 for being on the All-Star team and $100,000 for his 36 starts and 257Z innings pitched.
Eckersley earned an extra $25,000 for appearing in 51 games and $100,000 for the second successive season for his finish in the Rolaids relief standing. Last year he was first, this year second.
 
A's Are Richest
 Of the four playoff teams, counting post-season rosters only, Oakland has the largest payroll, slightly more than $17 million. Chicago has the smallest, $10.6 million. The average salaries compute to $711,188 for Oakland, $635,986 for Toronto, $592,340 for San Francisco and $441,854 for the Cubs.
Besides having the smallest payroll of the four teams, the Cubs join the Blue Jays in appearing to be in the best off-season negotiating position. The Cubs' three highest-paid players, Andre Dawson, Rick Sutcliffe and Ryne Sandberg, are already signed for 1990. The two unsigned players who figure to seek the biggest raises are Mitch Williams and Shawon Dunston.
The Blue Jays don't have to worry about George Bell, Tony Fernandez, Dave Stieb and Jimmy Key because they have contracts for next season. Fred McGriff will be their biggest economic problem.
The Giants have to sign Kevin Mitchell, Will Clark and Scott Garrelts. The Athletics have an expensive winter ahead because they have to deal with Rickey Henderson, Dave Parker and Storm Davis, who can be free agents, plus Jose Canseco and Mark McGwire.
 
A Rookie's Downfall
 With Ken Griffey Jr. running into injury and a falloff in performance, Tom Gordon, Kansas City's versatile pitcher, seemed to be headed for the American League rookie of the year award when he reached a 16-4 record (10-2 in relief, 6-2 as a starter). Gordon, in fact, gained his 16th victory three days before Bret Saberhagen recorded his en route to 23 victories and, most likely, the Cy Young Award.
In his next seven starts, though, the 21-year-old Gordon lost five times, won none, compiled an 8.13 earned run average, averaged only 4.5 innings per start and averaged 16.5 baserunners per 9 innings. He didn't win again until his last start of the season.
''In my view,'' said John Schuerholz, the Royals' general manager, ''what happened was he was exposed to the pressure of a pennant race and it took its toll in him. He tried to do more than he is capable of doing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (87%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO CUBS (91%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (70%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY DAVID KEITH 'DAVE' STEWART (69%); 



222 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 3; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Panel Discussion;
Preservation And Growth

 BODY:
With the mayoral election, changes in the new York City charter and a wave of commercial development under way in Manhattan, many experts are questioning whether the city has struck a proper balance beetween economic development, construction and historic preservation. Do architects, builders and neighborhood advocates share a vision of the urban environment? Are they working together for the city's betterment? 
These questions and the relevance of the election, the charter and ocmmercial development will be explored in ''Toward a Civilized City: Architects, Developers and Preservationists,'' a panel discussion sponsored by the New York Landmarks Preservation Foundation and the American INstitute of Architects.
Panelists will be Deputy Mayor Robert Esnard; Sally Goodgold, chairwoman of the City Club of New York; Hugh Hardy, a partner in Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Architects, and Fred Rose, chairman of Rose Associated, developers. The panel will be moderated by Barbaralee Diamonstein-Speilvogel, chairwoman of the New York Landmarks Preservation Foundation.
The discussion is to start at 5:30 P.M. Tuesday at the Urban Center, 457 Madison Avenue, near 51st Street. Admission is $7 and seating will be on a first-come basis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY (57%); HARDY HOLZMAN PFEIFFER ASSOCIATES (56%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (83%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION FOUNDATION, NEW YORK; ARCHITECTS, AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF (AIA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HISTORY (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); 



223 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 19, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: Prairie Growth;
In Sioux Falls, Commerce Blooms Like Wildflowers

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

DATELINE: SIOUX FALLS S.D.

 BODY:
AT first glance, the modern office buildings and an expanding mammoth retail center set amid grazing cattle and cornfields that edge this prairie city seem inappropriate investments for such a setting.
But they are far from speculative enterprises. Rather, they represent a response to the pressing business demands that, over the last five years, have changed the city's image, as the locals like to boast, from one of ''prime cuts to prime rates'' - an evolution from a meatpacking center as the home of John Morell & Company into a major Midwestern regional commercial center.
The activity is evident in the value of building permits for nonresidential construction for the first half of 1989 - $24.4 million, compared with $14.1 million in the first half of 1988, in itself a bumper period, according to Steve Metli, director of the city's Department of Planning and Building Services. 
An important trigger, local business leaders recall, was the 1981 arrival of the credit-card division of Citibank. Richard McCrossen, division executive for Citicorp's Distribution Services, said the division had fled New York to escape the strict limits on interest rates it could charge its customers.
South Dakota was one of the few states without such restrictions. And Sioux Falls, a metropolitan area with some 100,000 people in the southeast corner of the state, seemed the best choice, since it offers a relatively mild climate and one of the state's largest labor pools.
But even though interest-rate restrictions were later lifted in other states, it became apparent that Sioux Falls offered a lot more than a banking haven, said Mr. McCrossen. The area's appealing combination of low business and personal taxes, relatively low housing and commercial leasing costs, a low incidnece of crime and workers with ''a lot of old-fashioned pride in what they do,'' he said, became an unexpected enticement. So Citibank expanded from an original workforce of 50 people housed in 14,000 square feet of leased space to three custom-built buildings totaling 370,000 square feet at a total cost of $25 million that today accommodate 2,500 employees. Construction was completed in 1984.
Other credit-card operations are following. Sioux Falls now has Sears Payment Systems and the credit divisions of First City Bank of Texas as well as Norwest Financial Corporation of Des Moines. Together these companies are creating a credit-card and loan-servicing colossus that bills from here more than 15 million customers nationwide each month. This, in turn, has forced the local post office and the telephone companies to expand and modernize facilities in the city, generating yet further business appeal.
Thus, with businesses proliferating as fast and thick as the black-eyed Susans, tiger lilies and prairie roses in the nearby fields, Sioux Falls is becoming equally renowned as a major regional retail center, a rapidly growing medical center with treatment facilities not otherwise found outside major cities, and a transportation and wholesale distribution hub.
THIS has helped create a boom in commercial construction. Consider, for a moment, the expansion of the Empire Mall south of the city. Covering 93 acres, it is owned by the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States and managed by the General Growth Company of Des Moines.
It began as a relatively modest operation in 1975 serving the local population with 47 stores covering 599,000 square feet. It now offers four anchor stores - Dayton's, Sears, Younkers and J. C. Penney - and some 170 smaller stores in a total of 1.2 million square feet. General Growth puts the annual traffic at more than 10 million people, many of whom drive from 200 miles away.
This has led to a heavy demand for rooms in nearby hotels. The 105-room, four-story Encore, one of the city's more luxurious hotels barely 100 yards from the mall entrance, is now so regularly filled with overnight shoppers and business travelers that a major expansion is taking place. Designed as a round tower at one corner of the hotel, the addition, adding 58 rooms, is due for completion by next fall at an estimated cost of $3 million, said Peter Hegg, developer and general partner in the Encore.
In addition, the long-abandoned 90,000-square-foot square foot Shriver department store in the downtown area, dating from 1918, is undergoing a restoration that will create one of the city's first upscale period-style hotels at a cost of $4.8 million, according to Southeast Properties, the developers.
About two miles south of the mall, crews are at work on a 60,000-square-foot, two-story contemporary building costing $5.2 million that will house the credit-card operations for First City Bank of South Dakota. David Elgena, the bank's president, said the division had originally come to South Dakota from Texas in 1984 for reasons similar to Citibank's, leasing 45,000 square feet in two different locations on a trial basis.
A year ago a decision was made, he said, to purchase a nine-acre site for the new building with an option on another eight acres for possible expansion. Acquisition costs for the land were $1.50 per square foot with construction costs at $87 a square foot.
A major reason for the long-term commitment to Sioux Falls, said Mr. Elgena, was the quality of the workforce the operation could attract - including wives of farmers seeking to augment a dwindling farm income and graduates of the many small colleges here, where 38.9 percent of the population achieve some level of higher education.
Residents, Mr. Elgena added, have a strong work ethic. Local families are mostly of German, Dutch and Scandinavian descent. The explosion of jobs has even begun to attract young farm women who had been drifting to the major cities as nannies.
FURTHER, the modest cost of housing makes it easy, said Mr. Elgena, to draw executives from more costly parts of the nation. The average of cost of home in Sioux Falls is now $61,000 with taxes of $1,400 a year, according to local realtors. An ''executive-style'' home of 2,000 square feet with three bedrooms and two bathrooms costs about $120,000, according to Coldwell Banker, the national brokerage chain. Its recent nationwide survey of comparative housing costs shows Sioux Falls to be one of the nation's least expensive cities, with rents averaging $375 for a two-bedroom apartment. Further, relatively low incomes - on average no more than $20,000 for each working adult - plus an abundant supply of housing keeps home prices in check.
Don Dunham, president of the Sioux Falls office of Coldwell Banker, estimates that commercial leases are equally attractive. Class A space rents for about $12 a square foot, compared with $25 in Minneapolis and other major cities. And class B space goes for about $8 a square foot, compared with $18 elsewhere.
Local developers say these relatively depressed figures are the reason for so little speculative construction is taking place. ''We still cannot command the prices that make for a really good return,'' said Craig R. Lloyd, executive vice president of Lloyd LaCrow, a local construction company.
Tenants will not even accept an inflation adjustment on a commercial lease, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos of offices of the credit-card division of Citibank in Sioux Falls; First City Bank of South Dakota (NYT/Andree Brooks)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (98%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TEXAS NA (62%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIBANK LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SIOUX FALLS (SD)

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CREDIT CARDS (87%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PRIME RATES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); BUILDING PERMITS (69%); PROPERTY LEASES (68%); LEASING INDUSTRY (68%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE



224 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut and Westchester;
An Off-Key Tremor in Darien's Even Tenor

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
THE even tenor of life in Darien - a community known for its low profile, high incomes and relative freedom from commercial development - has been fractured for months by disputes over two pieces of property, one marked for low-income housing, the other a movie theater expansion, and by other indicators of change.
On May 26 the town bought for $2 million a 2.2-acre parcel from the Prindle and Hopkins families at Leroy Avenue and Squab Lane to build 30 units of public housing for town employees and the elderly.
United Artists, which owns the Darien Playhouse on the Post Road, wants to install four screens in the 1928 theater instead of one, without enlarging the building.
Objections to both projects have generated three suits and a referendum. 
The land purchase and its use were approved by the Representative Town Meeting and appropriate town boards last December. A referendum on Feb. 7 resulting from a petition drive by those hoping to kill the approvals produced a vote of 2,334 against and 1,508 for them, 262 votes short of the 25 percent of the 10,381 registered voters needed to void the town's action.
Fourteen citizens then sued in Federal Court, Bridgeport, challenging the validity of the 25 percent rule and seeking an injunction to prohibit the town from proceeding. The injunction was denied and decisions on the suit itself and in two additional suits, in State Superior Court in Stamford, are pending.
One Stamford proceeding, filed in February, charges illegal rezoning of the property from single-family residential to mixed use, allowing multifamily development through spot zoning, and violations of state fair-housing statutes prohibiting preferential treatment of specific groups as tenants.
The other Stamford suit, filed June 30 by nine residents against the town and United Artists, challenged a Zoning Board of Appeals decision permitting the theater - closed for three years - to operate with existing parking when its seating capacity is increased from 625 to 875, presumably creating heavy traffic in the area and burdening residential street parking.
''Anything less than a four-screen theater is not economically viable,'' said Wilder Gleason, the lawyer for United Artists. The project goes to the Planning and Zoning Commission Oct. 24.
The Playhouse and the Prindle-Hopkins property are contiguous. Behind them is Old Stone Road, which comes off Leroy Avenue and goes back to the town dump; north of the road are railroad tracks and south of it is commercial development and a condominium complex. Joellyn and Kevin Gray, who live on Old Stone Road, started the drive for a referendum and are plaintiffs in all three suits. ''Frank brought together a wide variety of economic groups concerned with losing the Darien we love,'' said Mrs. Gray, referring to Frank H. Wilcox, who won the Republican primary for First Selectman in September on a platform opposing public housing. ''I'm willing to do what people want,'' said Mr. Wilcox.
His Democratic opponent, Frederick Sammis, said that he would not approve multifamily housing ''if the need for affordable housing is not established.'' First Select woman Ann Mandel, a Democrat who advocated the housing, is not running again and did not respond to phone calls.
APART from these matters, the renovation of Goodwives Shopping Plaza, a drab, 30-year-old semicircle on Old Kings' Highway, has angered those who lost their shoe repairman, hairdresser, barber and other tenants who could not meet the rent increase.
''Some of those 30-year tenants were paying $6,000 a year,'' said Donald A. Direnzo, executive vice president at Cushman & Wakefield Realtors in Manhattan and one of the Goodwives Partners, a separate entity that bought the 100,000-square-foot shopping plaza in 1985. ''We hope to attract some major chains as tenants.'' He said rents will be around $25 a foot, slightly more than double what the tenants had been paying.
Two million dollars will be spent on new facades, windows, roofs, landscaping and building a clocktower. Grand Union, the plaza's supermarket, is investing an additional $4 million in its own renovation and expansion into 5,000 square feet of adjacent space.
Last July, the State Office of Policy and Management issued a report saying that while Connecticut is expecting a 12.6 percent increase in population by 2010, Darien will experience a 25.6 percent drop, from 20,336 in 1970 to 17,300 next year and 14,050 in 2010.
''High real estate costs play a part,'' said James Palma, planning analyst for the study. He also cited Darien's lack of facilities for the elderly and a general decline in the area as a result of corporate relocations and dissatisfaction with commuting.
Median prices for houses and condominiums in Darien have risen 2 percent this year, to $535,000 and $325,000, respectively, in spite of the soft market, according to Douglas D. Milne, president of Kelley-Milne Real Estate, a local firm.
''There is a need for affordable housing, but the minute the town acquires a piece of property the term affordable goes out the window,'' he said. ''Land should cost between 25 and 30 percent of a project. When it costs near $70,000 a unit, the final unit cost goes up to $220,000.''
Some residents fear being taxed for the projected overall cost of $5 million, including construction, if the town rejects state and Federal aid. ''People don't understand that there are a lot of longtime residents here like me who earn less than $35,000 a year,'' said Mr. Wilcox. ''This housing will require incomes of more than $40,000. It's ridiculous that we should be paying taxes for people who earn more than we do.''
Kevin Newman, a member of the town's Board of Finance, has worked out a series of rental plans indicating that household income eligibility would range from $24,000 to $37,000, depending on how much outside aid the town accepted.
''If the town were to do this it would be on the basis of getting some state and Federal aid, as we did for 53 units of moderate-income housing built in the 1950's and 30 units of low-income elderly housing completed in 1987,'' said Mr. Sammis.
Lewis A. Miller, a founder of Darien Community Homes, a nonprofit agency that promoted the existing low- and moderate-income projects, said, ''I hope Wilcox will be soundly defeated, but I doubt it. I'm discouraged at the moment.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of a house on the Prindle/Hopkins parcel, where the town would build 30 units of public housing.; United Artists wants to install four movie screens in the 1928 Darien Playhouse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED ARTISTS PICTURES INC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED ARTISTS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DARIEN (CONN)

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FILM (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ZONING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); PETITIONS (74%); INJUNCTIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (62%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR



225 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2359 words

HEADLINE: Fixed-Rate Mortgages Make a Comeback

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
AFTER an erratic six-month decline that brought mortgage rates down more than a percentage point since last spring, much of the nation is experiencing a minirevival of demand for home loans, most of it in plain vanilla fixed-rate financing.
The lower rates, although not enough to offset the sluggishness of housing demand in some areas, particularly the Northeast, have come as good news to buyers and lenders alike. With fixed-rate, 30-year mortgages widely available at 10 percent or slightly higher, surveys indicate that summer sales of low and moderately priced homes were robust.
''The cumulative impact of declines in interest rates since March significantly helped to open the housing market to entry-level buyers,'' said the National Association of Realtors in a report in September. Overall home sales in August, down sharply from the previous year, nonetheless increased a brisk 3.3 percent over July, the trade group said. 
In perhaps the clearest change, borrowers beat a speedy retreat from adjustable-rate financing, which as recently as January accounted for 63 percent of new home loans across the nation, according to a survey by the Federal National Mortgage Association. By August, the group said, the share of adjustables had dropped to 15 percent, the lowest level in two and a half years.
The shift had been predicted by bankers and thrift industry analysts, who now say it resulted from factors beyond the decline in fixed mortgage rates, which always makes them more competitive with adjustable loans. Indeed, many had been warning for years that the low initial rates or ''teasers'' charged on many adjustables made bad business sense, providing an insufficient return to lenders and prompting some buyers to exceed their budgets on the basis of artificially low first-year payments.
Now, in a year when the deep financial woes of the savings-and-loan industry have come to light in a Congressional bailout in which the assets of many lenders will be seized - dozens will go out of business and the Federal regulations on others will be tightened - lenders are changing their ways.
To be sure, nobody has stopped trying to package and promote home loans. Many lenders this year began offering what they call ''graduated payment'' loans that feature low first-year payments on fixed-rate financing. But borrowers seeking adjustable-rate loans can no longer expect a bargain-basement price during the first year. ''The teaser is all but gone, and we knew it had to happen,'' said Marc Stone, regional vice president of Crossland Mortgage Corporation, a major lender in New York City and its suburbs.
Like most mortgage lenders in the Northeast and Middle West, Crossland has avoided the soured loans and defaults that have plagued thrift institutions elsewhere, particularly in Texas and elsewhere in the Southwest. But the changes at Crossland are typical of policies across the nation: Its initial rate on adjustable loans, as low as 6.25 percent and 3 points below its fixed-rate financing in 1987, has risen to 9 percent, only 1 percentage point below the 10 percent financing it offers on 30-year, fixed-rate loans.
SOME experts warn that more changes are in the offing, and unlikely to benefit borrowers, as lenders adapt to stiffer Federal regulations. One key change, already adopted by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, is a rule that requires lenders to have on hand capital, mainly in the form of deposits, that comes to at least 6 percent of their assets, mainly comprising loans outstanding. The old rule had required a capital-to-asset ratio of 3 percent.
Analysts say some thrifts may respond by becoming less aggressive in lending and by charging borrowers more. Closing costs, points and other charges could go up, income and down-payment requirements could become more stringent and many types of loans could simply disappear from the industry's menu of financing options, they say.
''The experience of the Southwest has got to affect all mortgage underwriting,'' said Dennis Jacobe, research director for the United States League of Savings Associations in Washington. ''It means lenders will be more conservative and the cost for consumers will go up.''
But for now, mortgage companies, thrifts and commercial banks continue to compete intensely to make mortgage loans. And even though traditional fixed-rate loans are in vogue, many lenders are promoting alternatives.
One option proliferating around the country is a loan with payment schedules that are fixed, but are graduated in a way that allows borrowers to pay far less in the first years. And many mortgage companies are promoting lending policies that require little or no income verification from borrowers.
''Lenders are competing as though they were in a gas war,'' said Edward Goldberg, executive vice president of the Midlantic Home Mortgage Corporation, a major mortgage lender in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. He added that some may have become too liberal in qualifying borrowers, particularly at a time when home values in the New York area and elsewhere in the Northeast are holding steady or declining.
But for now, because rates have fallen to a level that is drawing more buyers into the market, and with the resurgence of demand for the most conservative, time-tested form of home financing, lenders are under little pressure to change their approach.
''This is a period of laissez-faire bidding for mortgage loans,'' said Robert Heady, a thrift industry analyst in Florida.
And Thomas Cirillo, managing director of real estate and business banking for Citibank in New York City, said: ''It is probably fortuitous, but at the moment we are in a fixed-rate market, and that relieves pressure on the industry.''
INTEREST rates, although dropping throughout most of the year, have not done so in a straight line. An analysis by HSH Associates, a Butler, N.J., company that tracks mortgage lending across the country, found that the national average on 30-year, fixed-rate loans originated in the last week of September was 10.16 percent; the low for the year was 9.82 percent, in early August, and the high, 11.33 percent, in mid-March.
The first-year rate on one-year adjustable loans had also come down, HSH said, to a national average of 8.67 percent at the end of September from a high for the year of 9.44 percent in mid-April.
Average rates in the New York metropolitan area were slightly higher than the national average - 10.24 percent on a fixed-rate, 30-year mortgage originated in late September, and 8.75 percent on the first year of a one-year adjustable loan.
As always, those buying cooperative apartments in New York City and its suburbs paid an interest-rate premium over those buying houses or condominiums. HSH said the average rate on a fixed-rate co-op loan was 10.68 percent in late September, and on a one-year adjustable it started at 9.02 percent.
Lenders say they charge higher rates to cooperative buyers - who are technically buying shares in a corporation instead of title to their homes - because it is much more difficult to resell co-op loans than conventional home loans into the nation's secondary markets for mortgage financing.
FORECASTS of interest rates, never very reliable, offer little help now because economists differ widely. But whichever way rates move over the next six months, most agree that the change will be modest.
Mr. Heady, publisher of Bank Rate Monitor, has one of the most optimistic forecasts, saying he expects rates on fixed-rate, 30-year loans to drop by 0.75 by March. He said lenders would lower their rates to compete for business as loan demand goes through a normal downturn in the winter months.
If rates fall below 9.5 percent on fixed-rate mortgages, as Mr. Heady is predicting, lenders say they expect a surge of demand from people refinancing existing mortgages. Although such refinancing carries the price of points and other loan initiation fees, it becomes attractive to many people if they are paying off fixed rate loans with rates 2 percentage points or more higher than the current rate.
Refinancing at below 9.5 percent would also be attractive to homeowners with adjustable loans who simply want to lock in their payments at a relatively low, constant rate, experts said.
Although refinancing picked up modestly during the spring and summer - accounting for about 25 percent of the business - lenders said they did not expect a larger demand at the current interest-rate level.
Some economists are looking into a different crytal ball than Mr. Heady's and saying that recent indications that the economy is robust will prompt the Federal Reserve, which is worried about inflation, to tighten credit. That would mean higher rates on all types of loans, including mortgages.
David W. Berson, chief economist for the Federal National Mortgage Association, said he expects rates on fixed-rate 30-year mortgages to move up by 0.5 to 0.75 percentage point over the next year.
''Most economists are expecting the economy to weaken and rates to trend downward, but that is not our view,'' he said, adding that higher rates would ''weaken demand for housing.'' Another result, experts said, would be renewed interest in adjustable-rate loans, which are still being offered with initial rates 1 percent to 1.5 percentage points below fixed-rate financing.
Between the two differing forecasts, most experts have accepted the view that, for now, interest rates will hover at about 10 percent or slightly higher on traditional fixed-rate loans and that these loans will be the most popular.
''Recent economic data may delay the downward trend in rates, but fortunately we don't see much in the way of further upward pressure either,'' said Gordon Shanks, president of the Home Mortgage Assistance Corporation, a mortgage lender in Manhattan.
Although demand for adjustable-rate financing has been sharply reduced, lenders across the nation are experimenting with loans that carry fixed rates and graduated payments. That means borrowers can pay below-market rates early in the term of the loans, and the payments will be increased in six- or 12-month intervals. But unlike adjustable-rate financing, where payments are pegged to the movement of other interest rates and are impossible to predict, graduated payments are established in advance for the entire term of the loan.
Borrowers usually pay a premium for the graduated-payment feature, either through higher loan intitiation fees or by paying a higher underlying fixed rate for the mortgage than for standard fixed-rate financing.
ONE example of the approach is at Citibank, which is marketing its graduated-payment mortgage as the ''Home Owner's Key.'' Borrowers pay a fixed underlying rate of 10.75 percent, slightly higher than is being charged on traditional, nongraduated fixed-rate loans by other lenders in the New York area.
But the advantage is that borrowers can pay an intitial rate during the first year of only 5.75 percent, far below the teaser rates - where they still exist - on adjustable-rate mortgages. To qualify, the borrow deposits money in what the bank calls a ''subsidy account,'' which is used to subsidize his payments, effectively prepaying a small part of the mortgage.
In the case of a borrower with a $100,000 mortgage, the bank said, a subsidy account deposit of $798 would be required and would be used up over the first two years of the loan. Beginning at 5.75 percent interest, the borrower's monthly payments would start at $895.83 and increase 7.5 percent a year, reaching a maximum monthly payment of $1,309 in the eighth year of the loan.
SOME lenders say the most dramatic change in their practices over the last year has not been in interest rates or payment schedules, but in their approach to qualifying borrowers. For many, particularly mortgage banking concerns, which do not take deposits and sell all their loans to a secondary market, the so-called ''nonverification'' loan has become standard business procedure.
''Many lenders have determined that if they are getting a down payment of 20 percent or more, it lessens the need to verify incomes or assets and it speeds the process up,'' said Richard Peach, an economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, which last month released a survey of 30 large mortgage banking concerns that found 51 percent of their loans were being approved with reduced documentation, or none at all.
Like graduated-payment loans, the nonverification financing normally comes at a price of increased loan initiation fees, higher interest rates, or both.
Although they are popular among borrowers who do not savor the time and aggravation it can take to provide tax records, formal statements from their employers and other documents normally required in mortgage lending, critics say lenders may be offering the nonverification loans too liberally.
Even though the loans require down payments of 20 percent or more, which should be an ample amount to cushion the lender against losses if the borrower defaults, some say the sluggishness in some housing markets could lead to trouble.
One area of concern is the New York metropolitan area, where experts say the prices on some properties have fallen in the weak market of the last 12 months. Indeed, in some cases where homeowners have been under pressure to sell, they have had to take prices 10 percent to 20 percent lower than they would have in the stronger market of early 1988. That kind of price movement can only be unsettling for lenders. At Crossland, Mr. Stone said loans were being extended to people without verification of their assets, but the policy of qualifying people without documentation of their incomes had been eliminated in recent months.
And at Midlantic, which continues to originate loans to some people with no verification of their incomes or assets, Mr. Goldberg said the policy is coming under intense internal scrutiny.
''That kind of loan assumes that real estate prices will appreciate or at least hold their own,'' he said. ''Time will tell whether we run into trouble.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 8 about a comeback for fixed-rate mortgages misidentified a lender. It is the Home Mortgage Acceptance Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1); graph of the average interest rates on mortages in '89 (source: HSH Associates); the number of both adjustable & fixed rate mortage applications in '89 (source: Federal National Mortgage Association) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (68%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); CROSSLAND MORTGAGE CORP (60%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (68%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J



226 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 21, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Trimming the Fat From School Costs

 BODY:
Right on, Mr. Gerber! (''Trim the Fat From High Cost of Education,'' Opinion, Sept. 24). I am a founder of the East Northport-Northport School Tax Watch and believe he hit the target. Our district still has 10 schools and half the students of a decade ago. We have one superintendent and three assistant supers. We have just given the teachers' union approximately an 8 percent increase for the next three years. The average salary is around $40,000 and it costs about $11,000 to educate each student.
Northport has lived high off the hog because of the Lilco plant, which pays around 40 percent of the school taxes. Yet, our taxpayers rose up last spring and defeated the budget by a 3-1 margin. People voted who confessed it was their first time or their first school vote in 10 years. They were angry and distressed. But only when they felt threatened, did they bother to participate in school affairs. 
This is a problem Mr. Gerber did not address. I served on the school board three years until I was defeated by a union-backed candidate. In that time, I repeatedly tried to reduce budget items: trips to New York City, jaunts to conferences, social programs not connected with education or the classroom teaching; with no success.
I failed because the Board of Education never heard from the taxpayer-owners of the schools protesting the cost of education. Only the young parents wanting more services - extra business, all-day kindergartens, more staffing - appeared, and always the same two or three warners about costs. When they stood up to speak, the board tuned out because we knew their song. The board is bombarded with student claques, organized by teachers, to ask for more - new classes, new sports, increases in funding.
How can board members, bombarded at each meeting with ''Gimmee! Gimmee!'', understand the anger of people who no longer have children in schools, who see taxes a threat to their home ownership and do not understand that state-mandated programs cause some of the cost increase?
It is hard to stare at 25 eager young faces, representatives of unions, and the administrative staff and say, ''No.'' You are elected because of union backing; you live in the community. You will be attacked as cruel to children, as destroyers of the family and betrayers of education.
Since you, the board member, never hear the other side, it is easy to go along with the ''Gimmees'' (an all-day kindergarten has validity), especially in a booming economy. Only this spring did the nay-sayers express their outrage and vote down the budget.
To break the cycle of rising costs, the so-called selfish senior must come out of their homes and take action. Groups like ours must reach out to all taxpayers and show that fiscal prudence does not mean the destruction of our schools. Older people must come to board meetings to express their opinions and to learn the difference between mandated and discretionary costs. The board must hear from more than three people. The seniors cannot leave their voice to the same three people. Secondly, seniors must be more willing to run for the thankless task of running a school district. Running a $65 million business is not for amateurs. School districts need members with financial experience on boards; members who can resist the ''Gimmee'' pressures of vocal minorities.
The boards desperately need the continued interest of all taxpayers in running a complicated but essential system. Our students are our future. However, school districts cannot bankrupt the present for the future.
 
ELEX INGERSOLL
 Northport
Send letters to The Editor, Long Island Weekly, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); FAMILY (69%); 

PERSON: INGERSOLL, ELEX; GERBER, IRVING



227 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 2, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: FAIR LAWN JOURNAL;
For the Automobile's Sake, An 1855 House Faces Razing

BYLINE: By ALBERT J. PARISI

DATELINE: FAIR LAWN

 BODY:
ITS shutters hang at odd angles, and many of the windows are broken. A wraparound front porch, once the hallmark of Victorian splendor, is now weatherworn and buckled. But for James R. Croucher, 58 years old, the battered house brings back visions of a time when neighbors knew neighbors and farm life revolved around the rising and setting sun.
Pointing to the front of the house, he noted sadly that his grandmother's porch swing was only a memory now. ''Over there is where we all gathered after breakfast to get ready for work,'' said Mr. Croucher, a pharmacist and salesman for a national pharmaceutical company, ''and over there is where we gathered after dusk and talked until it was time for bed.''
In mid-October, the 17-room frame house, known historically as the Hopper House, will be razed to make way for a highway cloverleaf connecting Fair Lawn Avenue and Route 208 here. It is the house where Mr. Croucher grew up, but more importantly, he says, it epitomizes an era of New Jersey history when farming ruled the local economy and labor was not measured in a five-day work week but in crops picked and bushels filled. 
Over the last two years, Mr. Croucher and both the county and borough historical societies have joined in efforts to save the house. Letters to state officials were written and plans for a cloverleaf redesign were studied, but changes would have proved too costly to undertake, he and state transportation officials said.
''I understand the reason the house has to come down,'' said Mr. Croucher, accompanying a recent visitor to the 134-year-old farmhouse originally built by Henry Hopper, a former state legislator and county sheriff, ''but progress has a way of dealing a nasty blow to communities that forget their past.''
The new cloverleaf is essential, officials say. With increased traffic congestion on both the highway and Fair Lawn Avenue in recent years, automobile accidents have soared. Even though the house is a local landmark and a state-registered historial site, the designation offers no protection against its destruction under the circumstances.
''When we first learned of the state's plans, we thought that perhaps if we moved the house to a different location, it could have been saved,'' Mr. Croucher said. But it would cost nearly $120,000 to have the structure braced and lifted from its foundation. The cost would have been too expensive for the historical groups' limited budgets.
Several years ago, another historical site here, the Cadmus House, had been saved in such a fashion, at a cost of $60,000, but the structure was considerably smaller than the Hopper House, said Carl J. Koenig, president of the Fair Lawn Historical Sites Preservation Corporation.
''Such a move involves a major project,'' Mr. Koenig said, ''and if we were to take the Cadmus House as an example, that was only moved two blocks and the cost was very high.''
While officials stress the benefits of the cloverleaf, many longtime residents here say that the landmark house stands as a reminder of a bygone time when Bergen County, and indeed most of the state, flourished in a farming economy. In recent years, according to the State Department of Agriculture in Trenton, the number of active farms in New Jersey's 21 counties have drastically diminished.
Landowners have increasingly chosen to give up tending the soil for meager profits. Instead, the Department of Agriculture said, landowners have chosen to profit from lands that have turned many former farms into vast tracts of commercial and housing developments.
''Landmarks such as this should be preserved for our youth so that they can learn from it,'' Mr. Koenig said. ''Our life is so fast paced today, and children can't understand that a slow life on a farm could be rewarding.''
Built in 1855 as the main house of the 300-acre farm, the Hopper House was partly rebuilt in 1890 after a fire destroyed one wing and part of the roof. In 1919, the house and 55 acres were bought by Mr. Croucher's grandfather and were owned by the family until 1954.
The property was then sold to a local developer, who converted the house into real-estate offices. The house was sold to the state in 1988 and has remained vacant since. Many of its Victorian fixtures and artifacts have been stolen.
''Growing up in the house in the 1930's and 40's was a special time for me, not just because it was my childhood but because of the small community, we all knew one another and relied on each other's help,'' Mr. Croucher said. ''All that has changed today. People don't know one another.
''Since that time as a child, I've never heard the sound of wind blowing through the trees so distinctly, or the sound of horses being led to pasture or the quiet whispers of voices on the front porch after a hard day at work. Time stood still for adults and children alike, until we broke the silence with a game of kick the can.''
He recalled that from his bedroom window at night, he was able to see a nearby clock tower and that the clock face ''stood out in the distance like a big old moon that was full.''
While the house's fate has been decided, Mr. Croucher did convince the state to save a towering blue spruce that he and his brothers and sisters had planted as a sapling. The county plans to erect a plaque commemorating where the house stood.
Though a construction crew is awaiting word to demolish the house, state officials authorized an archeological dig on the site to study 19th-century life.
''We've come up with some interesting and unusual finds,'' said Dr. Rebecca Yamin, an archeologist with the Ebasco Environmental Corporation of Lynhurst, which supervised the dig. In addition to bits and pieces of pottery and glassware, team members were able to study an underground well system and the house's foundation.
David Zmoda, an archeologist who is the transportation agency's project site manager, said: ''It's a shame to see any old house like this go, but at least we're able to record a portion of the history here before it's lost forever.''
Lois Dekker, 38, of Fair Lawn, a great-great-granddaughter of Henry Hopper, came to the site recently with a family album filled with photographs and letters that she wished to share with the study team.
''If I had the money, I would have bought the house outright and tried to restore it,'' she said. ''There are many great memories here, and they are memories that we must pass down to all concerned.''
For Mr. Croucher and his brother Warren, there will be more than memories to cherish about the house.
''When we were kids sitting in the kitchen, I remember my grandfather giving us each a quarter and that was a lot of money back then,'' James R. Croucher said. ''We were fooling around and Warren, by accident, dropped his coin behind a section of paneling and he was heartbroken.''
After the house was sold for demolition, Mr. Croucher returned and decided to pry open the paneling with a penknife.
''Off it came, and there on the floor was 100 years' worth of plaster dust and no coin,'' he said. ''I brushed away some of the dust and there was the coin, untouched by another hand for decades. I'll have it framed, or encased or something, then give it back to Warren for his birthday.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of James E. Croucher at Hopper House in Fair Lawn (NYT/Eddie Hausner); map highlighting the town of Fair Lawn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAIR LAWN (NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOPPER HOUSE (FAIR LAWN, NJ); DEMOLITION HISTORIC SITES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); HISTORY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (61%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (55%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (55%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PARISI, ALBERT J; CROUCHER, JAMES R



228 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 38, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: WESTCHESTER OPINION;
Having No Sense of Direction Is Neither Here Nor There

BYLINE: By Phyllis Heller Wharton; Phyllis Heller Wharton lives in Armonk.

 BODY:
I HAVE a terrible sense of direction. Having lived in Westchester County now for nearly 13 years I go by rote to most of my accustomed destinations: the supermarkets, library, mall, even to New York City. I have, I suppose, more or less memorized my way to these places, but this accomplishment was slow and painstaking in coming.
Sometimes I wonder about people's sense of direction. I have a friend who moved here from Santa Monica not quite five years ago, but almost immediately she could find anything. Not just content to reach her destination (as I always am), she found shortcuts and alternative routes to everything.
I remember setting off with her for Westport, Conn. I don't think she had lived here more than a year at that point. We were on the Merritt Parkway, coasting along at the speed limit along with all the other cars on the road, when she said: ''I'm getting off this road. The traffic is unbearable!'' I looked at her and realized she wasn't kidding. 
I never take an alternative route; not unless a road is closed and there is no possible option. She pulled off at the next exit, unfolded an enormous map she stored in the glove compartment and in minutes we were threading our way through an unknown town onto a string of auxiliary highways, arriving at our destination not only in good time but rather scenically.
I envied her her skill - or is it nerve coupled with a dose of inventiveness? I panic at the very thought of getting lost. I suppose I offend my own feminist sensibilities when I admit this, but I can't help thinking that a good sense of direction is a predominantly male characteristic, much like baldness and deep voices. It's not that I haven't come upon the trait in women - I have - but it seems more common in men.
I mentioned this to a friend and she disagreed. Her theory is that men are too stubborn to admit they are lost. I pull over and talk with anyone I can find when I even suspect I'm lost. Men will go for miles without blinking, - certain that they will find their way ''any minute.''
Maybe men are less worried about the consequences of being lost. I worry about the dark or being lost in questionable neighborhoods. Then there is the matter of the car itself. I feel on friendly terms with my car until it does anything out of the ordinary. When one of the little windows lights up on my dashboard, I go into a panic. My deal with my car is that I'll take care of it if it will take care of me.
I have it serviced regularly. No, frankly, I adhere to the suggested schedule of check-ups much the way the folks at NASA must go about meeting deadlines. My goal in car maintenance is to always beat the car to the mechanic before it realizes it needs to get there.
Sometimes I think my feelings of vulnerability - about being lost, not knowing my way, and all too often (though I would rather not admit it) of striking off for a destination and becoming hopelessly confused - have to do with not learnng to drive until I was nearly 30.
I was a non-driver, a situation that happened not by choice but because of economic circumstances. My mother's car had grown old and was beyond repair. We could not afford to replace it. When I turned 16 years old and was eligible to take driver's education in high school, it seemed pointless to take the course along with my friends, knowing that I would have no opportunity to practice. I didn't sign up when the list came around, though I do remember feeling terribly cheated and even embarrassed about it.
Driving is a real rite of passage for a teen-ager. It was all anyone talked about for months. As my friends passed their tests one by one and got their senior licenses, learning to drive seemed further and further away from anything that would ever happen to me. Later on, in college, I didn't need a car; everyone walked the small rural campus. Still later, I lived in New York City, where driving, even then, was a nightmare and garaging a car prohibitively expensive.
It wasn't until I married and we decided to move 30 miles north of the city that it became obvious that my time had come. I had not told anyone, but in the intervening years, as my friends went from novice teen-agers to seasoned pro's, I grew more and more certain that I could not do it.
Driving seemed to represent an enormous responsibility to me. What if I'm driving and cause an accident? What if I'm driving and my passenger is hurt? What if I wreck the car? But even more than that, I worried because of my rotten sense of direction, which was largely related to day-dreaming, and how scattered my thoughts often tend to be.
I didn't realize that after a time, after the initial newness fades and the mechanics of driving kick in and take hold, most good drivers seem set on automatic pilot.
These days I often reach my destination barely having noticed the trip because I am so caught up in my own thoughts. At first I felt a deep sense of panic, wondering if I had missed stop signs or red lights along the way. I have never had a ticket (except for parking) and am not given to speeding, so I must be obeying the rules of the road, I reasoned.
Except for my inability to really understand east from west (I seem to have mastered north/south) and my hopeless inability to ''feel'' my way home after I have struggled to get where I'm going, I enjoy driving. I can go where I want with no better reason than that I want to go. I still get a real kick out of that even this many years later.
There is a heady freedom for me that I experience when I decide to go somewhere, reach for my car keys, go out to the car and start off. This is probably a delayed reaction, a thrill better understood and recognized in teen-agers. For the first few years, when I was in my early 30's, I would go off to the drugstore for a tube of toothpaste or a bottle of shampoo, not because I needed the item at that moment, but rather to experience the freedom of not needing a ride, asking a favor or fitting into someone else's schedule.
In the spring and summer I sometimes get into my car, push open the sunroof, pop a favorite tape into the cassette and go out for a spin. I have a few favorite destinations, too. If my son is along with me we are apt to stop at Ben & Jerry's, but if I'm alone and have the time, I sometimes drive to the beach in Connecticut. I long ago learned my way along the back roads, and though it is a circuitous route and time-consuming to avoid I-95, I enjoy the trip.
I know I never feel more independent, young and carefree than when the windows are open, my hair flying, sunglasses in place, singing along with Elton John as I make my way.
Car ads pulse with enthusiasm and sex appeal. ''The heartbeat of America'' one intones with a steady rhythmic beat and a rugged male voice. A car is the first thing most boys buy. My son, not yet 12, has for years talked about buying a car and about what kind it will be. He has more than a passing acquaintance with the kind and patient man who works at a small foreign car showroom nearby.
Maybe by the time he's grown and carrying his own drivers license in his wallet someone will have invented a map with an automatic compass to orient him.
I need one that lights up with a big red spot stating, ''You are now here.'' Until then, I know I can never think of moving. I have conquered the county. Detroit take notice!

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); SPEED LIMITS (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (63%); 



229 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1989

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1, Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1795 words

HEADLINE: Into the Woods: Junk Cars and Old Stoves

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
A HIKER in the woods accustomed to rounding a corner and coming upon a deer or other wild animal is just as likely these days to confront a rusting Ford or a rotting La-Z-Boy. Across the state, many of the remaining unspoiled areas are fast becoming spoiled by the illegal dumping of automobiles, tire, furniture and major appliances.
State park officials and other custodians of public and private lands say the closing of many municipal dumps and the imposition of fees for such items as washing machines and refrigerators have brought an increase in the illegal dumpings.
''Durable goods - that's what they're called when they're made and that's what they are when they end up on our land,'' said Gerard E. Loiselle Jr., a spokesman for the Bridgeport Hydraulic Company, which owns 20,000 acres of largely undeveloped land throughout Fairfield County. ''We're seeing a dramatic increase in the amount of waste products being dumped on our land.'' 
Keith R. Cudworth, the superintendent of the White Memorial Foundation, the 4,000-acre wildlife sanctuary in Litchfield, said the problem becomes more obvious at this time of year. ''Once the leaves come off the trees, you'll notice a lot more - the miscellaneous trash bags, the major appliances,'' he said.
 
A Problem With Tires
''We've had refrigerators and stoves, a car one time, and our biggest problem has been tires.'' Mr. Cudworth said the dumping of tires increased after a nearby landfill stopped accepting them last year. He said someone once dumped 70 tires at one time.
Because of the illegal dumpings, White Memorial this year closed most of its roads and trails to motor vehicles.
''The state forests and state parks, in particular, have become an inviting place to dump off unwanted stuff,'' said John H. Spencer, the eastern district manager for the State Department of Environmental Protection. He said his crews have already hauled 65 cars out of the woods of eastern Connecticut this year, at a cost of about $200 each.
''Some of the things people do are just unbelievable,'' Mr. Spencer said. ''If somebody ever did the same thing to them, they'd be livid.''
''And I'm sure we're going to find a lot more in a few weeks,'' Mr. Spencer said. ''You don't see the extent of the problem until the leaves fall off.''
Jerry A. West, the operations manager of Sherwood Island State Park in Westport, said his crews had pulled cars, appliances, tires and other junk off the boat launches and flood control areas.
 
'A Real Problem'
''It's a real problem in places we don't patrol every day, where people can get in and out without being seen,'' Mr. West said. ''When they dump off trash, we go through it looking for a letter or something that has their name on it. If we find one, they get a littering citation through the mail.''
But in the more serious instances of illegal dumping, the haulers make sure all evidence of origin is removed, the land custodians said.
''And these problems are only going to increase,'' said John E. Hibbard, the executive director of the Connecticut Forest and Parks Association. He said he knew of a couple who recently paid $30 to dispose of two televisions.
''Unless something is done to lower the cost, some of that material is going to be discarded along the road,'' Mr. Hibbard said.
 
Outdoor Enthusiasts Suffer
For instance, many dumps now charge $1 or more to dispose of an old car tire. When dealers attempt to pass that charge onto customers, some of them take the tire away in their trunk and dump it in the first isolated spot they pass.
Mr. Hibbard, whose group maintains the 500-mile Blue Blaze trail system in Connecticut, said outdoor enthusiasts might suffer because of the illegal dumping.
''It goes beyond merely the degradation of the hiking experience,'' Mr. Hibbard said. ''People are sophisticated enough to realize that someone who abandoned an automobile was not up there hiking,'' Mr. Hibbard said. ''But you could predict landowners restricting public use of their property if the problem gets any worse.''
 
Dwindling Landfill Space
Most landowners blame the problem on dwindling landfill space.
''In our area, Redding is about the only town left with an active landfill,'' Mr. Loiselle said. ''And that's in the process of being phased out.''
Thomas H. Pregman, an environmental analyst for the solid-waste unit of the State Department of Environmental Protection, said part of the problem stemmed from the closing of a dozen bulky waste dumps for large items like tires and appliances over the last four years.
There are 35 bulky waste dumps in Connecticut, and some of the 21 mixed solid waste landfills that closed recently still accept limited amounts of bulky waste.
''But those are largely municipal operations and therefore handle only the waste generated in the town,'' Mr. Pregman said.
 
Stiff Fee Schedules
More towns have implemented stiff fee schedules for materials they will accept, Mr. Pregman added, and are turning away things like tree stumps that take up a lot of room.
''The majority of land clearing waste now goes off to who knows where,'' Mr. Pregman said. ''And even if the facilities are available, some haulers are still going to dump illegally if it's cheaper and they can get away with it. Right now, some of them have to haul it halfway across the state and pay $750 a load to dump it.''
Gian-Carl Casa, senior legislative associate for the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, said that another problem was junk cars. Years ago, the scrap metal in cars made them worth a few dollars, he said. But because of the processing costs and the depressed prices paid for scrap, it now costs money to have them hauled away.
 
Market for Scrap Metal
''Some people have been able to get gypsy towers, who give you a better deal on hauling a car away, but what they do with it you never know,'' Mr. Casa said. ''It may turn up on a city street or in a smaller town, out in the forest.''
In the last year, the market for scrap has improved, which has helped the situation somewhat, Mr. Casa said. While municipalities paid $100 to dispose of an abandoned car a year ago, they now pay no more than about $50, he said.
''People are still abandoning cars at the same rate, but because metal prices have moved up municipalities are towing them off the streets a lot quicker,'' Mr. Casa said.
He said his organization estimated that 30,000 cars were abandoned last year, and that the number would not be much different this year.
 
Boulders and Logs
Mr. Cudworth said that in an effort to control the problem, White Memorial had blocked many of the 50 entrances to the preserve's 35 miles of private roads and trails with boulders and logs, to discourage traffic.
''As far as people walking, there's been no restriction on access,'' Mr. Cudworth said. ''And we have tried to keep our patrolling pretty intense.''
Mr. Loiselle said it was impossible to have intense patrolling on the 20,000 acres of watershed land that Bridgeport Hydraulic owns throughout Fairfield County, but the company recently added a second position to its inspection crew.
He said four areas were especially troublesome for the water company: land near Booth Hill Road and East Village Road in Shelton; Velvet Street, a dirt road in Monroe and Trumbull, and Valley Road, a dirt road in Redding.
 
Demolition Material Along Road
For instance, the company recently found demolition material including displays and shelves from a large retail establishment dumped along Valley Road.
But there are also problems in areas that are heavily traveled, Mr. Loiselle said. On Route 58 in Easton, the company recently found four truckloads of roofing shingles and other demolition materials, and on Route 25 it found an entire tractor-trailer load of old tires.
''When the economic incentive increases, people take bigger risks,'' Mr. Loiselle said. Mr. Spencer said his unit had hauled junk from many areas in northern and eastern Connecticut, especially along the abandoned railroad beds that have been converted to public hiking trails.
 
Old Rail Beds and Viaducts
''It's very easy to drive up an old rail bed and dump off a car or washing machine,'' Mr. Spencer said. If the junk is tossed from an old viaduct or bridge, it can remain hidden for a long time, he said.
But Mr. Spencer declined to identify specific sites where dumping has been a problem. ''I don't want to give anyone else any ideas,'' he said.
''The worst part of it is that we have to spend time we desperately need for other things,'' Mr. Spencer said. When an abandoned car is found, it can take a crew of two or three park employees several hours to wrestle it from undergrowth and move it to a road, where it can be hauled away a junkyard. Meanwhile, he said, park maintenance suffers.
 
Threat to Water Supply
Mr. Loiselle said his company recently sponsored the reprinting of a pamphlet on household hazardous waste, and a public television documentary, ''Town Dump Closed,'' to make people more aware that illegal dumpers could be ruining everyone's water supply.
''We're trying to make the public aware of the problem, to become our eyes and ears,'' Mr. Loiselle said.
Thomas C. Jackson, a spokesman for the Regional Water Authority, which owns 24,000 acres throughout the New Haven area, said a few years ago, the company became alarmed at the amount of garbage being dumped on its property, and began issuing permits to hikers, anglers and others for recreational uses of the land.
''If someone's dumping trash next to your favorite fishing hole, you tend to get angry, and report it,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''The program allows people to join us as stewards of the land.''
 
Stiffer Penalties
Mr. Jackson said the company also employed four guards who patrol the utility's holdings and arrest illegal dumpers, and several other groundskeepers who look for evidence of illegal dumping.
Mr. Pregman noted that penalties for illegal dumping are now stiffer and less complicated to enforce. The old fine was $10,000 a day, but it took weeks or months to obtain a final order to levy the fines.
A new law that took effect last Sunday imposes a fine of up to $25,000 a day and up to one year in jail for violations of the waste laws, and the penalty doubles on the second offense.
In addition, a new criminal statute allows fines up to $100,000 and two years in prison for someone whose illegal dumping results in death or injury, with the penalties rising to $250,000 and five years in prison for a second offense.
''Things are real tough with the landfill capacities that are out there,'' Mr. Pregman said. ''But perhaps these tougher laws will make a dent in what's going on.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of trash dumped illegally along a hiking trail in Pagnut State Forest in Torrington (pg. 1); Robert Miska, park manager, by an abandoned car (pg. 32) (NYT/Don Heiny)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (69%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: BRIDGEPORT HYDRAULIC CO (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE MEMORIAL FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL MAMMALS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); STATE PARKS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); ANIMALS (78%); HIKING (78%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; CUDWORTH, KEITH R



230 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: JOBS BEING FILLED BY ILLEGAL ALIENS DESPITE SANCTIONS

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Despite the Government's effort to turn the workplace into the front line in the battle against illegal immigration, most illegal aliens are able to find jobs in the United States.
Immigration officials and other experts say most companies are trying to comply with the provisions of the 1986 immigration law that prohibit the hiring of illegal aliens.
But many illegal aliens continue to find jobs using fraudulent identity papers. Most of the rest are forced deeper into the underground economy, where few questions are asked, no records are kept and the potential for workers to be exploited is high.
''Like the undocumented workers already here who didn't qualify for amnesty, the new arrivals have not become unemployable in this country because of employer sanctions,'' said Wayne A. Cornelius, the director of the Center for United States-Mexican Studies at the University of California at San Diego. ''It's just that their range of job options may have been reduced somewhat.'' 
 
Fines or Jail for Employers
Congress imposed the sanctions in the hope that jobs would become impossible to obtain and therefore no longer would be a magnet for illegal immigration. Two years after the law began to take effect thousands of people continue to enter the country illegally every day.
The ease with which the law is being violated is raising increasing questions about whether migration from Mexico and other economically troubled nations can be deterred by the 1986 law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act. In addition to granting legal status to many illegal aliens, the law requires all employers to demand that new workers show proof of legal residency or other evidence of their right to work.
Employers who do not demand such documents or who are found to have knowingly hired an illegal alien are subject to fines of $100 to $10,000 for each violation. In the most severe cases, the law provides that employers may be jailed for up to six months, although no such sentences have been imposed. After a period of issuing warnings, the Immigration and Naturalization Service began fining employers in June 1988, and it is prosecuting them more aggressively.
Officials of the immigration service acknowledge that the law has not yet had its intended effect. But they say there are many promising signs, including a decrease in the number of aliens apprehended while crossing the nation's southern border and reports from illegal aliens themselves that good jobs are harder to obtain.
''People are still coming here and looking for jobs, and some are still finding jobs,'' said A. D. Moyer, Executive Associate Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.''But it's not as easy as it used to be.''
 
Fraudulent Documents Abound
By all accounts, the law is being undermined primarily by the spread of fraudulent Social Security cards, ''green cards'' signifying alien residency status and other documents widely accepted by employers as proof of the right to work. Employers are not required to verify the authenticity of the documents, and critics of the law call this a gaping loophole.
''Compliance with the law has come to mean compliance with the paperwork requirements,'' said Kitty Calavita, a sociology professor at the University of California at Irvine who studies immigration. ''Because of the ready availability of fraudulent documents, employers can comply and still employ the same people they always have.''
The law's effect is most visible at places like the intersection of Pico Boulevard and La Brea Avenue in Los Angeles, where dozens of illegal aliens wait every morning for employers seeking day laborers for construction, gardening, painting and cleaning jobs that generally pay less than $5 an hour.
Standing on the corner one recent morning, Francisco Javier Saldivar, a 38-year-old Mexican, who came here illegally about two months ago, said the law is undoubtedly having an impact, but not enough to stop the flow of immigrants.
 
Work One Day but Not the Next
Mr. Saldivar, who also spent time in the United States last year and in 1980, said: ''It was much easier then. Now it's hard to find work. In 1980 I could make $500 in two weeks, and now I'm making $4.25 an hour. I make about $300 a month because I'll work one day but not the next.''
''It's less secure,'' Mr. Saldivar said. ''Still, lots of people keep coming because life is very tough in Mexico.''
Neither the immigration service nor other experts see evidence that the law is prompting more than a handful of illegal aliens to return to their native countries, where the few jobs available pay far less than those here.
Immigration officials acknowledge that their task in enforcing the law is daunting. In Los Angeles, for example, about 70 agents are assigned to monitor roughly half a million employers.
''The law will only work, like tax laws, if the majority of employers comply voluntarily,'' said John Brechtel, the agency's assistant district director for investigations in Los Angeles.
Mr. Brechtel said the agency had been unable to thwart the widespread sale of fake documents. Although there have been nearly 100 convictions for the counterfeiting of documents in Los Angeles in the last year, the price of false documents has sharply fallen, Mr. Brechtel said. He said a fake Social Security card and a green card could be bought for $35. But several workers put the cost for a good set of the same documents at about $300.
 
Government Is Criticized
The immigration service's enforcement efforts have drawn considerable criticism. Peter Larrabee, a lawyer in San Diego who represents many companies in immigration cases, says the agency concentrates its enforcement on small employers, ignoring big companies that can mount vigorous legal defenses.
He also says the agency avoids cases against chronic employers of illegal aliens, because they keep no records.
''The employers whom the law was intended to go after are not being bothered at all,'' Mr. Larrabee said. ''They simply don't keep the records the I.N.S. needs to make a case. It's too difficult for the I.N.S. to make a case against sweatshop owners and the employers who pay people off the books.''
Mr. Larrabee said the immigration service most often prosecutes companies that try to comply with the law but inadvertently hire an undocumented worker or fail to keep paperwork properly.
The feelings among those companies are ''unanimously of total and absolute fear and confusion,'' Mr. Larrabee said. ''They don't understand why, when they fail to dot an 'i,' cross a 't' or date a form, they should get a $1,000 fine.''
 
Officials Say Enforcement Is Fair
IMT Inc., a machine shop in Fullerton, Calif., that has 15 employees, was recently fined $3,500 for knowingly employing one illegal alien and for failing to complete all paperwork properly. Charles Hays, the company's manager, said the company was fighting the fine, which he said was based on information the company itself had provided.
''They should be helping us enforce the law and not coming after us and other people who make a substantial effort to comply,'' Mr. Hays said.
Immigration officials say that they are fairly enforcing the law and that they have gone after egregious violators as well as those employers who have failed to meet paperwork and other technical requirements. Mr. Moyer cited the case of a day-labor company in Chicago that was fined $60,000 after what he said was a long and labor-intensive investigation.
''We'll work with an employer as long as that employer has made a good-faith showing that they are trying to comply,'' Mr. Moyer said.
The immigration service said its most recent figures showed that as of June 30, it had conducted 21,745 investigations of employers. The agency said it had issued 4,634 warnings and 2,511 fines seeking a total of $11.8 million. Many fines are settled for less than the agency first demands.
Mr. Moyer said the immigration service still believes that sanctions will ultimately work as a deterrent to illegal immigration. ''I've said all along that this law is going to take three to five or maybe even eight years to have a full impact on immigration patterns to the United States,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; IDENTIFICATION DEVICES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); IMMIGRATION (93%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); NATURALIZATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); AMNESTY (74%); CRIMINAL FINES (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W



231 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: To Find Out About Soviets, F.B.I. Turns to Advertising

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
In a novel approach to the second-oldest profession, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has turned to advertising to recruit potential Soviet counterintelligence assets and beckon would-be defectors.
On Friday, the F.B.I. began running daily display ads in a Russian-language newspaper in New York City, calling on recent Soviet emigres and other readers to share information on operations of the K.G.B., the Soviet intelligence service, in this country and abroad.
''Replies will be kept in the strictest confidence,'' the advertisement in Novoye Russkoye Slovo promises.
James M. Fox, director of the F.B.I. office in New York, said the appeal aimed to capitalize on the potential intelligence bonanza offered by the influx of some 150,000 Soviet citizens since 1975 and the expected arrival in the country of another 80,000 over the next year or so.
American intelligence officials have long assumed that their Soviet counterparts smuggled in some agents along with the emigres, and the newspaper campaign is aimed in part at unmasking spies. And yes, Mr. Fox said, he knows the K.G.B. will be sending him double-agents in response to the advertisement, and he is ready. 
''We'll be very alert to the K.G.B. trying to send in ringers and plants,'' Mr. Fox said. ''Without being specific, we're prepared for that.''
The $300-a-day advertisement takes note of the waves of immigrants - some 50,000 have settled in the New York area alone - and suggests that ''many emigres have found themselves in a position to assist the F.B.I. in its counterintelligence mission.''
It goes on, ''Some of you are emigres who, for one reason or another, have direct knowledge of K.G.B. methods or operations, either in the U.S.S.R. or abroad, but particularly in the United States.''
It concludes with an appeal: ''If you are such a person, wishing to make an important contribution to your adopted country, please call or write your nearest F.B.I. office.''
It supplies the number of the bureau's office at 26 Federal Plaza in lower Manhattan, (212) 553-2700, and the extension of the counterintelligence section, 3037, where Russian-speaking agents were said to be standing by.
 
Six Calls So Far
The first two days of the advertisement - in the Friday newspaper and in a weekend issue - generated six calls through yesterday afternoon, the F.B.I. said. Agents declined to characterize the nature of the calls in any way.
Mr. Fox said that the bureau was always looking for qualified Russian linguists, and that callers, once properly cleared, might find themselves offered jobs with the F.B.I.
F.B.I. officials said the bureau was also interested in collecting information on criminal activity by Soviet underworld gangs known to be operating within the emigre community in the Brighton Beach section of Brooklyn and elsewhere.
The F.B.I. also appears to be trying to counter recent criticism by some defectors that it and the Central Intelligence Agency had treated them poorly.
The advertisement does not mention compensation, but benefits do exist for those who help gather intelligence for the United States.
 
Read by Soviet Diplomats
The C.I.A. did not comment directly on the advertising campaign. Regarding criticism over the treatment of some defectors, Bill Devine, a C.I.A. spokesman, said the agency ''has taken several steps to improve our resettlement program, such as assigning more experienced officers'' and creating an external review board.
The advertisements, which cover about one-fifth of an inside page, are scheduled to run daily for two weeks and then intermittently. The F.B.I. said the newspaper, which is generally hostile to the Soviet system, had a circulation of more than 50,000 nationwide, largely in emigre communities. The paper is officially off limits to most Soviet foreign-service officers but is known to be read by a number of Soviet diplomats. The advertisements are not running in any other publication. Mr. Fox of the F.B.I. said that since so many of the new arrivals gravitate to Brighton Beach, ''We thought it would pay us to get the message out saying this is what the F.B.I. does.''
While he said it was the first time he knew of that newspaper advertisements were used in that way, he and other counterintelligence experts noted that coded messages in the newspapers were long a tool of spycraft. How Do We Reach the F.B.I.? The unorthodox initiative was approved by bureau headquarters in Washington, Mr. Fox said, adding, ''We explained the logic and they thought it was a good idea.''
He said the effort grew out of comments from recent defectors who complained that they did not know how to make contact with the F.B.I.
When agents told them that the F.B.I.'s phone number is listed on the inside cover of the white pages telephone book, the defectors asked, ''How do I get a telephone book?'' In the Soviet Union, telephone books are a closed guarded commodity.
Some other defectors have told the F.B.I. that for months before they made contact with the American authorities, they had tried without success to attract the attention of F.B.I. surveillance agents with surreptitious waves and other signals that would not at the same time tip off curious Soviet colleagues.
 
Defector Praises Ads
One recent Soviet defector, Boris Beliak, a 47-year-old former official with UNICEF at the United Nations, who said he loved his homeland but detested the Communist system, praised the F.B.I. initiative.
''It is the duty of every person who comes here to help out this country, a duty to help the U.S. Government, it's as simple as that,'' he said in an interview last week.
Mr. Beliak, a lawyer, economist and former member of the Soviet Olympic crew team, who is now looking for a job in New York City, said the advertisements were vital to show emigres as well as Soviet diplomats that the F.B.I. was not an ''instrument of oppression'' like the K.G.B., and that agents were not the ''bad guys'' portrayed by Soviet security briefings.
But along the crowded streets of Brighton Beach, where Soviet emigres ran errands and relaxed over vodka and smoked fish this weekend, reaction to the advertisements was mixed.
Some, like Michael Stremlin, encouraged the F.B.I.'s solicitations. A 50-year-old engineer who arrived in New York last year from Leningrad after a long campaign to leave, said running advertisements was a smart way to reach embittered emigres willing to share information that could help topple a repressive Soviet regime and protect the United States against espionage.
''I know what kind of country I left,'' said Mr. Stremlin, who has settled with his family in Brighton Beach. ''It's oppressive and should be changed immediately. It's all of our responsibility to support the F.B.I. any way we can.''
 
A Different Opinion
But others thought the F.B.I.'s campaign was ill conceived and bound to fail.
''Unless you actually worked inside the K.G.B, you don't know the first thing about it - it's a very secretive organization,'' said Aron Fischer, 48, a grocery store owner. ''And if you had been in the K.G.B. and were able to come to the United States, you probably wouldn't come forward because you'd be scared the American Government would consider you a Communist.''
The F.B.I's new efforts come at a time when the K.G.B. has been trying to put on a more human face, to transform its image as an agent of repression.
Mr. Beliak, the former UNICEF official, said he ''had a lot of apprehensions'' about his decision to become an American. But he said: ''I saw people who were genuinely interested in helping me out rather than pushing me or harassing me for information. That was a pleasant surprise.'' He said he performed no espionage work for either the Soviet Union or his adopted country.
 
Expected to Be Homeless
Two other recent defectors, a couple who spoke on the condition that they not be named, also praised the F.B.I. advertisement.
They said they had been ''brainwashed'' to expect harsh treatment by the F.B.I., including efforts by agents to compromise them by planting store goods in their pockets when they went shopping so they would be arrested for shoplifting. ''I was afraid to go out alone,'' the woman said.
She also said she knew so little about how defectors were treated that she expected they would become homeless and have to live on the street in a cardboard box. Her fears were all allayed, she said, and she wanted her countrymen to get that message.
''Americans don't realize how great is your country,'' she said.
F.B.I. counterintelligence officials said the cold war's thaw and spreading spirit of glasnost, or openness, did not eliminate the need for vigilance against espionage, but represented heightened risks.
''Everyone thinks the Soviets are wonderful, and doors are opened,'' one said. ''But the K.G.B. is still at work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NOVOYE RUSSKOYE SLOVO PUBLISHING CORP (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: KGB (SOVIET SECURITY POLICE); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ADVERTISING; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (94%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); LINGUISTICS (77%); IMMIGRATION (64%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; FOX, JAMES M



232 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A2-7, A18
 
East German protesters clashed with the police in cities throughout the nation. The Government celebration of its 40th anniversary of Communism has prompted rallies and demonstrations urging reform. Page A1
 
Emigres tell why life in East Germany proved intolerable A6
 
In a dispute over intelligence policy, the national security adviser and the Senate intelligence chief argued about whether President Bush has been handcuffed by restrictions. A1
 
General Noriega ''exploded in rage'' after the coup attempt and ordered the immediate execution of several rebel officers, including a friend who led the coup, diplomats said. A7 
 
Latvia's largest political group met to demand independence, a free market and multi-party democracy. But it also called for a transition period during which Latvia would remain within the Soviet federation. A2
 
Many Hungarian Communists criticized their party for changing its name to the Socialist Party. They said the party had not yet defined its new identity. A1
 
Export of advanced machine tools to Communist countries is being advocated by Western Europe, particularly West Germany, as well as U.S. makers of machine tools. D1
 
Yugoslavia's Premier wants aid from the U.S. to revive his nation's crippled economy, but he ruled out accepting the kind of liberalization going on in Hungary and Poland. He is due in Washington today. A18
 
Argentina's pardon of officers accused of ruthlessly repressing dissent has left victims of the military crackdown bitterly angry. A3
 
El Salvador accepts plan for evacuation of wounded rebels A3
 
The Pope prayed for Korean unity on a vast plaza in Seoul, saying North and South Korea are ''symbolic of a world divided and not yet able to become one in peace and justice.'' A3
 
Ise journal: an ancient shrine tests a modern Emperor A4
 
National A8-13
 
The seeds of a Medicare disaster were sown even before Congress enacted ''catastrophic coverage'' in 1988, legislators and policy makers now say. They blame Democratic largesse and a Republican demand that the program pay for itself. A1
 
News analysis: A budget deadlock may lead to across-the-board spending cuts starting automatically on Oct. 16. Many of the current budget problems began with the move to cut the capital gains tax. A11
 
Immunity for two ex-H.U.D. aides is to likely to be considered in Congress as a way of obtaining their testimony, but a lawmaker ruled out immunity for former Secretary Pierce. A12
 
St. Croix looters are being arrested by the F.B.I. three weeks after Hurricane Hugo devastated the area. Federal Agents say they have confirmed reports that some police officers took part in the looting. A1
 
Illegal aliens can still find work in the United States, despite the Government's effort to turn the workplace into the front line of the battle against illegal immigration. A1
 
Soviet emigres are being recruited by the F.B.I. for information on K.G.B. operations. The F.B.I. has begun running advertisements in a Russian-language newspaper in New York City. A1
 
A gap between the life expectancies of black and whites is continuing to grow, health experts say. Most of it is due to behavior patterns rather than to conditions like heart disease. A8
 
Colleges should add requirements to core undergraduate studies, the National Endowment for the Humanities said. It cited a survey showing that many college seniors do not know when the Civil War occurred. A11
 
The auto legend Shoichiro Honda is to take his place next to Henry Ford and Karl Benz in the Automotive Hall of Fame in Detroit. It is an honor some say is long overdue. A8
 
Louisiana backed a tax increase on gasoline that is intended to finance a building program and breathe life into the state economy. Voters had rejected the measure in April. A8
 
Young & Rubicam's indictment has raised this question on Madison Avenue: Must American advertising agencies adjust their ethics as they expand their operations around the world? D1
 
How MTV has rocked television commercials D6
 
'Junk bond' inquiry by S.E.C. is seen D1
 
Cargo boom causes plane shortage D1
 
Regional B1-4
 
Three Jewish students were attacked outside a fraternity party near the campus of Brooklyn College by as many as 15 men, who shouted ethnic slurs, the police said. B1
 
Rudolph Giuliani courted votes from Hispanic New Yorkers, campaigning in East Harlem, while David Dinkins was in California over the weekend for private and public fund-raising events. B1
 
Campaign matters: Running with the ghost of La Guardia B1
 
Board turns down change in campaign disclosure forms B3
 
New Jersey's legislative races have at times mirrored the race for governor. But while pollution is a big issue in the 11th Assembly District, high property taxes are becoming one too. B2
 
The sale of large public airports to private interests is being considered by communities to save money and improve service. Albany County in New York may sell its airport, and officials in Peoria, Ill., and Los Angeles are talking about similar deals. B1
 
A drive to upgrade Federal parks in the New York City region has risen along with opposition against a plan to let developers build profit-making attractions in a Queens park. B3
 
A fruit grower farms with few chemicals B3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HUNGARY (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATVIA (91%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (68%); 

COMPANY: ST CROIX VINEYARDS (50%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (69%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); BUDGETS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); RIOTS (78%); COUPS (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); POLITICS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (73%); MEDICARE (73%); ARRESTS (73%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); TAX LAW (66%); NATURAL DISASTERS (64%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



233 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Louisiana Changes Course And Accepts Tax Increase

BYLINE: By FRANCES FRANK MARCUS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Reversing at least part of the message they sent in a spring election, Louisiana voters on Saturday overwhelmingly approved a gasoline tax increase intended to finance a costly building program and breathe life into the state's dismal economy.
The tax increase of about a penny a gallon was rejected overwhelmingly in April, when voters defeated a fiscal overhaul program sought by Gov. Buddy Roemer. After that defeat, Governor Roemer and the Legislature put together a modified package of measures to be voted on separately, and some of them were approved on Saturday.
''We've got a big win,'' Governor Roemer said in a telephone interview today. ''It's been a long road.'' 
 
State Still Faces a Shortfall
But the Governor did not say that the tax increases approved on Saturday would end the shakiness of the state's finances, which is a result of the oil industry's decline. While he maintained that the broad package that was rejected in April would have gone a long way toward a solution, he said the steps approved on Saturday were a start.
Louisiana faces a budget shortfall of at least $400 million next year if it does not reduce state spending and renew sales taxes that are due to expire.Budget cuts have already resulted in the elimination of 6,000 state employees since the Governor's election in 1987.
Nevertheless, many people in the state were smiling today, from fishermen in the coastal wetlands that were a big beneficiary of the vote, to business leaders who campaigned for the thousands of jobs expected to result from the new four-lane highways and port and airport improvements in a $1.4 billion construction program financed by the new gasoline tax.
Political analysts here saw the vote as a sign that Louisiana voters are willing to assume some fiscal responsibility, providing the cost is not too high.
While voters approved the increase in the gasoline tax to 20 cents a gallon and removed a $3 limit on fees for license plates, they defeated other proposals to allow municipal governments to increase property taxes, to decrease business taxes and to extend a tax break for property owners in historic districts. Voters also approved a proposal to make the seizure of assets of drug dealers easier.
 
Voting on 13 Measures
The coastal erosion trust fund approved by voters will be paid for by oil and natural gas revenues. The fund is significant chiefly for its use in attracting Federal matching funds to help slow the rapid erosion of the state's wetlands, its supporters said. ''We've baited the hook for the Federal Government,'' State Senator Ben Bagert said.
The gasoline tax measure, which establishes a transportation trust fund, was approved 71 percent to 39 percent, as was the environmental trust fund. The voter turnout was 31 percent for the election that considered 13 separate measures, not all of them dealing with the state's fiscal problems. Voters also rejected two proposals to increase the number of state judges who are black.
The election did not provide a solution to Louisiana's chronic budget shortages, Mr. Roemer said. ''We've taken a bankrupt situation and gotten on solid ground one year at a time,'' he said. ''We're halfway home.''
Comparing the proposal approved on Saturday to the package to change the state tax system that was defeated in the spring, he said, ''Fiscal reform would have done it 10 years at a time.''
The election was Mr. Roemer's third attempt to change the state's tax system. Last fall legislators defeated his effort to change the property tax system, under which most homeowners pay no property taxes.
 
Moving From Long's Legacy
Politicians, political analysts and ordinary people saw the results on Saturday as a sign that Louisiana was moving away, at least a little, from the anti-tax populism that has been strong since the 1930's when Gov. Huey P. Long and the Legislature enacted high business taxes that forced oil companies to pay the state's bills.
But some, including Edward Renwick, a political analyst and a leading poll taker, saw the movement as limited. ''Basically people said we'll give you a little money if you use it for specific purposes,'' he said.
''The vote was conservative populist,'' Mr. Renwick said. ''The tax they went with affects everybody equally -no progressivity. The taxes that would not help everybody equally all went down.''
Mr. Renwick said the voters' willingness to raise the $3-a-year-license plate fee, long seen as an inalienable right, to at least $10 a year is a symbol of the state's willingness to change, but a small one.
''Things haven't changed that much,'' he said. ''It's not a revolution. But it helps Roemer. He finally got something passed.''
But environmentalists said that the vote on the wetlands signaled a major change in the way the state views the environment and that it was a top priority even among people who live far from the endangered coastal marshes. ''It's the strongest of signals,'' said Oliver Houck, a leading conservationist.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Burt O'Rourke talking with Ann Schofer, the voting commissioner, before casting his ballot on a gasoline tax increase (Associated Press for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ELECTIONS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WETLANDS (86%); TRENDS (79%); REFERENDUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); POLITICS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); NATURAL GAS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); EROSION (69%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); ASSET FORFEITURE (65%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); MATCHING GIFTS (64%); AIRPORTS (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (63%); 

PERSON: MARCUS, FRANCES FRANK CHARLES ELSON 'BUDDY' ROEMER III (72%); 



234 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Growing Gap in Life Expectancies Of Blacks and Whites Is Emerging

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
After narrowing for decades, the gap in life expectancy between blacks and whites has grown for three years in a row, Federal health experts say, and most of the disparity is due to patterns of behavior.
The experts said the trend has been caused almost entirely by deaths from causes like AIDS, drug abuse, alcoholism and car accidents, and not by diseases that are much less subject to control.
In fact, for the three leading causes of death - cancer, heart disease and stroke - the new statistics show that improvement among blacks has been as good as or better than that among whites, said Dr. Harry M. Rosenberg, chief of the mortality statistics branch of the National Center for Health Statistics.
But from 1984 to 1987, the gap between the races increased from 5.6 years to 6.2 years, Dr. Rosenberg said. A white child born in 1987, the latest year for which the data have been analyzed, could expect to live about 75.6 years, Federal figures released last week show. A black child could expect a life of 69.4 years. 
 
A Good Overall Measure
Life expectancy statistics are a good measure of both overall health and death rates because they are taken from a complete count and analysis of all the approximately two million death certificates filed each year in the United States.
The causes of death that increased much more for blacks than for whites and were the chief factors in the widening gap, were, in order: AIDS; drug overdoses and other drug-related factors; diseases and disabilities that kill infants in their first year; accidents, chiefly those involving motor vehicles, and chronic liver disease including cirrhosis caused by alcoholism.
Dr. Christine Hale, an expert in mortality statistics at the University of Washington, said, ''The trend is appalling. And there is one thing all these causes have in common: they are preventable. This is essentially self-destructive behavior, and it is a pattern you get when people are despairing.''
Since the statistics were first compiled in 1900, there has been a gap between the races, but it had narrowed from 14.6 years in 1900 to 5.6 years in 1984.
 
A Change in 1984
Then in 1984, for the first time, the life expectancy for blacks began to fall while it continued to rise for whites. The difference was noted, but statisticians were uncertain of its causes.
In the latest report, the National Center for Health Statistics said the gap had continued to widen for a third year. In addition, Dr, Rosenberg said, two major trends are expected to worsen considerably, the number of AIDS deaths and homicides among young black men.
As medicine and public health practices improved, the life expectancy for both races had improved. Life expectancy sometimes fell, like during outbreaks of influenza, but until now the figures for both races dropped and rebounded together.
Life expectancy at birth is a statistical measure that represents the average number of years infants would live if they were to experience the death rates that prevail for different age groups in the year they were born.
 
Trend Is 'Ominous'
''The numbers themselves don't seem large yet, but the direction is so ominous that it is of great concern,'' said Dr. William P. O'Hare, director of policy studies at the Population Reference Bureau, a research center here. ''The Government and society should be concerned about these numbers, because it means the loss of many productive workers and taxpayers.
''I suspect that the mortality rate is also an indicator of something else. In addition to the people dying, there are other ones who are disabled and become a burden to society and the health care system from the same causes. We have to pay to take care of them as well as losing their capacity to work.''
Dr. William Julius Wilson, a sociologist at the University of Chicago and the president of the American Sociological Association, said the ''disturbing decreases in life expectancy correspond with recent increases in the black poverty rate and, more important, increases in the severity of black poverty.''
He noted that in 1978 one third of poor blacks had an income of less than $5,000 a year, when the Government designates a family of three as poor if its annual income is less than $10,000. By 1987, Dr. Wilson said, nearly half of poor blacks had fallen below the $5,000 level.
 
Decreases in Social Programs
Dr. Wilson also cited large decreases in social programs as possibly contributing to the widening gap in mortality rates. The total appropriations for programs like subsidized housing, health services, social services and job training fell by 54 percent from 1981 to 1988, he said, and programs like food stamps and aid to families with dependent children were also cut substantially.
Earnings of black workers have also declined, Dr. Wilson said. The median earnings of young black workers who head families have dropped by one half from 1973 to 1986, after being adjusted for inflation, he said.
''It is hard for me to believe that these factors are not related to the decline in life expectancy,'' Dr. Wilson said. ''People with less income cannot get the kind of medical care others do. People without jobs or money resort to drug use as they try to deal with their frustrations.''
 
A Question of Policy Choices
Dr. Herbert Nickens, the director of the division of minority health at the American Association of Medical Colleges, said the main question now is, ''What policy choices should be made in the face of these numbers?''
''We don't have a vaccine for homicide,'' he said. ''But on drug-related deaths we ought to open more drug treatment facilities. We should not have people on waiting lists for treatment.
''Most people have a sense that things are spinning out of control. There is a bleak outlook and a locked-in quality to these conditions. No one since Lyndon Johnson has stood up and said, 'We're going to fix this.' We simply have not had a national resolve.''
Another main element in the widening gap has been infant mortality. The disparity in infant mortality between blacks and whites has widened since the late 1970's, said Kay Johnson, director of the health division for the Children's Defense Fund.
The infant mortality rate for blacks was 1.78 times that for whites in 1973, she said. But by 1987 it had risen to 2.07 times the white rate.
''Progress has just stopped,'' Ms. Johnson said.

GRAPHIC: Graph of life expectancy between whites and blacks from '84-'87 (source: National Center for Health Statistics) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LONGEVITY; BLACKS (IN US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH LIFE EXPECTANCY (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (89%); AIDS & HIV (89%); TRENDS (89%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (89%); CANCER (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (76%); LIVER DISEASE (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); STROKES (73%); HOMICIDE (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); INFLUENZA (60%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J



235 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: When the Money Really Would Stop

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
With Congressional leaders and Administration officials failing again over the weekend to work out a way to allow budget legislation to be enacted this week, prospects grew that across-the-board spending reductions in Government programs would automatically go into effect on Oct. 16.
From a practical standpoint, the cutbacks of 2 percent to 5 percent in most programs, from military procurement to Medicare payments, would make little difference. Eventually, a budget will be approved and the lost money restored.
But from a political perspective, missing the deadline would worsen the already widespread view that today's politicians are unable to manage the fundamental obligation of Government: to raise money from taxpayers and allocate it in the best interest of the country. 
 
Energy, Effort and Lost Focus
Few legislators, economists or political analysts disagree with the assessment of Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the leader of the Senate's Democratic majority. ''We expend so much energy and effort here seeking to get and retain tactical and partisan advantage, we lose focus in dealing with legislation in a responsible way,'' he said last week.
Paradoxically, the procedures that place lawmakers in the bind they find themselves in now - the 1974 law that established Congressional budget procedures and the Gramm-Rudman law that set annual deficit-reducing targets - were designed to force Congress to act more responsibly.
This year was not supposed to be one for missing budget deadlines. In April, President Bush and Congress struck an agreement for cutting the Federal deficit by about $14 billion, enough to lower it below $100 billion, the mandatory target for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.
 
Gimmicks for Expediency
They reached the goal mostly with gimmicks like advancing a military payday by one day and removing the Postal Service from the budget. But on both sides the deal was considered a get-me-through-the-night arrangement to buy time until the new President and the new Democratic leaders in Congress could sit down and do some serious deficit-cutting for the next fiscal year.
What threw sand in the gears was Mr. Bush's insistence on fulfilling his campaign promise to lower the capital gains tax and his determination that the measure be attached to a budget bill known as reconciliation legislation.
As envisioned by the 1974 budget law, which was written to give Congress a handle on fiscal policy, the reconciliation procedure would be routine. Congress would set overall spending and revenue figures at the beginning of the year. Then it would pass all its appropriations and tax legislation. If, as would likely happen, the numbers in all the bills did not add up precisely to the figures agreed upon in the beginning, a reconciliation bill would be passed to add a few dollars here or make small trims there so that everything came out even.
 
And What Really Happens
That is not the way it has generally worked in recent years. Reconciliation bills have become kitchen-sink measures, crammed with legislation, that have little to do with the budget but much to do with overall Government policy.
Because Presidents must sign or reject bills in entirety, Congress has used reconciliation bills to force enactment of policies that might be vetoed if they stood alone; Presidents have used them to force Congressional consideration of policies that might otherwise be bottled up in committees that opposed them.
This year's bill is no exception. The 2,000-page legislation approved by the House of Representatives late last month and now before the Senate includes not only a temporary reduction in the capital gains tax but also repeal of Medicare insurance against the cost of catastrophic illness, expanded Federal support for child care, reinstate ment of the fairness doctrine for broadcasters, prohibitions against pornography on the telephone, pension law changes, an excise tax on ozone-depleting chemicals and dozens of other items big and small.
 
'Baggage Car' Legislating
It became, said the House Republican minority leader, Representative Bob Michel of Illinois, a ''baggage car'' for measures that could not ''stand the test of independent consideration.''
The bill might still have stood up under the excess weight had it not been for capital gains. ''The dominoes were falling neatly and in order until we came to the bridge washed out by the capital gains debate,'' said Senator Jim Sasser, the Tennessee Democrat who heads the Senate Budget Committee.
President Bush and nearly all Republicans in Congress maintain that a capital gains tax cut would stimulate investment and help the economy. Enough Democrats agree so that it was passed by the House and has a slim but clear majority in the Senate.
But it is vigorously opposed by most Democrats and especially the leaders who control the committees and the vote schedules. They believe such a cut would amount to a giveaway to the wealthiest taxpayers.
Last week, the leaders of both parties in the House and Senate were on the verge of agreeing to strip the reconciliation bill of the capital gains provision and all other extraneous matters so that the budget measure could be passed before the Oct. 16 deadline.
 
Role of Top Bush Aides
But the President's principal advisers - Richard G. Darman, the budget director, and John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff - argued that unless the capital gains measure was part of the reconciliation bill, the Democratic leaders might be able to block it from coming to a final vote.
The two sides spent all day Saturday and part of today trying to find some ironclad agreement that would allow a bare budget bill to come to a vote with a guaranteed vote on capital gains later in the year. They plan to resume meeting on Tuesday.
Meanwhile, in the various Government departments and agencies, bureaucrats are busily juggling accounts in case no political agreement is reached and the automatic spending cuts do go into effect on Oct. 16, a week from Monday. In budget parlance, such automatic cuts are called sequestration.
One result would be an immediate 2 percent reduction in Medicare payments to doctors, hospitals and individuals. Borrowers in the guaranteed student loan program and farmers expecting crop-support payments might also be affected.
But most Americans would not notice the difference, and those who received lower payments would almost certainly be reimbursed as soon as a budget was approved.
Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who is probably the most knowledgeable lawmaker on the intricacies of the budget, says it would be 30 to 45 days before the bite of sequestration was really felt. Across-the-board cuts went into effect briefly two years ago before a budget was approved, and no one was the worse for wear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TITLE: GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS ACT

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: IF AS (60%); MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); MEDICARE (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (77%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (73%); 



236 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: CORE CURRICULUMS IN COLLEGE URGED

BYLINE: By JULIE JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Asserting that too many college students graduate with limited exposure to the ''basic landmarks of history and thought,'' the National Endowment for the Humanities urged colleges today to bolster required undergraduate studies.
Issuing a new report, the latest in several recent indictments of American education, the agency said colleges should require students to pass a core of courses in Western civilization, math, science, foreign language and social sciences.
Lynne V. Cheney, chairwoman of the endowment group, an independent Federal agency that supports research and education in the humanities, released an accompanying national survey of college seniors that she said showed significant gaps in their knowledge of history and literature. 
The Gallup Poll of 700 college seniors showed, for example, that more than 40 percent of those surveyed did not know when the Civil War was fought and that nearly one-third said Reconstruction was a plan of American economic aid in Europe after World War II, rather than the period when the Union administered the Southern states after the Civil War. A quarter of the seniors were unable to distinguish the thoughts of Karl Marx from the ideas expressed in the United States Constitution. When Was the Korean War? In addition, reflecting an overall difficulty the seniors appeared to have in remembering dates and matching them to significant historical events, 24 percent of the students said Columbus landed in the Western Hemisphere sometime after 1500. Almost 60 percent of those polled said the Korean War began during the Presidencies of either John F. Kennedy, Franklin D. Roosevelt or Dwight D. Eisenhower, or did not know.
''If the students' answers were to be graded, more than half of those tested would have failed,'' the report said.
The poll, conducted from April 4 through April 27 of this year, was based on 696 interviews with college seniors who attend four-year colleges or universities in the United States. Its margin of sampling error was plus or minus four percentage points.
Mrs. Cheney said: ''What you also have is almost half of these bright-faced college graduates apparently unaware of what 'Moby Dick' or 'David Copperfield' are. And on those questions where they have confused Karl Marx and the Constitution, these go to the heart of our democratic heritage and that is deeply troubling.''
Even so, seniors indicated a surprising grasp for detail on some basic historical facts, including some that could be considered relatively esoteric. For example, 60 percent correctly identifed Thomas Paine as the Revolution author of ''Common Sense,'' his argument for colonial independence. More than 80 percent knew of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's disputed investigations into alleged Communist activities in the 1950's.
Mrs. Cheney's report does not explain the gaps between what students do and do not learn. She acknowledged that some students ''manage to put together a coherent and substantive'' program of study. But knowledge gaps remain, she said, largely because most colleges have loose ''distribution requirements'' that allow students to pick and choose between courses in a variety of areas.
 
A '50 Hours' Proposal
The call for a ''core curriculum,'' based on a specific number of semester hours that college undergraduates must pass - like a ''50 Hours'' proposal offered today by Mrs. Cheney -is not new.
But its release comes as parents, teachers and businesses increasingly find education lacking. And, officials of the endowment agency said, the report complements the policy recommendations made two weeks ago at the meeting on education that President Bush had in Charlottesville, Va. with the nation's governors.
Mrs. Cheney's proposal is heavily rooted in Western civilization and omits altogether any requirement that undergradutes study composition or some form of writing. But it opened immediate debate among educators about the notion that there is a precise set of facts, books or other knowledge a person should have.
''A reform that relies so heavily on the traditional Western civilization courses runs the risk of a dangerous superficiality,'' said James Underwood, dean of faculty at Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., which began a general education curriculum this fall that is based on history and literature.
Bari J. Watkins, vice president for academic affairs at Queens College in Charlotte, N.C., a liberal arts school that has been praised by higher education groups for its core curriculum, said, however, that many small liberal arts colleges already have moved in the direction Mrs. Cheney recommends.
Copies of the report, ''50 Hours: A Core Curriculum for College Students,'' can be obtained free by writing the Office of Publications and Public Affairs, National Endowment for the Humanities, 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20506.

GRAPHIC: Examples of questions the Gallup Organization asked 696 college seniors to test their knowledge of history and literature 9source: National Endowment for the Humanities)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HISTORY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); KOREAN WAR (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); LITERATURE (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); WRITERS (69%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, JULIE JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); 



237 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: The Democrats - Late and Lame

 BODY:
The Democratic Party is in trouble. The floundering over capital gains taxes has raised serious questions about the quality of the party's leadership, the coherence of its message and the condition of its soul. The Democrats aren't wholly to blame for their troubles. But the signs of decay are worrisome - not just for the party but the country.
A feeble opposition is no great help to George Bush, either. Two weeks ago the Democrats had critical things to say about Soviet policy that deserved Mr. Bush's attention. Secretary of State James Baker was able to dismiss them with a smug reference to the President's high approval rating on foreign affairs. That rating could drop after the latest Panama fiasco. But the Administration's complacency owes much to the Democrats' failure to offer a sustained response to Republican policies. 
It isn't easy to be a Democrat now. Three straight Presidential defeats have left the national party rudderless, while scandal has left the Congressional party in largely untested hands. A long period of peace and general prosperity has blunted traditional issues. The amiable Mr. Bush, whatever his shortcomings, presents an elusive target. And the Democrats, no less than the White House, seem politically and intellectually paralyzed by the budget deficit. The belief that new ideas invariably cost large sums of money has arrested the production of new ideas.
Still, the party has shown a perverse capacity to miss even low-cost opportunities to assert itself. One of the biggest issues confronting the present Congress is ethics in public life. Given the years of Reagan sleaze, the Democrats should be pressing hard for legislation that would reform a corrosive system of campaign financing and straighten out the matter of Congressional pay. They've done virtually nothing.
The capital gains mess is only the latest example of what seems to be terminal confusion. Here, at least, a few Democratic senators advanced admirable arguments. They identified Mr. Bush's capital gains tax cut as a gift to the rich that would have no lasting impact on the budget deficit and would violate the letter and spirit of the 1986 tax act.
This sensible philosophy found little echo in the House. Influential Democrats like Dan Rostenkowski actually endorsed a capital gains tax cut. A plausible alternative - restoring an I.R.A. deduction for all - arrived so late that it seemed more an act of legislative desperation than economic common sense and justice. And though many Democrats voted against the capital gains tax plan, a crucial 64 did not. The response to efforts to repeal catastrophic-health care was similarly flawed. Again, the Democrats failed to muster a coherent philosophical response. Again they waited too long before offering a less Draconian alternative. And again they suffered big defections.
One likely reason for this performance is that Congressmen generally have grown too comfortable with incumbency. In 409 House races in 1988 contested by incumbents of both parties, 402 won. And the winners apparently want to keep their jobs - even if it means, for Democrats, siding with Mr. Bush on important tests of party philosophy and discipline. Almost 40 percent of the Democrats from districts Mr. Bush carried in the 1988 campaign voted to cut capital gains taxes.
Yet incumbency ought to be a source of strength, a secure platform from which to project contentious ideas and a sense of priorities. It would also be useful if those ideas had some originality. When Mr. Bush announced his war on drugs, Senator Joseph Biden called for tax increases to expand it. The party chairman, Ronald Brown, swiftly rebuked Mr. Biden for resurrecting discredited ''tax and spend policies'' before laying out the programs he wanted the money for.
Mr. Brown was on to something. Winning the drug war will take money; the question is how to spend it and where to find it. And that means making tough and candid choices. Whether it's drugs or the homeless or a fair chance for children or defense, one sensible strategy for Democrats is to identify what's important to America's health and what isn't, and then to propose a wrenching readjustment of budget priorities.
Such an effort might reap surprising political rewards; even Mr. Bush's partisans seem concerned that he's caught in a time warp, excessively preoccupied with old challenges and insensitive to new ones. A recent Washington Post/ABC poll showed that Mr. Bush enjoyed wide popularity. It also revealed anxiety about his approach to problems like drugs and pollution. Similarly, a New York Times/CBS News Poll portrayed a public much less fearful than it was four years ago about nuclear war and Soviet relations, and much more concerned with the fabric of American life.
These findings may contain the seeds of a Democratic revival, for what they suggest is a developing national unease that America is misapplying its energies. To capitalize on this unease will require a huge effort by a party that seems long ago to have lost its bearings, an effort requiring candor, courage and above all conviction. The Democrats cannot earn public confidence without first restoring confidence in themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SCANDALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ETHICS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



238 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Benefits of Soviet Entry Into Tariff System

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Keep Moscow Out of Gatt'' (Op-Ed, Sept. 17), Michael Samuels, former United States delegate to General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade meetings, correctly argues that the Soviet Union is not yet a market economy, but he incorrectly concludes that we must therefore keep it out of the GATT community.
As it happens, GATT has already admitted into its fold other centrally planned economies, including Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary, Rumania and Cuba. These countries were less market oriented at the time of their admission than would satisfy a purist. The objection to Soviet entry cannot therefore be one of principle. 
The key problem is that GATT membership would give centrally planned economies access to our markets, but in view of their reliance on planning and bureaucrats in place of markets and prices, such economies could not give us meaningful reciprocal access to their markets.
There is no altogether satisfactory solution to this problem. But with the other centrally planned economies admitted to GATT we have settled for their undertaking to increase overall imports by specified amounts annually. Why not do this equally for the Soviet Union?
This would bring Moscow closer to integration into the world economy and its institutions, strengthening the hands of the proponents of perestroika. Full Soviet readiness to allow imports rests on the speed with which the Soviet economy can generate exports. The process, in turn, requires successful price reform and a convertible ruble, both inevitably slow.
If GATT entry were also to stipulate a realistic time schedule in which Moscow would assume market-economy-style obligations and offer foreigners free access to its markets, that too would serve to hasten continuing reform of the Soviet foreign trading system.
To ask the Soviet Union to wait for GATT entry until perestroika reforms are complete is to put the cart before the horse. Beginning in 1948, when GATT became effective, we did not insist on this requirement for countries of Western Europe. They took nearly a decade to restore their war-devastated economies and return to the currency convertibility that is necessary for insuring effective market access.
We did not require it of the developing countries either, giving them special and differential treatment so that they enjoyed GATT rights and had few obligations until they were ready to handle them.
Does Mikhail S. Gorbachev, engaged in a Herculean effort whose outcome concerns us all, deserve any less?
 
PADMA DESAI
Professor of Economics
Columbia University
 New York, Sept. 20, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (95%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: DESAI, PADMA



239 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Yugoslav Chief to See Bush and Seek His Support

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ante Markovic is to arrive in Washington on Monday to ask President Bush's support for the economic program that he hopes will pull Yugoslavia out of its long crisis of hyperinflation, high unemployment, a steadily declining standard of living and a crippling foreign debt.
But Mr. Markovic made clear in an interview in his office that Yugoslavia, unlike Poland and Hungary, has no immediate plan for coupling economic renewal with an end to one-party rule. He appeared irritated when asked a question that grieves liberal Yugoslavs as they watch Hungary and Poland, two nations that remain firmly in the Soviet orbit, advance toward parliamentary democracy:
Will Yugoslavia, which broke from the Soviet Union in 1948 and has long been the most open Communist nation, loosen the rule of the Communist Party over its political life?
Except for recently formed minority parties in the most Westernized constituent republics of Croatia and Slovenia - parties that are tolerated without being legal - Communists control organized political life either directly through the party or through a catch-all organization, the Socialist Alliance, which is fully in the party's hands. All important public offices are reserved for Communists. 
''Yugoslavia had free candidacies and free elections in earlier years, when no one would have dreamed of such things in those countries,'' Mr. Markovic said testily, referring to Poland and Hungary. ''There can be no development of the political system without developing the economic system, or vice-versa. Our experience tells us that superficial changes in one or the other are no guarantee of substantive change of lasting nature.''
The Prime Minister said he did not mean to characterize Polish or Hungarian restructuring as superficial. Multiple-candidate elections have long been held in Yugoslavia, but all candidates have the blessing of the Socialist Alliance and represent no opposition forces.
Mr. Markovic avoided replying directly to questions on whether he favored the creation of independent parties, but hinted at the reasons for his reticence when asked whether he shared the view that in this multi-national country a multi-party system would produce parties along nationality lines and heighten ethnic tensions.
''That could easily be the case,'' he said. ''Our reality is very complex. We are one country with two alphabets, three religions, four languages, five nationalities, six republics and 23 million incorrigible individualists.'' Nationalist tensions in Yugoslavia are believed by experts on Eastern and Central Europe to be even more dangerous than those in the Soviet Union. The nationalities are more evenly balanced in numbers and the Belgrade Government lacks the strong central power of Moscow. The six component republics and two provinces wield considerably more authority than the Soviet republics and regions.
As Prime Minister, Mr. Markovic has authority covering largely the conception and execution, over much resistance from the republics, of economic policy.
He said that although many of the economic indicators were negative and worse could be expected, his Government had a framework to apply the laws of the market to the collective Communist economy. ''We came to the conclusion that, the market being an achievement of our civilization, it is irreplacable, and we accept that now.''
The Prime Minister said that inflation stood at more than 800 percent over the last 12 months, and that 1.1 million of the work force of 6.5 million were unemployed. But he said progress was being made in reducing the foreign debt, reported to be close to $20 billion, raising convertible-currency reserves and increasing productivity and exports.
In his meetings with Mr. Bush, Cabinet members, leaders of international lending institutions, bankers and businessmen, Mr. Markovic said, he would urge support for joint ventures in Yugoslavia, more transfer of Western technology, advantages for Yugoslav exports and help with management training.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (94%); POLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID POLITICS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); RELIGION (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MARKOVIC, ANTE (PRIME MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



240 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Albany Gets Private Offer To Purchase Its Airport

BYLINE: By CARL H. LAVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 6

 BODY:
While virtually every American airport served by scheduled airliners is publicly owned, Albany County is considering an unusual offer by a private group to buy its 61-year-old airport.
If the deal goes through, other airports may follow suit.
The private proposal to the Albany County Legislature comes from a group that wants to buy or lease the airfield, the gateway to the capital region and the Adirondacks. Aviation experts said that the investors would be the first to gain control of a large public airport and that public agencies in other states would probably jump at the chance to do the same thing, thereby bolstering budgets while escaping the headaches of managing a complicated transportation resource.
 
Problems Also for Sale
''This is indeed novel,'' said Quentin S. Taylor, the top airport official at the Federal Aviation Administration. 
More is at stake than just the name on the airport sign.
Free enterprise advocates say private ownership could solve knotty problems that limit airport expansion and contribute to delays, crowding and safety concerns. ''The natural solution is the privatization of airports,'' said Bernard F. Conners, chairman of British American, a local real-estate company that, together with Lockheed Air Terminal Inc., hopes to buy or lease the airport.
Airport officials in Peoria, Ill., and Los Angeles are already talking about similar deals. Lockheed Air Terminal, a subsidiary of the Lockheed Corporation, has almost finished a privately owned international terminal in Toronto.
Two years ago Albany's County Executive, James J. Coyne, proposed selling the airfield to a public transportation agency that operates buses in four counties here. Negotiations for that sale at $24.25 million were near completion this summer when British American offered $30 million.
The private group presented another choice, too: a 40-year lease that could ultimately bring the county three times as much money. Under it, the county would get $25.5 million right away, $24.5 million more over 40 years, and $40 million more for the next 40 years if the lease were renewed.
Each concern said it would invest more than $100 million in the terminal, expanding and adding jetways that enable passengers to board planes without going outside. Despite Albany's winters, the nine-gate airport here has only two jetways.
Critics of the deal, including a local business development group, insist that only a public agency would represent the diverse interests catered to by a commercial airport. And they say that a private airport operator would lose eligibility for Federal money. ''Are we going to be the guinea pig and risk the loss of whatever quality development we need?'' said Kenneth C. Wagner, director of the Center for Economic Growth, an nonprofit group financed by businesses here.
Airlines worry that a private operator may cut services to increase profits. USAir, which carries about a third of the two million passengers flying into and out of Albany each year, said it favored the bus company's offer, which would keep the field in public hands.
The F.A.A. is studying whether a private operator would remain eligible for grants, Mr. Taylor said. An answer, expected this month, will open the way to a decision by the County Legislature.
''The primary thing that we are interested in is that the facility continue to be available to the flying public,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''We want to protect our investment.''
 
Cash Squeeze for County
While Washington wrestles with eligibility questions, county officials in Albany say their top concern is getting the most from the deal.
Mr. Coyne said his preliminary 1990 budget, due to be released Tuesday, would include income from the sale or lease of the airport. ''Raising property taxes is the only other alternative,'' he said.
Much of the cash squeeze comes from cuts in Federal and state contributions and a big cost overrun for a new stadium in downtown Albany.
Not far from the new stadium, Frank J. Commisso stood at the counter of his deli, serving up Gorgonzola cheese, fresh linguini and an ode to private enterprise. As head of the mass-transit committee of the County Legislature, he could be the deciding voice in the debate over the airport.
If the decision rests heavily on his shoulders, he doesn't show it as he tells customers short of cash to pay him next time and answers questions about the airport.
''I'd like to see it go to British American Lockheed,'' Mr. Commisso said. ''They will cater to the passenger trade.''
He said a lease would allow the county to retain the land for generations. ''I'm sure my children will be saying 40 years from now, 'Hey, dad, we didn't think that you knew so much, but this is really worth something.' ''
He said he was still concerned about the job security of airport workers, the cleanup of fuel spills that have tainted the ground under the field and the ability of British American Lockheed to obtain grants. These topics will be on the table when the transit committee meets Wednesday, he said.
 
Public Ownership Backed
Dennis J. Fitzgerald, executive director of the Capital District Transportation Authority, manages bus operations in four counties and is ready to take over the airport, he said. He is proud of the authority's 60-cent fare, the lowest in the state, he said, and is sure his agency could do a good job with the airport.
''The primary role of public officials is to serve the public,'' Mr. Fitzgerald said. ''Does a private owner and manager have that same accountability to the public?''
''We're counting on reinvesting everything made at the airport in the airport,'' he added in a dig at the profit-hungry private sector.
Mr. Conners has a quick response. ''The profit motive isn't always that bad,'' he said as a maid served coffee in his English manor house just outside Albany. ''That's what our whole economy is based on.''
Or almost the whole economy, noted his partner, Viggo M. Butler, president of Lockheed Air Terminal. ''When someone goes on a trip,'' Mr. Butler said, ''everything they come in contact with is provided by private entities -the bus or limousine, the airplane, the airline - except the airport. And the airport's always underfinanced.''
 
Large Expansions Lag
While Lockheed manages other public airports, including Stewart and Republic in New York State, it does not have a stake in the finances of those fields. Public airport expansions are financed with a delicate blend of airline leases, bond issues and Federal grants, and are further shaped by environmental restrictions and neighborhood sensitivites.
Traffic increases, tight budgets and sprawling development have made huge expansions more difficult. No large new airports have opened in the United States since Dallas-Fort Worth in 1974, although Denver received Federal approval last month for a new airport after years of public debate. Dozens of airport operators have found it impossible to expand as fast as the air travel market has grown since deregulation began in 1978.
Most of an airport's budget usually comes from concession rentals and airline fees. Operating losses are usually made up by the airlines, and any surpluses are used to improve the field or to reduce airline fees the next year. Agencies that take Federal airport grants are prohibited from using any surplus for non-aviation projects.
One big question Albany County has for the F.A.A. is about the status of any lease payments. Mr. Taylor said the agency was near a decision on whether those payments could be used in the county's general budget.

GRAPHIC: Bernard F. Conners, chairman of British American, at the Albany County airport, which his company has offered to buy or lease. ''The natural solution is the privatization of airports,'' he said. (NYT/David Jennings)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (85%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); PEORIA, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (85%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH AMERICAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALBANY COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; ALBANY COUNTY AIRPORT (NY)

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS AIRPORTS (94%); AIRLINES (90%); COUNTIES (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (56%); 

PERSON: LAVIN, CARL H; CONNERS, BERNARD F



241 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Rising Taxes Are Issue In Jersey Shore District

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OCEAN TOWNSHIP, N.J., Oct. 6

 BODY:
The green lawns of many homes in the 11th Assembly District along the Jersey Shore are festooned these days with ''for sale'' signs.
The string of small beachfront communities from Sandy Hook south to the Manasquan inlet were once summer resorts whose housing ranged from unheated bungalows to mansions to huge wood-frame hotels. The seasonal population gave way to permanent residents after the Garden State Parkway opened in the 1950's, but most of the jobs remained in the urban north. The communities had to rely on taxes on the new residents' homes to pay for added services and schools. 
The growth in these taxes has placed home ownership out of the reach of many young couples looking for their first home and is squeezing many longtime residents whose incomes are unable to keep pace with the growth in taxes.
 
'Can't Afford to Live Here'
''They should just put a for-sale sign on the whole state,'' said Maria Bertucci, owner of Maria's Colonial Inn in Manasquan. ''People can't afford to live here any longer.
''When I see regular customers who haven't been around for a while, they tell me they've moved to Virginia or South Carolina, where they can build or buy a bigger home than they could afford here,'' she said.
The campaign for the district's State Senate seat and two Assembly seats has focused on environmental concerns linked to ocean pollution that has fouled area beaches in recent summers and on abortion and automobile insurance. But evidence of the migration out of the area is forcing the tax issue into the campaign.
''As I go around, I meet people who tell me they are leaving the state because of high taxes and auto insurance rates, and that bothers me,'' said Assemblyman Joseph A. Palaia, a Republican who is running for the State Senate seat that became vacant last November when Senator Frank Pallone won a special election to Congress.
''The quickest way to reduce property taxes is to fully fund state aid to education,'' Assemblyman Palaia said. ''School costs make up half or more of local budgets.''
 
A Former Teacher
Mr. Palaia, a former teacher and school principal, is chairman of the Assembly Education Committee and is campaigning on his sponsorship of a bill that would put state aid to local schools on a current year basis, instead of the present system that reimburses towns for increases in school costs the following year.
He said this change would cost the state $247 million and should be phased in over three years, starting with the poorest school districts.
The level of state funds is set initially by the governor when he submits his budget to the Legislature, and Gov. Thomas H. Kean has fully financed the state school aid formula in only one of his eight years, in 1985 when he ran for re-election and the state's economy was booming.
Mr. Kean has increased state school aid each year but has said the formula is outstripping the state's ability to finance it and should be revised.
Democrats said the 62-year-old Mr. Palaia must shoulder his share of the blame for the level of aid because of his committee chairmanship.
Mr. Palaia's two Republican running mates in the Assembly race are making their first bids for state office. Paul A. Kapalko, 35, is a lawyer and former Asbury Park Councilman, and Dr. Dennis G. Sternberg, 40, is a dentist and environmental advocate who in 1986 helped found the Save Our Shores organization that gave voice to growing public concerns over ocean pollution.
 
Democratic Ticket
The Democratic ticket is headed by John D'Amico, a former Oceanport Councilman and Monmouth County Freeholder who was appointed to fill the Senate vacancy left by Mr. Pallone. The Assembly candidates are an incumbent, John A. Villapiano, 38, a former County Freeholder who won a special election to fill an Assembly vacancy in September 1988, and Daniel P. Jacobson, 27, an Ocean Township Councilman.
''This campaign is a microcosm of the governor's race,'' Mr. D'Amico said. ''Essentially, I've taken the same positions as Florio on the major issues, abortion, auto insurance, the environment and gun control, and my opponent has taken positions similar to Courter's.'' Representatives James J. Florio, a Democrat, and Jim Courter, a Republican, are opposing each other in the race for governor.
In the Assembly race, the Democratic campaign literature mentions Mr. Florio, who Mr. Courter has conceded is leading in their race, while the Republican campaign literature does not mention Mr. Courter.
''As long as Florio keeps rolling along, I'll be happy,'' said Jay Neel, the Democrats' legislative campaign manager for the district.
While Dr. Sternberg probably has the highest public profile as an environmental advocate, he has not been endorsed by any environmental organization. Allan Willinger, chairman of the Sierra Club's Committee on Political Action, said the organization felt Dr. Sternberg was ''a single-issue candidate.'' But it did endorse Mr. Kapalko for his work on commissions that worked to clean up two lakes in Asbury Park, and it also endorsed Mr. D'Amico for his sponsorship of the Natural Resources Trust Fund bill and Mr. Jacobson for his efforts to preserve open space in his hometown.
Mr. Jacobson said the Sierra Club endorsement and another by the Vote Environment Committee were vital to Democratic hopes of victory. ''And this is not just an endorsement - there will be a green army of volunteers knocking on doors,'' he said.
 
'Yelling and Screaming'
Dr. Sternberg, who has advised Mr. Kean on ocean pollution programs, said, ''I've been yelling and screaming from the back of the room about pollution problems for 10 years, and now I want the opportunity to help pass the laws that will solve the problem.''
All the candidates say changes in the state's tax system must be made to reduce reliance on property taxes. ''We have to make sure living in New Jersey is still affordable and stop losing population to other states,'' Mr. Villipiano said. ''If our unemployment rate and interest rates go up even a little bit, a lot more people will be in trouble.''
Residents of the district have other concerns. Barbara Ruane, a waitress at the Old Orchard Inn in Eatontown, said she was upset by high auto insurance costs and has lost her desire to swim in the ocean near her home because of the pollution problems, but her primary concern is for the homeless.
''There should be more state funding to provide housing for the homeless, and some research to find out exactly how big the problem is,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Assemblyman Joseph A. Palaia, left, Republican candidate for the State Senate in New Jersey's 11th District, with his running mates in the Assembly race, Dr. Dennis G. Sternberg, left rear, and Paul A. Kapalko, right rear, as they met with David Brown outside a grocery store during a campaign stop. (NYT/Ray Fisk); State Senator John D'Amico, left, the Democratic candidate, with his running mates, John A. Villapiano, center, and Daniel P. Jacobson, at their Monmouth County headquarters as volunteers stuffed envelopes.; map of New Jersey showing location of the 11th Assembly District (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BEACHES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); RESORTS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (64%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (63%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (63%); WATER POLLUTION (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F FRANK PALLONE JR (58%); 



242 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Farmer's Apples Aren't Pretty, and She Likes Them That Way

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MILTON, N.Y., Oct. 6

 BODY:
For Amy Hepworth, a fruit grower here, a shiny red apple without a single blemish is a sign of an unhealthy agriculture.
Miss Hepworth operates a 300-acre fruit and vegetable farm without spraying the pesticides other commercial growers normally use to produce apples and other fruit without unsightly marks.
She describes herself as an ecological farmer who tries to do as little damage to the environment as possible. That means forgoing synthetic chemicals if possible, but using them if she believes they are less harmful to fruit, trees and soil than natural sprays. 
Even though growing fruit that way is expensive and labor-intensive, the biggest problem Miss Hepworth faces is that most consumers reject blemished apples despite a public concern about pesticides and food safety.
 
Accepting Blemishes
''Consumers want 100-percent-perfect fruit,'' she said.''The farmer cannot decrease his use of chemicals unless the consumer will accept some cosmetic blemishes on fruit. Those blemishes have no effect on flavor or quality. The consumer will have to change his idea of what fruit looks like if he wants pesticide-free food.''
Miss Hepworth, who is 29 years old, is in the forefront of a major change in American agriculture in which many farmers are trying to minimize the use of chemicals through a program called integrated pest management.
In a study made public last month, the National Academy of Sciences endorsed chemical-free farming after a 17-member panel of experts concluded it can often be just as productive and more profitable than farming with chemicals.
Miss Hepworth grows organically -without using chemicals - on about 80 acres, which yield fruit with black marks. She grows ecologically - with as few chemicals as possible - on about 170 acres, which yield almost blemish-free fruit. She also has about 20 acres in organic vegetables like carrots and onions.
 
Methods Viewed With Skepticism
Because she uses some chemicals, she is not a certified organic farmer. That does not bother her, she said, because she thinks the rigid requirements of organic farming are unrealistic for commercial operations.
In the farm belt of the Hudson Valley, Miss Hepworth's methods are viewed with considerable skepticism, said Warren Smith, the fruit expert of the Cooperative Extension Service of Cornell University.
''I admire what she is doing, but I don't think she can make an economic success of it,'' he said.
In integrated pest management, farmers first use pest-resistant plants and biological controls for insects and then monitor their crops for damage before resorting to chemical sprays. A recent survey by Cornell reported that 80 percent of New York growers were using some form of integrated pest management.
 
Safety Biggest Concern
Safety is the biggest reason for concern about the use of synthetic pesticides. This year, for example, Alar, a chemical used to keep apples on trees longer, until they can be picked, was withdrawn from the market after consumer objections and reports that it might be a carcinogen.
Unlike most other commercial growers, Miss Hepworth does not use artificial fertilizers or weed-killers. She spreads organic matter as fertilizer and feeds trees with a leaf spray of kelp, bone meal and rock dust.
She uses various forms of spores and soap to control predators like aphids, mites, leaf rollers and psylla. When apples are picked, she does not use dips to kill fungus growth or wax to enhance shine.
Despite her largely organic methods, Miss Hepworth rejects some predator controls recommended by the organic movement.
 
Using Some Chemicals
For example, she disapproves of spraying sulfur on trees seven to 12 times a growing season to control primary scab. ''The sulfur spray is harsh and acidifies the soil, which is detrimental to the land,'' she said.
Instead, she uses a synthetic fungicide called Rubigan. ''It's highly specific, it's biodegradable, it's benign, it has been released by the Environmental Protection Agency after 17 years of testing and you use much less of it than sulfur,'' she said.
Miss Hepworth's apples and vegetables fill scores of baskets labeled ''ecological'' at the stand in front of her farm here on Route 9W in the heart of the fruit area of Ulster County. The farm, owned by her mother, Lois, has been in the family since 1818.
Apples labeled ''ecological'' were free of marks, but there were few apples at the stand that were grown organically, because they were covered with black marks left by fungus disease. Miss Hepworth sells most of her organic production to wholesalers who supply natural food stores.
 
Wholesale Operation Unprofitable
So far, she said, consumers who will accept the blemished fruit are few and far between. She has about 15,000 bushels of McIntosh apples, almost 15 percent of her total production, that she has been unable to sell.
Despite the skepticism about her methods, Miss Hepworth, who started to reduce chemical use on her farm eight years ago, is not discouraged. Although the farm's wholesale operation is not profitable, she keeps going through sales at the farm stand, which is operated by her mother, and a cider mill.
She said she believes in trying to minimize chemical use to maintain healthy land and food.
''As an ecological grower, I believe in doing everything possible organically,'' she said. ''But I also believe in using technology for the betterment of the planet.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Amy Hepworth, right rear, describing the merits of red apples with blemishes as she conducted a lecture on her farm in Milton, N.Y. (NYT/Eddie Hausner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (54%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: APPLES; PESTICIDES AND PESTS; FRUIT FRUITS & VEGETABLES (92%); PESTICIDES (91%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (90%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (89%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); PRODUCT SAFETY (74%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); 

PERSON: HEPWORTH, AMY; FABER, HAROLD



243 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 18, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Opera Musicians Reject Pact

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
The orchestra of the New York City Opera, which has been on strike since Sept. 13, voted 56 to 4 on Saturday to reject the company's latest proposal. The vote was tabulated yesterday. The rejection increases the possibility of a cancellation of the rest of the company's season, scheduled to run until Nov. 19. Martin J. Oppenheimer, vice chairman of the City Opera board and its chief labor negotiator, said yesterday that the company's ''key players'' would meet tomorrow morning. The City Opera had given the orchestra until yesterday to agree to a settlement, after which it said it would cancel the rest of the season. 
By ''key players'' he meant himself; Robert W. Wilson, the board chairman; Christopher Keene, the general director, and other members of the administrative staff.
John Palanchian, a City Opera violinist for 22 years and vice president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, which represents the orchestra, said yesterday that the musicians were fully prepared for a cancellation announcement.
 
'They're Not Going to Work'
''This was a vote taken with the secure knowledge that the season is over,'' Mr. Palanchian said.
The company's proposal came late Friday evening at the end of an eight-hour bargaining session, the first to include Timothy Germany of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
The musicians have been seeking wage increases of more than 20 percent, to achieve parity with the orchestras of the Lyric Opera of Chicago and the San Francisco Opera.
In its Friday offer, the company abandoned its effort to eliminate six weeks beyond the regular 23-week season in which it has been providing the musicians either full employment or half-pay supplemental income. The proposal was for a four-year pact (as opposed to the normal three years) with a 5 1/2 percent wage increase each year (and an additional 1 percent that could be applied to wages, but would almost definitely go to shore up the welfare fund instead).
Mr. Palanchian said yesterday that a 5 1/2 percent wage increase not only failed to address the goal of parity, but was also actually one-half of 1 percentage point under the current inflation rate.
Asked if the season could still be revived after a cancellation notice, Mr. Oppenheimer indicated that the season might be saved if a compromise could be reached quickly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION INSURANCE CO (66%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (56%); FEDERAL MEDIATION & CONCILIATION SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY OPERA

SUBJECT: OPERA; STRIKES; ORCHESTRAS AND OTHER MUSIC GROUPS SINGERS & MUSICIANS (93%); STRIKES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (75%); INFLATION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN CHRISTOPHER KEENE (56%); 



244 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL REPORT
 
The Bush Administration is under growing pressure from West Germany and other European allies, as well as American manufacturers, to allow the export of sophisticated machine tools to Communist countries. [Page D1.]
 
West Germany's unions are pushing to reduce the workweek to 35 hours, from the current average of 38.7, without cutting the salaries of workers. [D8.] 
 
The wines of Baja California hope to follow Mexico's beer in appealing to the American palate. Both large vintners and boutique wineries are involved. [D8.]
 
COMPANIES
 
Dai-Ichi Kangyo, the world's largest bank, has sought as its most precious commodity not money but knowledge of new U.S. markets and new business methods. [D1.]
 
Companies with freight to ship are having trouble finding airplanes on short notice, and freight rates have begun to rise. Air-freight carriers seeking more capacity have placed new orders with aircraft manufacturers. But the manufacturers could be slow to respond. [D1.]
 
Goldman, Sachs will charge retail investors for holding their securities, in a move intended to compensate the firm for the cost of ''custodian services.'' [D3.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
The nation's employers are on the verge of a sweeping legislative triumph that would free them of what are widely acknowledged to be overly burdensome regulations governing health insurance and other employee benefits. [D1.]
 
From a practical standpoint, the across-the-board spending reductions in Government programs that would automatically go into effect this week would make little difference. News Analysis. [A11.]
 
The Financial Accounting Standards Board will extend the date by which companies should adopt its new rules on how income tax expense is reported to shareholders. [D2.]
 
The S.E.C. is examining the ''junk bond'' market, seeking more information about the nature of the $200 billion dealer market, particularly since the market's steep decline in September, people close to the investigation said. [D1.]
 
MEDIA BUSINESS
 
Young & Rubicam's indictment on charges that it bribed Jamaican officials to obtain the nation's tourism advertising account raises ethical questions. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D1.]
 
The sale of three small South Carolina dailies has left many in the newspaper industry scratching their heads in wonder at the huge prices papers generally command. Press. [D6.]
 
The Independent is regarded as a model of a successful newspaper start-up, as the British paper marks its third birthday. [D6.]
 
MTV is having a profound influence on the way products are advertised on television. [D6.]
 
Ivan Obolensky, an investment banker, is often sought as an expert on publishing mergers. [D6.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
A Federal court has decided that a law firm can avoid a conflict-of-interest accusation by ousting a partner. Stephen Labaton: Business and the Law. [D2.]
 
Hong Kong's financial secretary is ''beating the drum'' for the bustling market at China's door. But the turmoil in China has dampened the enthusiasm of foreign investors. Market Place. [D4.]
 
The Federal Reserve Board is not likely to move quickly to lower interest rates, despite fresh signs of economic weakness, analysts predict. Credit Markets. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAMAICA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WINERIES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WORK WEEK (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); RETAILERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (74%); AIR FREIGHT (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); INDICTMENTS (72%); INCOME TAX (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); ETHICS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (65%); ACCOUNTING (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); PUBLISHING (61%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 



245 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: A Debate On Controls Of Exports

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Faced with calls for increased economic cooperation with Poland and Hungary, the Bush Administration is under growing pressure from its European allies, led by West Germany, to allow the export of sophisticated machine tools to Communist countries.
The debate is complicated by the position of American makers of machine tools, who sense an expanding market and are generally taking the European side.
But the Bush Administration is worried that enforcement of export controls is lagging. So great are its concerns that President Bush sent letters to allied leaders in September urging them to tighten procedures aimed at keeping high technology with military applications from falling into Communist hands, Administration officials said. 
 
Maintaining Export Curbs
The Atlantic debate exemplifies the problems the Western industrial nations and Japan will face in trying to maintain export curbs in the 1990's.
The controls are managed by the Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls, or Cocom. The organization, based in Paris, was formed more than 40 years ago, when the cold war had just begun, and now consists of 17 nations.
Machine tools are essentially machines that make other machines. The more advanced are computer-operated, with a dozen or more cutting axes, or cutting directions, and are able to shape metal to an accuracy of a ten-thousandth of an inch.
Such versatile precision machines have been a focus of Cocom for two years, since the Toshiba Machine Company of Japan and Kongsberg Vaapenfabrikk of Norway illegally sold the Soviet Union advanced tools that could be used to build silent submarine propellers.
The European complaint is that the Cocom tool controls have not been liberalized in 15 years. While the group bans export of tools like those that may have helped to strengthen the Soviet Navy, it catches in the same net many other tools that are far less sophisticated, of the type already manufactured to some extent in East Germany and in newly industrialized countries like Taiwan and South Korea.
 
Demands for Technology
At the same time, demands for more advanced technology to reshape the economies of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union are spurring industries in West Germany and other industrial countries, unhappy with any type of export controls, to press their governments to liberalize the rules.
There are strong economic incentives. About 45 percent of West German machine tool exports, excluding shipments to East Germany, end up in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
The Soviet Union alone imports about $1 billion a year worth of machine tools from industrial countries. The West Germans account for up to 40 percent of the Soviet market, industry officials say, and the Japanese about 10 percent. American sales are a paltry $1 million to $3 million a year.
Yet the United States industry expects improved exports as well, and is becoming a strong force for liberalization in Washington. ''The important thing is to have a level of technology that reflects reality,'' said Jim Mack, spokesman for the National Machine Tool Builders Association, which represents the industry. ''To assume that other people are going to control the day-before-yesterday's technology is nuts.''
 
Call for Cooperation
In Bonn, Foreign Minister Hans Dietrich Genscher said last week in a radio interview: ''We have to assist the reform-oriented countries via comprehensive cooperation. This means economic and technological cooperation. It means assistance to help in modernizing their agriculture. It also means to give expertise, exchange of experts, transfer of technology and examination of the Cocom list.''
Bonn's aim, noted Hans-Henning Horstmann, spokesman at the West German Embassy in Washington, is ''to trim the Cocom lady to what the French would call a mannequin to suit the policies of today.''
He added, ''In an age where via dialogue and cooperation we try to assist reform processes in Poland, Hungary and the U.S.S.R., Cocom is outdated.''
Washington's response has been to press the allies to commit to better enforcement, while maintaining an open position on streamlining the embargo list.
One problem, officials said, is that enforcement is not uniform. The allies do not have in place the kind of rigorous bureaucratic system for controlling exports that the United States uses.
When there is ambiguity in the regulations, American officials point out, the Europeans and Japanese tend to rule in favor of allowing the export, while in Washington there is probably a greater tendency to deny it.
 
'Torrent' of Actions
In a recent study, the Center for Security Policy, a Washington-based policy research group that reflects hard-line Pentagon thinking, called for ''an immediate moratorium on the torrent of decontrol actions now being proposed.''
In recognition of the high stakes, the President himself has intervened. His letter to the allied leaders, one Administration official said, expressed the view that ''we're very concerned and we need to reach agreement on compliance, enforcement and streamlining.''
Still, no one is predicting an early agreement. As one American official put it, ''There is every chance of a major confrontation.'' At a Cocom meeting in Paris on Thursday and Friday, American officials again resisted the European and Japanese calls for liberalization.
 
Next Round of Debate
The next round of the debate among higher-level officials will be in Paris on Oct. 25 and 26. The American negotiating team will be led by Reginald Bartholomew, Under Secretary of State for coordinating security assistance programs; Paul D. Wolfowitz, Under Secretary for defense policy, and Dennis E. Kloske, Under Secretary of Commerce for export administration.
One possible outcome that officials have been discussing is the establishment of a special category for Poland and Hungary, relaxing restrictions more for them than for the Soviet Union and other countries of Eastern Europe.
In 1985, Cocom made such a concession for China, then in the throes of economic reform, to differentiate it from other Communist countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6104 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3555 PRINTING TRADES MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (94%); HUNGARY (93%); POLAND (93%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA MACHINE CO LTD (83%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (83%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; POLAND; HUNGARY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (93%); EXPORT CONTROLS (93%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



246 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Cargo Boom Causes Plane Shortage

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Sharp growth in cargo shipments by air is producing a shortage of freighter aircraft around the world. Companies with freight to ship are having trouble finding planes on short notice, and freight rates have begun to rise.
Air-freight carriers seeking more capacity have placed new orders with aircraft manufacturers, which might be slow to respond because of large backlogs of passenger-plane orders. Indeed, the Boeing Company has delayed until 1993 the scheduled initial deliveries of its giant 747-400 freighters. If a strike by the company's 58,000 machinists that began on Wednesday lasts a long time, even that timetable may slip.
In the meantime, freight carriers are bidding up the price of used planes and refitting those that had been in passenger service at a cost that can run to $18 million each. 
 
Economic Expansion a Factor
Demand for fast transportation has grown worldwide, with air-freight movements increasing by a third in the last three years. Industry experts attribute the expansion to prolonged growth in the global economy, burgeoning exports from the United States and the growing tendency of companies producing parts in one country and assembling them in another.
So severe has the shortage of planes become that when the Defense Department began a 160-flight effort to deliver food, electric generators and communications equipment to communities devastated by Hurricane Hugo last month, its sudden need for cargo planes snarled United States military air transportation around the globe.
Altogether, more than 100 military air transport missions were postponed because no civilian air freighters were available for charter to replace military transports abruptly diverted, a spokesman for the Military Airlift Command said. The planes were needed not only in the hurricane relief effort but for moving equipment to Colombia for the effort against drug traffickers.
''The air carriers are at 100 percent, or near that, and can't pull an aircraft,'' said Col. Ronald N. Priddy, the command's assistant for civilian air operations. ''Most of our major peacetime exercises suffer somewhat.''
While the growth in air freight will likely prompt the manufacture of additional planes, giving the military access to more aircraft for mobilization in wartime, the current shortage makes it difficult for the Defense Department to find planes on short notice now, said Colonel Priddy. ''Almost on a daily basis we run into that problem,'' he said.
 
Foreign Factories Affected
Civilian shipping agents are also having trouble finding planes. Hemisphere Forwarding Inc., a Long Island-based shipper, was recently asked to fly a 9.5-ton piece of factory equipment to Bombay, India, but could not, said Morton Brautman, the president and chief executive.
''It was too high to fit in the passenger planes and there was no cargo plane available,'' he said. ''So they had to send it by ship, which can take a month.''
Factories in underdeveloped countries often have to shut when they cannot obtain delivery of key equipment, Mr. Brautman added.
In a sign of how tight the supply of freighters is, the cost on scheduled freighter flights from the eastern United States to East Asia in September approached that of a special charter flight for the first time in recent years, said Fumiaki Niizeka, vice president for Japan Air Lines's cargo operations in the West.
J.A.L. raised its rates to Japan to $1.10 a pound, from 90 cents, on Oct. 1, Mr. Niizeka said, adding that this particular decision reflected strong demand rather than a lack of planes at the carrier. The higher rates make it less profitable for American companies to export.
On the other hand, the cost of freight moving by air from East Asia to the United States is more than double that for goods moving the opposite direction - reflecting the United State's huge appetite for imports.
 
Increased Production Expected
Although Boeing declines to commit itself, industry experts expect the company to produce the $120 million 747-400 freighter jet on an accelerated schedule, which would likely end the current shortage. Boeing had delayed production of the freighter in order to address a larger-than-anticipated demand for the passenger version, a spokeswoman said.
The McDonnell Douglas Corporation delivered its last DC-10 freighter in July, and will start delivering a successor, the MD-11F, in 1991, a company spokesman said. Airbus Industrie, a European consortium based in Toulouse, France, is a small player in the freighter market, having produced only six freighters and convertible freighter-passenger planes out of its total production of 550 aircraft over the last 15 years, a spokesman said. Airbus is not currently producing freighters or convertibles.
In the meantime, Boeing is setting up a plant in Wichita, Kan., to convert passenger 747's into freighters beginning next year. The process consists of removing the passenger-cabin interior, cutting a 10-foot-by-11-foot side door, and installing a stronger floor and cargo handling equipment. The plant already has six orders - two from established air shippers and four from latecomers to the international air freight business, Evergreen International Aviation Inc., with three planes ordered, and United Parcel Service Inc., with one on order.
Pemco Aeroplex Inc., a subsidiary of Denver-based Precision Standard Inc., has already converted several 747's and has several more on the way, said Walter F. Moede, the senior vice president and chief financial officer of Precision Standard. In addition, he said, ''there are a lot of 727's being done.''
But a converted passenger jet has several limitations, especially in moving large or heavy cargo, said G. Antoine Girot, the deputy vice president for cargo of Air France. ''It hasn't got the same lift, it hasn't got a nose door - it's not adequate,'' he said.
Air France placed a $600 million order last month for five Boeing 747-400 freighters, becoming the first airline to do so. Ten other airlines have had serious discussions with Boeing about buying the new plane, the aircraft manufacturer said.
 
Value Increases With Age
The limited supply of aircraft has meant that planes, unlike most cars, are increasing in value as they age. The quoted price for a Boeing 747-200 freighter built in 1979 is now $65 million, compared with an initial delivery price 10 years ago of $40 million, said William B. Kilerlane, the director of appraisals at Avmark Inc., an aircraft brokerage in Rosslyn, Va. Yet few planes are changing hands even at the quoted price because current owners need them.
The current order backlog at major aircraft manufacturers is also making it harder for carriers to order spare parts for aircraft no longer in production. The Airborne Freight Corporation, a Seattle-based shipper, began milling its own spare parts for aging DC-8's and DC-9's a year and a half ago after learning that McDonnell Douglas could take as long as five years to do the job, said Graham E. Dorland, the chairman of ABX Air Inc., Airborne's air operations and package-sorting subsidiary. ''If they cannot supply us with a part, they supply us with an engineering diagram,'' he said.
Recent increases in air freight rates may in part reflect the continued use of older, inefficient aircraft by carriers unable to acquire more modern equipment, said Edwin C. Laird, of the Air Cargo Management Group, a Seattle consulting concern.
Other experts disagree. The higher depreciation costs associated with buying new planes may balance out the greater operating costs of older planes, said R. Lawrence Hughes, a senior vice president and director of the DHL Corporation, an express-package shipper.
Two circumstances have prevented the shortage of aircraft from becoming even more severe. One is that much of the growth in worldwide air freight has come on flights from the United States that until recently had a lot of extra space.
''This is really an exceptional time in air cargo, when carriers are flying good loads in both directions,'' said William H. Clarke of Airline Economics, a Washington consulting concern.
The other circumstance is that passenger airlines still have plenty of room in the bellies of their aircraft on some routes for hauling cargo as well as travelers' baggage. As much as three-quarters of the cargo capacity aboard some American Airlines passenger jets is unused. The problem is that this extra space exists mostly on domestic routes, that passenger flight schedules often don't meet the demands of shippers and that some cargoes might pose a hazard to passengers.

GRAPHIC: photo of Japan Airlines cargo plane (NYT/Dith Pran); graph of cargo movements from '79 to '88 (Source: International Civil Aviation Org.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MUMBAI, INDIA (76%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (91%); INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION ORGANIZATION (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FREIGHT; SHORTAGES AIR FREIGHT (91%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRLINES (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FREIGHT BROKERS & FORWARDERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); NEW ORDERS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); HURRICANES (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (70%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH



247 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Business Near Victory on Worker Benefits

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Led by an army of inflamed small-business owners, the nation's 3.5 million employers are on the verge of a sweeping legislative triumph that would free them of what are widely acknowledged as overly burdensome regulations governing health-insurance and other employee benefits.
Whether approved as part of omnibus budget legislation or as a separate measure, repeal of intricate rules forcing employers to prove each year that their benefit plans do not discriminate in favor of senior management at the expense of the rank and file is almost certain to be signed by President Bush, and soon.
''Section 89 and all its descendants and siblings are pretty thoroughly dead,'' declared Edward Thomas Veal, a senior manager in the Washington office of Touche, Ross & Company, the accounting firm. Section 89 of the tax code would impose administrative requirements on corporate America that even its authors now admit were ''wildly too complex'' in the words of one aide to the House Ways and Means Committee. 
 
Growing Rebellion
The provisions, which initially received little attention, are contained in the huge 1986 overhaul of the tax law, but they have yet to be applied. For various reasons, including legislative refinement, it took until this March before the Internal Revenue Service could issue hundreds of pages of regulations to enforce the provision and the growing rebellion has prompted repeated postponement in bringing them to bear on business. The provisions were supposed to take effect at the beginning of 1989.
Conceived in the Reagan Administration's Treasury and supported heavily by Democrats, Section 89 is likely to be recorded as one of the more egregious examples of how the Government's execution of a well-intentioned idea threatened to produce the opposite results. Many employers, especially smaller ones, said they would drop benefit plans rather than hire the help needed to meet the paperwork requirements.
With employers able to deduct the cost of such fringe benefits as health insurance and group life insurance from their income taxes - at a cost to the Treasury of an estimated $38 billion a year - a main goal of Section 89 was to prevent companies from setting their plans up in a way that gives disproportionate advantages to senior executives. The rank-and-file, in other words, should get a reasonable share of a public subsidy.
 
Variety of Goals
Other goals were to encourage companies to provide fringe benefit-packages to the 37 million Americans without them, and to raise revenue.
By this spring, however, the complexity of the requirements had inspired such a backlash from the United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Federation of Independent Business and others that a majority of the House was co-sponsoring a bill for repeal. The measure was initiated by John J. LaFalce, Democrat of Buffalo, and head of the House Committee on Small Business.
After various efforts by Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, to find a compromise, the House voted 390 to 36 in late September to scrap the rules. The Senate, where a similar measure has committee approval, is expected to follow.
 
'We'll Be Back to Fight'
Speculation has already begun about what may happen when the issue resurfaces, probably by spring. Mr. Rostenkowski, though badly bruised on this and other tax issues this year, vowed just before the House repeal vote to try again. ''Section 89 may go away, but the issue of fundamental health-care protection for rank-and-file Americans will not,'' he pledged. ''We'll be back to fight again another day.''
Most business groups and other opponents of Section 89 - there is almost no organized support - agree there will be new challenges.
''No issue ever goes away,'' said John L. Norman, national director of taxation at Pannell Kerr Forster, an accounting firm. He thinks one of the first efforts may involve ending tax benefits for plans for executives only.
But other ideas abound, with legislators likely to be drawn to those that could raise significant revenue. The notion of a simple levy on benefits received can probably be ruled out -imagine sending somebody who has just had open-heart surgery an extra tax bill - but Congress could decide to tax individuals for the premiums used to provide specific benefits.
Or the Government can limit the amount of benefits companies can deduct from their taxable income.
 
'Jammed on the Accelerator'
In addition to raising money, any levy that would discourage overuse of insured health care would serve the broader purpose of curbing demands on the nation's medical system and thereby counter inflation. The fact that health premiums are tax free -compensation better than cash -means ''we have our foot jammed on the accelerator,'' an aide to the Senate Finance Committee said.
''There are going to be attempts to tax employee benefits,'' said Sharon Canner, an industrial relations specialist for the National Association of Manufacturers. With a proposal now circulating for taxing pension funds, even the status of health benefits seems threatened, analysts suggest.
Nor is Mr. Rostenkowski likely to find it difficult to find supporters for a practical way to achieve the anti-discrimination goal. Some, however, question how big a problem this is apart from corporations of lawyers, doctors and other professionals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROSS & CO PC (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; LABOR; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; SMALL BUSINESS; FRINGE BENEFITS LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAX REFORM (77%); LIFE INSURANCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); GROUP LIFE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 



248 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Company To Go Private

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Oct. 8

 BODY:
The First Constitution Financial Corporation has agreed to be taken private by a group of New York investors at a price of $25 a share, or a total of $275 million.
The New Haven-based bank holding company operates First Constitution Bank, which has 25 branches in New Haven and Fairfield counties. W. Grant Gregory, former chairman of Touche Ross & Company, the accounting firm, said the investors had been attracted to Connecticut's economy and the bank's management.
Other principal investors are Frank J. Hoenemeyer, retired vice chairman of Prudential Insurance; Robert L. Kemper, former vice chairman of Wells Fargo Bank; R. T. McNamar, former Deputy Treasury Secretary, and Donald H. Rundlett, chairman and chief executive of Private Capital Partners in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ARISTOTLE CORP (93%); 1ST CONSTITUTION BANK (58%); WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); ROSS & CO PC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST CONSTITUTION FINANCIAL CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES GOING PRIVATE (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK BRANCHES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: ROBERT L KEMPER (57%); 



249 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Funds Cautious On Hong Kong

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
SIR PIERS JACOBS, Hong Kong's financial secretary, is out ''beating the drum'' for the bustling market at China's door.
In New York, London and Paris last week, the No. 3 man in the Government worked to counter the the negative impact of June's massacre in Bejing's Tiananmen Square.
But the victory by the hard-liners in Bejing has raised some serious doubts among foreign investors who had been bullish on Hong Kong. And this attitude will affect the way the market is viewed until China's intentions are much clearer. 
Several international funds are scaling back their exposure in Hong Kong. They are now looking at the market, said Gavin Dobson of Murray Johnstone International Ltd., as a trading market in which to see an opportunity and get in and get out quickly. The long-term view, for him, has become less attractive.
The stocks these funds are looking at are also different. The funds are moving away from companies with large property holdings, which had been popular. If there is a problem with China, property values will drop the fastest. Even with the recovery since June, prices are 10 percent to 15 percent below where they were, economists say.
''We see quite a lot of potential if developments in China are reasonable,'' said David J. Warren, executive vice president of Rowe, Price, Fleming International in London. ''But we think there is a danger that hard-line forces allied with the army will consolidate their power, put a wall around China and say the capital road is not for us.''
Mr. Dobson of Murray Johnstone adds: ''With so much money to be made in politically safe countries, I don't see any reason to be overweighted in Hong Kong.''
The Hong Kong market tumbled in wake of the repression of the democracy movement and it stopped short only of its record fall in October 1987. But more important, the turmoil brought to the fore new concerns about what will happen to this free-market haven on July 1, 1997, when China takes over. The promise to continue the capitalist system for 50 years does not look so good now.
Sir Piers is optimistic, but he has to be - that is the party line. ''I think we're going through the most difficult time now,'' he said. ''In 1995, the situation could look good, far more optimistic than 1989 and 1990.''
Sir Piers argues that there are two factors favoring Hong Kong. The first is that China needs Honk Kong. ''China is not going to turn its back on the world,'' he said. He and others estimate that there are now about 1.5 million to 3 million Chinese working across the border from Hong Kong in Guangdong Province that are directly or indirectly employed by businesses in Hong Kong. A major portion of foreign loans and foreign investment since 1979 has also come from the colony.
The other factor is the resilience of the Chinese in Hong Kong. It is assumed that they can bounce back from almost anything, as they did from the crash of 1987, the impact of the Chinese Cultural Revolution in the 1960's and as, Sir Piers says, they are bouncing back now from June 4.
He acknowledges the problems of the worker shortage and the resulting inflation. And he says the future does not promise economic growth so strong as in the past.
But, he notes, the stock market, according to the Hang Seng index, has recovered 732.60 points since June 4 and at 2,809.96 on Friday is poised to break through 3,000 by year-end. That the market did not close on Monday, June 5, shows the new Securities and Futures Commission is working well. And trade between Guangdong and Hong Kong continued during the crisis, he also said.
Sir Piers lists the deals that have been completed since June and the 11 new banking licenses. And he says an announcement on a new airport will come this week. He will not say what the decision is, but he does not deny that there have already been many stories saying the Government will go ahead. But he cannot dismiss the real problem -the problem of confidence that is so much more real now than it was nine months ago. ''What you need to hold it together is the confidence,'' he said.
The so-called brain drain - the emigration of talented Chinese - is continuing. And it is not clear if the new British policy of guaranteeing ''essential'' people the right to move to England will help.
Andrew F. Economos, manager of the Scudder New Asia Fund, is not worried. ''Before Tiananmen Square, people were overly optimistic about the People's Republic of China,'' he said. ''Now they are overly bearish.''
But Mr. Dobson of Murray Johnstone and Mr. Warren of Rowe, Price, Fleming are not convinced. They have been cutting back their exposure in the stock market since Tiananmen Square and are now below the normal average in Asia.
Mr. Warren says many stock sales to foreigners now are by local Chinese, which he does not take as a good sign. And Mr. Dobson worries that even the best intentions, like the orderly transition to Chinese sovereignty, can go awry. ''What seems to be totally impossible and can't happen,'' he said, ''can happen through sheer pigheadedness.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (97%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: ROWE PRICE-FLEMING INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HONG KONG; CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); POLITICS (69%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



250 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: 3 Issues in This Week's Treasury Auctions

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of new issues this week includes the weekly auction of new three-month and six-month bills, which will be tomorrow because of the holiday today, and Wednesday's auction of new seven-year notes.
By late Friday, the outstanding three-month bill was bid at 7.59 percent, while the six-month bill was at 7.63 percent. In when-issued trading, the seven-year notes were offered at a price to yield 8.05 percent. 
Among the Government agencies expected to issue debt this week, the Student Loan Marketing Association plans to announce tomorrow the interest rate for $500 million in short-term floating-rate notes, due in 1990.
The following new fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
TUESDAY
 
Savannah Electric and Power Co., $30 million in first-mortgage bonds due in 2019, A-/A-1/A. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
Aztar Corp./Aztar Mortgage Funding Inc., $230 million in senior subordinated notes, due in 1999, with warrants for 10 percent of the company, NR/B-3/B, and $170 million in first-mortgage notes, due in 1996, NR/B-1/ BB-. Salomon Brothers Inc.
 
Bay View Capital Corp., 625,000 shares of $50 convertible preferred, NR/Ba-3/BB-. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
 
Blockbuster Entertainment Corp., Dallas, $250 million face amount ($77 million in proceeds) in liquid yield option notes, due in 2004, NR/Ba-3/B+. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
 
Continental Airlines, Houston, $150 million in senior notes, due in 1994, NR/B-2/B; $27.2 million in secured equipment trust certificates, due in 1999, NR/B-3/B; $28 million in secured equipment trust certificates, due in 1996, NR/B-3/ B; $37.5 million in secured equipment trust certificates, due in 1995, NR/B-3/B; $13.15 million in senior notes, due in 2006, NR/B-2/B, and $44.85 million in senior notes, due in 2001, NR/B-2/B. Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
 
Kirby Exploration Co., Houston, $50 million in convertible subordinated debentures, due in 2014, NR/Ba-3/ BBB-. Paine Webber Inc.
 
Loews Corp., $600 million face amount ($247 million in proceeds) of liquid yield option notes, NR/A-2/A+. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
 
Turner Broadcasting System, Atlanta, $650 million face amount ($200 million in proceeds) in liquid yield option notes, due in 2004, NR/B-2/B. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
 
Source: McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei Inc.
 
Ratings: MCM/Moody's/Standard & Poor's.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
 
Albany County, $67.1 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
Fairfax County, Va., $88 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
Maine Municipal Bond Bank, $58 million in revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
Nassau County, $62.2 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
 
California, $445 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
New York State Medical Care Facilities Finance Agency, $68 million in mental health service revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
TENTATIVE OFFERINGS THIS WEEK
 
Hawaii Housing Finance and Development Corp., $120 million in single-family mortgage revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
 
Nashville/Davidson County, Tenn., $80 million in water and sewer revenue bonds. Donaldson, Lufkin, Jenrette Inc.
 
Washington Health Care, $65 million in bonds for Group Health of Puget Sound. First Boston Corp.
 
Wisconsin Housing Finance, $60 million in bonds. Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: FNFG (NASDAQ) (67%); KEX (NYSE) (63%); L (NYSE) (62%); SLM (NASDAQ) (57%); UAL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (82%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (82%); SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (82%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (82%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (82%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (69%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (67%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (66%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (66%); NAICS483211 INLAND WATER FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (63%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (62%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (62%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (62%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA SUSSEX CORP (82%); GEORGIA POWER CO (69%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (67%); FIRST NIAGARA FINANCIAL GROUP INC (67%); BB LIQUIDATING INC (66%); KIRBY CORP (63%); LOEWS CORP (62%); SLM CORP (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (53%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (51%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS AUCTIONS (91%); DEBT NOTES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); STUDENT LOANS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); 



251 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Drops In Argentina

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Oct. 8

 BODY:
Argentina's inflation rate, which in July reached a record 196.6 percent, fell below 10 percent in September for the first time in seven months. It was the second consecutive monthly drop in the inflation rate. 
Official figures issued Friday showed the consumer price index rose in September by 9.4 percent, compared with a rise of 37.9 percent in August.
Through September, prices have risen this year by 3,826.4 percent.
The figure for September matches earlier predictions of single-digit inflation by President Carlos Saul Menem, who introduced a tough program to fight Argentina's economic crisis when he took office in early July. But some public officials had recently forecast a 7 percent rise.
Foreign exchange dealers said that by the close of trading Friday, the black-market rate for the United States dollar had risen to a 5 percent premium over the official rate for Argentina's currency, the austral.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES; INFLATION ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); US DOLLAR (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (88%); TRENDS (87%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); 

PERSON: CARLOS SAUL MENEM (57%); 



252 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Mexico's Baja Wines In Bid for U.S. Market

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VALLE DE GUADALUPE, Mexico

 BODY:
If the wines of California can become world-renowned and gain respect, then the wines of Baja California should be able to do the same. If Mexican beer can be made to appeal to the American palate, the same should be true of Mexican wine.
In the verdant fields of this tranquil valley, just 50 miles south of San Diego, a growing number of Mexican wine makers are hoping that such an analysis of the international market for alcoholic beverages will soon prove correct.
Spurred by increased competition here and by the remarkable success of beers like Corona and Dos Equis, they are modernizing rapidly and gradually turning an eye to the world's biggest consumer of exports - which to their good fortune lies virtually at their doorstep. 
 
The Two Top Producers
Leading the way are L. A. Cetto, a winery in Tijuana that accounts for more than 70 percent of all the wine consumed in Mexico, and the Mexican affiliate of Pedro Domecq S.A. Both companies produce millions of gallons of wine and brandy annually at modern plants here. But small boutique wineries have also begun to spring up, intent on duplicating the success achieved in the Napa Valley a few hundred miles to the north.
''Baja California is really turning into a premium wine district, producing some lovely, prime California wines,'' said Leon D. Adams, author of ''The Wines of America'' and a recent visitor here. ''It could have been so all along, but they just didn't have the competitive spirit.''
For years, in fact, Mexico's closed economy and high tariffs assured vineyards here healthy profits from a captive market. But the wrenching economic changes that have swept Mexico in recent years have shocked Mexican wine makers out of their complacency and forced them to look for new opportunities both at home and abroad.
 
New Competitive Climate
The economic crisis that began in 1982, bringing recession and triple-digit inflation, severely discouraged wine sales by putting prices beyond the reach of the average consumer. Then, Mexico's entry into the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT, in 1986 opened the domestic market to fine French, Italian and German wines, creating a new competitive climate.
The impact of those two situations has been felt at big vineyards like Bodegas de Santo Tomas, which has been producing wine in Baja California since 1888. From a peak production of about 350,000 cases a year at the height of the oil boom a decade ago, Santo Tomas's sales have fallen to about 100,000 cases a year, said officials at company headquarters in Ensenada.
''The lesson for large-scale producers of wine has been that if you do not constantly modernize, you die,'' said Luis Cetto Salazar, the 24-year-old grandson of the founder of L. A. Cetto and the company's heir apparent. ''The economic opening of the past year or so has really hit all of us quite hard.''
 
A Recent Start-Up
But the new environment has also attracted oenologists like Hans Backhoff, 42, a biochemical engineer with a doctorate in food sciences from Nottingham University in England. With an initial investment of $1 million, Mr. Backhoff and four partners this year will produce 10,000 cases of their Monte Xenic label, including both a chenin blanc and a cabernet sauvignon that they hope to place in the American market within a few years.
''Our project coincided with Mexico's joining GATT, which means we have a lot of competition from other countries,'' he said. ''That can be seen as something negative when you are just starting out, but it also means we have to have a good product, which we do. We're not ready to export yet, but that, too, will come.''
To experts, enterprises like Mr. Backhoff's and the nearby Bodegas San Antonio run by Octavio Jimenez, a former wine master at Santo Tomas who is the technical adviser, are a promising harbinger of the future. Helped by the chic image that Mexican food and beer have acquired in the United States, they say, Baja California wineries are likely to become a welcome new source of table wines for consumers conscious of both price and quality.
 
Resuming a Historical Role
''I visited Baja California last year, and I was impressed with the facilities, the knowledge of the state of the art and with the product,'' said Philip Hiaring, editor of Wines and Vines, a leading trade magazine. ''The grapes are thriving and the Guadalupe valley itself is one of the most beautiful vineyard valleys you can find anywhere in the world, so the Mexicans can travel in fast company.''
In expanding and modernizing production here, Mexican wine makers are merely resuming the historical role they once played. The first wine fermented in the New World was produced in Mexico in 1554, historians say, and vineyards have been tended in Baja California since 1697, initially by the same Jesuit and Dominican missionaries who later took their cuttings north to what was then Alta California.
''Mexico was the cradle of viniculture in the Americas, so it is entirely appropriate that we now see all of this happening,'' Mr. Adams said. ''The wines of Chile, which have found a strong market niche, as well as those of Argentina and Peru, all originated from Mexican cuttings.''
 
Exports to Europe and Japan
Production figures are closely guarded, but wineries here have begun exporting to distant markets like Japan, Eastern Europe and Britain, ''even without our really seeking it,'' said Hugo D'Acosta, wine master at Santo Tomas. But to penetrate the market that matters most - California and the American Southwest -wine makers here recognize they must first overcome a familiarity that borders on contempt.
''I am sure that we can achieve greater penetration of foreign markets,'' said Antonio Badan, a member of the Wine Brotherhood of Baja California, a local group dedicated to encouraging wine growing and consumption. ''But first we have to destroy the myth of 'Mexican what?' anytime you mention Mexican wine.''
In an effort to remind consumers of the strong wine-growing tradition here, L. A. Cetto red wines have been marketed in California under the slogan ''America's first wines are America's best wine values.'' Mr. Hiaring said such efforts must be accompanied by more advertising, more contact with liquor wholesalers and retailers, and more testing and research - a judgment with which Mexican wine makers heartily agree.
''We can't be exporting just for the sake of exporting,'' Mr. Cetto said. ''The failure of one line is the failure of all and damages the image of Mexican wine in general, so there must be a careful handling of this.''

GRAPHIC: graph of Mexico's wine and brandy production from '86 to '89 (Source: National Winemakers Assoc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES; BAJA CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: WINES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET WINERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY



253 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: The Russians Are Still Coming

BYLINE: By Richard Pipes; Richard Pipes is professor of history at Harvard University.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
We live in an age of image-building - an age in which it is increasingly difficult to distinguish appearance from reality. Soviet leaders have taken full advantage of this situation in conducting foreign policy. They say one thing, and do another. Since most people cannot determine where the truth lies, they believe noble intentions.
The sense of good feeling is pervasive: An influential essay by a State Department official, Francis Fukuyama, assures us that the liberal cause has triumphed globally and that the ''end of history'' is at hand. 
Since Mikhail Gorbachev came to power, the Soviet Union has been far less aggressive in its foreign policy pronouncements. Desperately needing foreign aid to shore up a collapsing economy, it has projected with all the propaganda means at its disposal the image of a country that requires peace and defense-budget cutbacks. Such professions and certain steps, largely symbolic, have had the desired effect of blurring the perception of the Soviet Union as an aggressive, hostile power. This has resulted in an increased flow of foreign loans (the external debt has doubled under Mr. Gorbachev) and a corresponding decline in the West's willingness to bear the burdens of defense.
How genuine is the change in Soviet foreign policy? Take defense expenditures. Moscow has finally released what it claims to be its true military budget. The 77 billion ruble figure announced earlier this year is about half of what U.S. experts believe to be actual defense appropriations.
Washington estimates that military outlays under Mr. Gorbachev continue to grow at the rate of 3 percent a year in constant rubles. Although there have been indications of a slowdown in certain categories of weapons, the modernization of the four military services proceeds under perestroika at the same tempo as in the ''era of stagnation.''
In the Middle East, the Kremlin has often stressed the desire to replace confrontation with negotiations. Although rumors abound of worsening relations with Syria, Moscow's principal ally and a major aggressor, Syria has received MIG-29 fighters and supersonic Sukhoi 24 bombers. (Moscow has also sold Sukhois to Libya).
Taking advantage of Syria's massive debt owed to the Soviet Union, estimated at more than $15 billion, the Kremlin has secured a major naval facility at Tartus. This port, fully controlled by Soviet personnel, will service surface ships and submarines, obviating the necessity of having them go for maintenance and repairs to the Black Sea and the distant Kola Peninsula. The U.S. Navy has no comparable Mediterranean facility.
In the Far East, the Soviet buildup of client states continues. North Korea has been provided with MIG-23's and is reported in line for the more advanced MIG-29's. Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia have been given $2 billion in aid since 1987. Moscow has doubled its economic assistance to Vietnam, and has reportedly doubled military aid to Cambodia over 1988 levels. Vietnam has allowed Moscow to improve its new Pacific naval base at Cam Ranh Bay, originally constructed by the U.S.
Although Moscow has withdrawn combat troops from Afghanistan, it has increased economic and military assistance to the quisling Government in Kabul. Nothing suggests that the Soviet Union intends to relax its hold on that country.
In Nicaragua, the Sandinistas were saved from near-disaster by their decision to allow democratic elections. They have often let it be known, however, that they will not surrender power, come what may. (The only certainty is that the contras are doomed.) In Nicaragua, despite Mr. Gorbachev's assurances that no Soviet aid would be forthcoming, Soviet bloc and Cuban military assistance is reportedly being generously supplied.
And in Angola, Jonas Savimbi is in retreat and South Africa is pulling out, but Soviet aid continues to flow in.
There are at least two reasonable explanations for the discrepancy between Soviet professions and performance. One is that Moscow regards the present period as a breathing spell, to restore its flagging economy and popular morale, before resuming a worldwide offensive. The other is that the leadership is so beholden to its generals, especially in view of growing internal unrest, that it cannot afford to alienate them with cutbacks in appropriations and foreign commitments.
Whichever explanation is correct, world stability and peace are nowhere as close as much of world opinion would like to believe. The Kremlin's professions of peaceful intent, and certain steps carefully calculated to mollify the West, do not alter the fact that Soviet military activities at home and abroad under Mr. Gorbachev have proceeded pretty much as they did under Leonid I. Brezhnev.
The ''new thinking'' in international relations has shown more style than substance. In fact, the soft-line policy has enabled Moscow to spread its influence and power abroad more effectively that when it had pursued an overtly hard line.
One paradoxical effect of the Gorbachev peace offensive has been to promote Soviet interests in regional conflicts.
Even as the Soviet Union is withdrawing, its clients in Cambodia, Angola, Nicaragua and Afghanistan have been growing stronger at the expense of U.S. allies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (76%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (76%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (88%); LIBERALISM (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); NAVIES (73%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); FOREIGN LENDING (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%); MARINE VESSELS (64%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; PIPES, RICHARD (PROF) MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (71%); 



254 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Foundation Seeks Self-Sufficiency for Puerto Rico

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R.

 BODY:
With help from foundations and United States corporations, a new style of philanthropy is taking root here and scattering seeds through the Caribbean.
The Puerto Rico Community Foundation, conceived by the Ford and Rockefeller foundations and the Carnegie Corporation as an experiment six years ago, emphasizes projects to move the island toward greater economic self-sufficiency. It aids small businesses and tries to generate jobs in poor mountain towns so they are not deserted by young people seeking a better life in the city. The foundation also tries to deter young people from using drugs, dropping out of school or having unwanted pregnancies. 
''We are the community foundation that speaks in Spanish,'' said Dr. Ethel Rios de Betancourt, president of the foundation, which was set up to draw support from a variety of donors, including local business concerns.
Decisions about spending are made by a board whose members represent a cross section of society, from the board chairman, Manuel H. Dubon, a real estate developer, to representatives of the community like Hilcia Montanez, who directs an alternative school for dropouts and is a voice for the 40 percent of the island's poor people who live in public housing.
 
A Tradition of Giving
''At first I was frightened about speaking up - what do I know about investments?'' Ms. Montanez said. ''But that soon passed.''
Giving to charity is a tradition in Puerto Rico, where even the poorest families among the United States commonwealth's 3.2 million people will scrape together a contribution for needy neighbors, the church or the victims of a calamity. But the concept of raising charitable dollars to start a business, organize a housing cooperative or provide medical care was unknown until the Ford Foundation offered a $2 million grant.
Ford's lead was followed by other offers, including ones from the Rockefeller, Carnegie, MacArthur, Kellogg and Robert Wood Johnson foundations. The Cleveland Foundation provided a staff for administrative help in the Puerto Rican group's critical early months.
Even before Hurricane Hugo wreaked havoc on the island's economy, the problems that the foundation was trying to address were daunting. Although a number of new pharmaceutical and electronic plants have improved economic conditions on the island in the last decade, Puerto Rico's per capita income, less than $5,000, still ranks below that of Mississippi, the poorest state in the Union.
 
Unemployment Is High
Puerto Rico's unemployment rate is officially reported at 15 percent, three times higher than the nation's as a whole. But unemployment on the island is believed to be higher than the official figure. Sixty percent of Puerto Rico's population qualifies for food stamps, a substantial part of the $6 billion in aid that the Federal Government provided last year.
The foundation's resources are too modest for a major role in coping with the devastation of Hurricane Hugo but the philanthropy shaped its own response: It focused on helping to rescue projects it began, including agricultural greenhouses.
Many of the 167 projects supported by the foundation, which now spends $1 million a year, are aimed at making the island less dependent on food imports. Puerto Rico imports about 85 percent of its food. This included about 300,000 pounds of frozen rabbit from China annually, so the foundation made a grant to teach farmers in the central mountain region how to raise rabbits. The farmers now hope to produce at least 100,000 pounds of rabbit meat a year.
''We use the meat and the skins, and the remaining animal parts are purchased by phramaceutical firms for research and by pet food manufacturers,'' Dr. Betancourt said. ''We use everything but the proverbial squeal.''
 
A Small-Business Incubator
Elsewhere, the foundation supports efforts to reclaim neglected farms to start an organic farming industry.
In a converted schoolhouse in the poor mountain town at Cubuy, Dr. Antonia Pantoja directs ''Producir,'' a small-business incubator that has already established a local bakery, a marmalade factory and clothing and beauty shops. Organizers say this may help reverse the trend in which young people leave their rural homes to seek jobs in big cities.
Dr. Pantoja, a retired professor from the University of California who has been a founder of several Puerto Rican civic organizations in New York City, preaches a sermon of self-help. ''We use our center to celebrate our community, our country and our culture and to make people feel good, to get them into entrepreneurship and stop leaning on the government check coming in,'' he said.
 
Model for Latin America
Gov. Rafael Hernandez Colon recently praised the foundation as a pioneering venture deserving the support of local enterprises, saying, ''I also trust it will succeed in its desire to serve as a model philanthropic institution for the rest of Latin America.''
There are signs that wish will be fulfilled. Fifteen countries have already sent officials here to attend foundation meetings, including Margarita Penon de Arias, whose husband is President of Costa Rica. She is president of the Arias Foundation, which was started with money from her husband's 1987 Nobel Peace Prize.
''We opened our books, our financial records,'' said Dr. de Betancourt, a classical scholar and educator who has been with the foundation from its outset. ''We showed them everything to be helpful, just as we were helped at the beginning by the Ford and Cleveland foundations.''
The Ford Foundation is prepared to help start similar philanthropies in Latin America and the Caribbean, said Susan V. Berresford, Ford's vice president, who visited here last month.
Puerto Rico's experience is expected to have influence elsewhere in Latin American, said Hector Ledesma, vice chairman of the board of Banco Popular of Puerto Rico, who is a former chairman of the foundation. ''All Latins like to see something running before they buy it, and they will say, 'If you can do it in Puerto Rico, so can we.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CWE (ASX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (58%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE WAVE ENERGY LTD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD FOUNDATION; ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION; CARNEGIE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FOUNDATIONS (92%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (75%); TRENDS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (70%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (66%); FOOD STAMPS (50%); 

PERSON: TELTSCH, KATHLEEN



255 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: An Old Land Deal Nettles the West

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOAB, Utah

 BODY:
Nearly a century after the West was won and tamed, the Western states have come to regret a deal in which they accepted millions of acres of land from Washington in tiny plots like islands in an ocean of Federal territory.
Now Utah, saying these scattered lands are so difficult to manage that it cannot get much money for their intended purpose of supporting schools, has brought the issue to a boil by proposing to sell 82,000 acres of land the state owns inside four national parks.
And to dramatize its grievances, the state has made the provocative suggestion that the tracts could be developed for curio shops, convenience stores, public showers and resort cabins.
 
Hope for Congressional Solution
Utah officials say they do not really plan to desecrate national parks, but acted out of frustration to call attention to a problem that has festered for decades. The Utah Board of State Lands and Forestry had set Oct. 1 as a deadline for starting the sale, but it recently postponed action at the urging of Gov. Norman H. Bangerter, saying there was hope for a Congressional solution. 
What Utah really wants is to exchange much of its holdings for valuable property in the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area to build commercial boat marinas on Lake Powell and, beyond that, to forge a fundamental redefinition of who controls public land in the West.
The battle, in a sense, is over how to unscramble an egg. It reflects a deep resentment in the West against Federal control of land use and is a source of constant bickering among state and Federal officials, environmentalists, ranchers, miners and timber and tourism interests.
As Western territories joined the Union, the Federal Government allotted each new state millions of acres scattered about evenly in one-square-mile sections like a vast checkerboard, to be leased for grazing, mining and other purposes to generate revenue for schools. In return, the new states agreed to give up their claims to vast tracts within their borders.
 
From Rain Forests to Deserts
While much has been sold or traded over the years, millions of acres of checkerboard land remain, from the rain forests of Washington state to the deserts of New Mexico. The rest is in Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Wyoming.
Most tracts are remote and inaccessible, all the more so because they are now embedded in national forests and wilderness areas, in national parks, monuments and recreation areas run by the National Park Service, in military bases, in Indian reservations and, mainly, in vast grazing lands run by the Federal Bureau of Land Management.
The Federal Government still owns 553,000 square miles, or 47 percent, of the 11 states west of the Rockies, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, which lack checkerboard land. The Government owns 64 percent of Utah.
The issue has sharply focused a debate between development and conservation interests over how best to use the vast public lands that still cover the West.
On one side are local officials and residents, particularly in Utah, where the resentment of Federal land control is most deeply rooted. They want to bargain the state holdings for control of desirable Federal lands to promote tourism and perk up depressed rural economies.
''Colonialism has been virtually eliminated except in the Western states,'' said Calvin Black, a former uranium miner and businessman from Blanding, who is the driving force behind the confrontation as a member of the Utah lands board. The state's chief concern, he said, is not to preserve remote Utah for a few backpackers, but to raise the most money possible for its schoolchildren.
Conservationists see the checkerboards as threats to wilderness and parks, ''little bombs buried in protected areas,'' in the words of Darrell Knuffke, the Central Rockies regional director for the Wilderness Society.
The beauty and starkness of Utah unfolds as Brant Calkin flies his one-engine Cessna 182 over the arid Colorado Plateau in southern Utah, over places with evocative names like Hells Backbone and Coyote Gulch. It is a surrealistic land of soaring castles and pinnacles sculptured from striated red sandstone, of massive buttes and mesas riven by deep, lush canyons.
To Mr. Calkin, executive director of the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, the state has allowed its land to be abused, overmined, overgrazed and neglected. ''They don't even know what's happening on most of these tracts,'' he said. ''They say they want to maximize revenues, but it's a sham.''
The states have been trying for years to devise means to resolve conflicts arising from checkerboard patterns.
 
Exchanges in New Mexico
In New Mexico, which has about 6.3 million acres of checkboard land scattered over 5,000 tracts, it took 40 years to negotiate the exchange of 340,000 state acres in the White Sands Missile Range. The state is now trying to address the problem of what to do with 78,000 acres in the Navajo Reservation.
Arizona has exchanged about 2.5 million acres with the Bureau of Land Management over the last five years, receiving land near fast-growing cities and giving up its holdings in the environmentally sensitive San Pedro River area in southeastern Arizona.
Nearly everybody involved agrees that the solution is to give the states, in exchanges with the Federal Government, equal land in larger, contiguous blocks. But these exchanges have been bedeviled by complex issues of determining equal valuation, of mineral rights, archeological and wildlife concerns, state sovereignty and animosities between Federal agencies. $12.5 Million in Earnings In 1896, when Utah was admitted to the Union, it received one of every nine sections of land in exchange for giving up its land claims. What remains are 3.5 million acres, divided into more than 5,000 isolated sections. The state says it earned only $12.5 million for its chronically underfinanced public schools last year from leases, mineral royalties and other sources of revenue on this land.
The Congressional enabling act that made Utah a state requires it to use that land only for schools, said Patrick D. Spurgin, director of state lands and forestry. ''Something other than leaving the land to look nice has to be done,'' he said, ''because that generates no dollars.''
An attempt by the previous Governor, Scott M. Matheson, a Democrat, to solve the problem by a comprehensive exchange bogged down over which side was getting the better of the deal. His plan died when he left office in 1985.
Two years later his Republican successor, Governor Bangerter, reached an agreement with the Secretary of the Interior, Donald P. Hodel, to trade state holdings within national parks for Federal land outside.
That plan also broke down, and Mr. Bangerter proposed trading for 96,000 acres in the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, a part of the national park system, to build five boat marinas on Lake Powell, which straddles the Utah-Arizona border, so Utah could compete better with Arizona for tourist dollars now spent on the more accessible Arizona side.
The National Park Service rejected the plan out of hand. Willis Kriz, the agency's chief of land resources in Washington, said the lake is already too heavily used by boaters, who leave trash and human waste in its dramatic canyons. ''To convey to the state for additional development would compound problems,'' he said.
Frustrated, the state land board in July proposed the sale of its 82,000 acres within four national park domains, Arches National Park, Capitol Reef National Park, Dinosaur National Monument and Glen Canyon, as well as 35,000 acres in the Navajo and Goshute Indian reservations.
This was ''blackmail'' to get Congress to approve the Lake Powell marinas, said Terri Martin, regional representative of the National Parks and Conservation Association, a group that tries to protect national parks.
The state still prefers the Lake Powell alternative, seeing a potential boom in tourism as a way to help the depressed counties in southern Utah. Even though 97 percent of Lake Powell lies within Utah, 2.8 million of the 3.5 million visitors to the area enter through Page, Ariz.
 
Environmentalists' Solution
''It is not the responsibility of Utah's schoolchildren to protect the national parks,'' said Mr. Black, the land board member.
Environmentalists like Mr. Calkin maintain that the better solution is to trade for Federal land outside the parks that are near existing towns and roads, so that tourist accommodations could be built away from scenic areas.
But Karl Kappe, a policy analyst at the State Division of Lands and Forestry in Salt Lake City, says such trades in the past have been thwarted by the Bureau of Land Management because of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, which requires the Government to preserve its land holdings in the West and receive equal value for any land traded away.
Representative Wayne Owens, a Democrat from Salt Lake City, recently visited Moab, whose economy has turned from mining to tourism, and said he was working on a compromise that would give the state Federal land just outside the Glen Canyon Recreation Area for motel and restaurant development while maintaining the integrity of Glen Canyon. He said he expected the support of the Governor and the remainder of the state's Congressional delegation, all of them Republicans.
After a meeting in Washington with Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr. on Sept. 27, Governor Bangerter said the Secretary was amenable to the plan.
But even if such an agreement is reached, millions of acres of checkerboard land problems would remain unresolved in Utah and the other Western states. Some believe that Congress will ultimately be forced to rewrite the laws that granted statehood to the Western territories and come to grips with whether the Federal Government should encourage the exploitation or preservation of the tracts it still holds.

GRAPHIC: Photo of an aerial view of Jacob Hamilton Arch, checkerboard land in the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area (NYT/Nancy Rhodes); map of Utah showing locations of checkerboard lands (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UTAH

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); RETAILERS (74%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); WILDERNESS (70%); RAIN FORESTS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); MARINAS (51%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT



256 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: TENTATIVE ACCORD ON INDIAN FISHING

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: RHINELANDER, Wis., Oct. 9

 BODY:
A band of Chippewa Indians has agreed to curtail its spearfishing and other treaty rights in exchange for a multimillion-dollar aid package.
The tentative agreement was reached late last month after months of negotiations by the state with leaders of the Lac du Flambeau Chippewas, whose spearfishing has led to widespread protests by opponents of Chippewa treaty rights.
If approved by tribal members and the Wisconsin Legislature, the agreement would be the first reached between the state and its six Chippewa bands. The Mole Lake group had reached a tentative agreement with the state, but tribal members rejected that 10-year $10 million package in January. 
Treaty rights of the Chippewas to hunt and fish on non-reservation lands across much of northern Wisconsin have been upheld in a series of Federal court rulings since 1983.
 
Trust Fund Is Included
Donald Hanaway, the State Attorney General, said the tentative agreement with the Lac du Flambeau band would span 10 years and include a trust fund. The Lac du Flambeau band, the most active of the Chippewas in spearfishing, would continue ceremonial spearfishing but ''agreed to forbear and forgo the exercise of their treaty rights,'' he said.
Both sides declined to disclose details of the proposed agreement.
Leaders of the Lac du Flambeau band had been seeking a 10-year agreement worth $42 million, including payments of about $1,400 to each member of the Indian group. The state recently added other provisions, reportedly worth up to $10 million.
Mr. Hanaway said he hoped to have a final document ready for the Legislature by mid-October.
Gov. Tommy G. Thompson, a Republican, said he supported the tentative accord, but some legislators expressed caution.
 
'An Encouraging Sign'
David Prosser, a Republican who is minority leader of the State Assembly, called the agreement ''an encouraging sign.'' But another Republican, State Senator Joseph Leean, said voters did not believe that ''we ought to have to ante up millions of dollars when the problem was created by Federal treaties.''
Michael Allen, the Chippewa tribal chairman, said the tribal council approved the package. Tribe members' approval is also needed.
James Klauser, who as state administration secretary is Governor Thompson's chief adviser, said the fund would be administered by trustees and used for education, law enforcement, health and economic development programs.
The accord could serve as a model for the state's five other Chippewa bands, said James Jannetta, the Lac du Flambeau group's tribal attorney. ''Hopefully, other bands will look at this as a historic step,'' he said.
 
Protests and Court Rulings
Spearfishing by the Chippewas prompted demonstrations at some northern lakes by hundreds of people in recent years.
Opposition to spearfishing grew even more heated this year after the state announced it would reduce the number of walleye pike that sport anglers were allowed to catch. The announcement came after a Federal court ruling that allowed Chippewas to spear as many walleye pike that biologists determined could be taken without hurting the fish population.
Last spring's spearfishing season was marked by incidents of name-calling and stone-throwing at some lakes and resulted in about 200 arrests.
Federal court rulings since 1983 have upheld provisions of 19th-century treaties that allow the Chippewas to fish, hunt, trap and harvest wild grain on non-reservation lands across most of northern Wisconsin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WISCONSIN

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; CHIPPEWA INDIANS TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (88%); FISHES (88%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LAKES (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SPORT FISHING (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: TOMMY THOMPSON (56%); 



257 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: St. Croix Has No History of Racial Unrest

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Last Friday should have been a time of unrestrained joy for me. After five harrowing days and sleepless nights, I had finally received word that my family in St. Croix in the Virgin Islands - including my infant daughter - was alive and well following the destruction wrought by Hurricane Hugo.
My happiness, however, was tempered by outrage caused by your report that United States Army troops landing on St. Croix found looting and devastation (news story, Sept. 22). You may have accurately portrayed the desperate situation in the wake of the storm, but I am deeply offended by the comment that St. Croix ''has a history of racial tensions.'' 
As a black woman who lived in St. Croix for 15 years until coming to the mainland United States in 1979, I can emphatically say that I never witnessed any such racial unrest.
Indeed, the island's one widely reported incident - the Fountain Valley killings of 1979 - was first labeled as a racial attack, but was later reported to have involved drugs. I hardly believe that this one incident justifies branding St. Croix as a racial hotbed.
As a frequent visitor to the island, I have seen no increase in racial tension on St. Croix in the decade since I left. The effects of your statement may be significant and far ranging. In the short term, people in the mainland United States might be wary of making vital aid donations to St. Croix if they are led to believe that the island is some kind of racial boiling pot.
Potentially more harmful is the impact on St. Croix tourism, an industry on which 80 percent of the island's economy is based. Unfounded claims may very well dissuade people from visiting St. Croix, thereby having an adverse effect on the island's economy - at a time when it is in its greatest need.
 
SHERYL MOSELY
East Orange, N.J., Sept. 25, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOUNTAIN VALLEY INSTRUMENTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIRGIN ISLANDS (US); ST CROIX (US VIRGIN ISLANDS)

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE HUGO; RACIAL RELATIONS TROPICAL STORMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); ARMIES (72%); WEATHER (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (57%); ARMED FORCES (56%); 

PERSON: MOSELY, SHERYL



258 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
'Covert' Means Fiasco

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

 BODY:
Once again, in misguided zeal to rearrange another nation's affairs, the U.S. Government has demonstrated all that's wrong with ''covert operations,'' and why they have no useful place in the policies of a democratic nation.
The latest fiasco in Panama - following earlier pratfall efforts to oust the odious dictator Manuel Antonio Noriega - continues a disastrous, dishonorable, bipartisan tradition: Iran-contra and the Bay of Pigs, to name the most notorious.
Even when covert operations succeed in the short run (in Iran and Guatemala in the 50's, for example) they damage U.S. interests (not to mention the victim nations) in the long term. Usually they backfire immediately - for instance, the C.I.A.'s harebrained mining of Nicaraguan harbors. 
Bush Administration officials, trying to explain the latest foul-up, claim to have been handicapped by lack of information. What did they expect? Little is ever clear in war and crisis, particularly at long range; and rumors, disinformation, surmise, silence and either wishful or fearful thinking are the background to any supposedly secret, outlaw operation.
The attempted Panama coup posed another problem typical of any such situation. No one in Washington could be sure whether the plotters would form a government preferable to General Noriega's criminal regime, and Mr. Bush resorted to the laughable demand that the coup leaders declare themselves democratic. Such uncertainty of consequence hangs over any covert operation.
Whether they choose themselves, as in the Panama failure, or the U.S. picks its own man, as in Guatemala, the nature of a successor regime is problematic. Nor can it be certain what might happen during the operation itself; Mr. Bush and his aides never learned for sure whether General Noriega's opponents would remand him to the U.S. for trial on drug-running charges.
For a quarter-century, former Kennedy Administration officials have insisted that they opposed the murder of Ngo Dinh Diem during a coup they authorized in South Vietnam in 1963; Diem was assassinated anyway. When the C.I.A. tried to direct a military takeover to prevent the election of Salvador Allende Gossens in Chile during the Nixon Administration, the operation succeeded only in causing the murder of Gen. Rene Schneider, a constitutionalist partial to the U.S.
These and other ''covert'' operations quickly became public, contributing heavily to the world's view of the U.S. as a ''great power'' little more concerned than the Soviet Union to respect the sovereignty of other nations. In Latin America, the ancient list of gringo interventions -even so inept as last week's in Panama - deeply prejudices Latin attitudes toward norteamericanos.
Everywhere, the inevitable disclosure of U.S. efforts to overthrow governments - even the hateful Noriega regime - makes a mockery of American pretensions to world moral primacy and to American rhetoric about the self-determination of peoples and the rule of law. But it's not possible -repeat, not possible - in a democratic society with a free press to keep for long such ''secrets'' as the C.I.A.'s funding of the contras in Nicaragua.
Worse, perhaps, than any of these other characteristics of covert operations is the necessity for the U.S. Government, from the President on down, to lie about them. Nothing so damages government credibility and public trust as the exposed lie of a formerly trusted leader - for example, President Eisenhower's cover-up of his knowledge of U-2 flights over the Soviet Union.
For his part, Mr. Bush emphatically assured the public in an effective TV ''sound bite'' that rumors of an ''American operation'' in Panama were ''not true.'' Since Panamanian officers did hatch their own scheme, the President may have achieved some shred of ''deniability'' with this formulation. But he and other officials purposely left two clear but false impressions - that the coup not only was not Washington's idea but that in Panama the U.S. had stayed scrupulously clear of the action.
In fact, the coup attempt was inspired by George Bush's repeated invitations to the Panamanian military to seize power. Without these assurances of U.S. sympathy and the implication of U.S. support, the attempt hardly would have been made. U.S. troops, moreover, blocked two roads to aid the plotters, and U.S. officials negotiated with them for custody of General Noriega.
If both covert action and the open invasion of Panama are to be ruled out, some may ask, what's to be done about the dictator? Leave him to his people, I say, to his neighbors, to economic and political isolation; if all else fails, leave him to Heaven.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PANAMA (94%); GUATEMALA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); CHILE (79%); VIET NAM (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS COUPS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN) GEORGE WALKER BUSH (69%); 



259 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: 2 Fund-Raising Groups Form to Aid Hispanic Organizations

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH

 BODY:
For the first time in the New York region, hundreds of Hispanic social service or cultural groups that have competed for dollars, often with scant success, will have two new fund-raising organizations to help them.
In New York City, the Hispanic Federation of New York City will solicit the city's two million Hispanic residents to help children and the unemployed, sick, elderly and homeless. The Federation will be linked to the United Way of New York City, temporarily housed at its Manhattan office and given financial help as it begins fund raising.
In the region, the Latino Fund of Tristate will seek contributions in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for the estimated three million Hispanic residents in these states. The fund will try to stimulate economic development and strengthen cultural institutions. 
Charity in New York is influenced and administered by groups like Catholic Charities and the United Jewish Appeal/Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, said Hector Gesualdo, a vice president of the United Way of New York City. ''Now Hispanics also will have a federation,'' he said.
 
'I See Unity Developing'
Details of how the two groups will work are undecided. It will be months before the impact of the organizations can be measured, but the potential is exciting, said Glenn S. Clarke, president of the Avon Products Foundation, who arranged a recent luncheon meeting of officials of both groups.
''I see unity developing among the millions of Puerto Ricans, Cubans, Dominicans and other Central and South Americans who have done good things individually and in small groups but can do much more now speaking as Hispanics.''
The federation and the Latino Fund will encourage Hispanic people to develop their own groups, said Luis A. Miranda Jr., Mayor Edward I. Koch's special adviser on Hispanic affairs.
''It is clear both organizations are needed to raise public awareness about the situation of Hispanics.'' he said. ''Puerto Ricans, the largest group among the Hispanics, are the city's poorest minority. Other Hispanic groups that came in the 70's and 80's are only now developing their own human service agencies as Federal funds are drying up.''
 
Independent Collaborators
The groups will be independent, but will collaborate, under an agreement reached after months of uncertainty.
''I firmly believe both organizations are moving in stride toward meeting the needs of the Hispanic community,'' said Fernando A. Fleites, one of the federation's organizers.
''We have come together and joined forces,'' said Luis Alvarez, chairman of the Latino Fund. ''Heaven knows there is enough work for everyone.''
According to the Latino Fund, Hispanic people are 25 percent of the city's population and about 17 percent of the tri-state region's. ''There is no precise data on philanthropic contributions reaching Hispanic organizations,'' said Miguel A. Garcia, the fund's president, ''but our preliminary analysis indicates Hispanic-administered organizations get less than 4 percent.''
 
Toward Greater Self-Sufficiency
He cited a 1987 study by the National Puerto Rican Coalition showing less than 3 percent of United Way money went to Hispanic-run groups.
United Way officials say the data does not take into account aid to groups that are not administered by Hispanic people but provide services to them.
The foundation aims to move Hispanic organizations toward greater self-sufficiency, but it will not be easy, said Horace Morris, executive vice president of the United Way of New York City.
''The Hispanics face an uphill struggle, more so than blacks who learned to organize in the civil rights movement and built a structure of organizations such as the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the Urban League, and also had the support of a strong church and fraternal associations.'' he said.
''New York City is no longer white, Protestant and middle-class. Half our residents are from minorities and Hispanics are the second-fastest growing group, after Asians. Corporations have a vested interest in the community; they get their labor force from it. The companies know this, the banks know this. If Hispanics do poorly, everybody does poorly.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AVON PRODUCTS INC (54%); UNITED JEWISH APPEAL (56%); UNITED JEWISH APPEAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HISPANIC FEDERATION OF NEW YORK CITY; LATINO FUND OF TRI-STATE

SUBJECT: SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) FUNDRAISING (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); CITIES (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); RELIGION (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (53%); 

PERSON: TELTSCH, KATHLEEN



260 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Coptic Pope's Visit Cheers Faithful

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

 BODY:
When they say ''Pope'' at the Roman Catholic school where Michael Muraghy is in the fifth grade, they of course mean Pope John Paul II. But the other day, Michael, 10 years old, and hundreds of other Coptic Orthodox Christians had a chance to meet their own Pope - Shenouda III - at a Brooklyn Church.
''John Paul II is okay,'' Michael declared after being blessed by Pope Shenouda III, ''but my Pope's better.''
Pope Shenouda, 66, was in the New York area to visit the largest Coptic Orthodox community outside of Egypt, where he lives and oversees the worldwide church of 20 million members. The New York stop was part of an 11-week trip the Pope is taking through the United States and Canada, during which he hopes to visit each one of the 40 Coptic Orthodox Churches in North America. 
In recent years, thousands of Copts have emigrated to the United States, Canada and Australia seeking economic opportunity and religious freedom. Many say that it is difficult to live as Christians in Egypt's Muslim society.
 
Hopes for a Coptic School
The growth in the United States has been rapid. In 1970 there were only two Coptic Orthodox Churches in the United States, one in Jersey City and the other in Los Angeles; today there are 40 with some 200,000 members. Hopes of building a Coptic school have yet to be realized, however, and many Coptic children, such as Michael Muraghy, attend Catholic schools.
In an interview between visits to local churches, Pope Shenouda said that many theological issues that separated the Coptic church from Roman Catholicism have been resolved.
Pope Shenouda, who speaks English, Arabic, Coptic and French, is a pioneer in trying to bring the Coptic church closer to Roman Catholicism. In 1973, he and Pope Paul VI signed a common declaration that said that the two Christian faiths were essentially one, while acknowledging that historical differences remained on dogma and ritual. The declaration set in motion theological dialogue aimed at resolving those differences.
Pope Shenouda said he had no plans to meet with Pope John Paul II, but hinted that it might happen even without plans. ''These things always come in a natural way,'' he said.
 
Dispute Over Divinity
Just as the Roman Pope traces his lineage to the Apostle Peter, the Coptic Pope is the heir to the church established in First Century Alexandria by the Evangelist Mark, the author of the Second Gospel. His official title is Pope Shenouda III, the 117th Pope of Alexandria and Patriarch to the See of Saint Mark.
The Coptic church was among the so-called Oriental churches that split with Rome at the Council of Chalcedon of 451 in a dispute over the definition of the divine and human natures of Christ.
During his two weeks in New York, Pope Shenouda met with bishops of the Armenian, Syrian, Greek and Russian Orthodox churches as well as with officials of the Roman Catholic church. Because of a scheduling problem, he was unable to meet with John Cardinal O'Connor, the head of the New York Archdiocese, but met instead with his representatives.
Pope Shenouda's American tour is being coordinated by the Rev. Gabriel Abdelsayed, rector of St. Mark Coptic Orthodox Church in Jersey City. Father Abdelsayed said that the Pope, who left New York on Sept. 22, expects to visit every Coptic church as he continues with his travels to more than a dozen cities, including Seattle, Philadelphia, Boston, Atlanta, St. Louis and Dallas. In mid-November, Pope Shenouda will leave the United States for a similar pastoral visit in Australia before returning to Egypt for Christmas.
 
Businesses Were Closed
In Brooklyn, Pope Shenouda was greeted with great excitement at the Coptic Orthodox Church of St. George at 11th Avenue and 67th Street in an area that is between the neighborhoods of Bay Ridge and Bensonhurst. The visit was on a Wednesday morning and many closed their businesses to be there to participate. Parents took their children out of school.
''There is a happiness today, like a Christmas day and an Easter day,'' said Michael Mankaryous, an Egyptian native, who closed his Brooklyn business, Cleopatra Travel, to be at the church to greet the Pope.
Hundreds of people packed the church and its balcony. As is the Coptic custom, men sat on one side of the church and women and children on the other, a sign of the Muslim influence on the Egyptian Christian faith.
During the three-and-a-half-hour mass - held in Coptic, Arabic and English - dozens of men and boys were consecrated deacons for various religious roles in the church, including singer, reader, and assistant for the mass. Each new deacon wore a white robe and a sash embroidered with Coptic crosses in red and gold.
 
Handfuls of Holy Water
For communion, the faithful were given pieces of a consecrated round bread that, in accordance with tradition, was baked with the imprint of a great cross. The bread, doughy in consistency and measuring a foot in diameter, had been baked early the same morning by a church member.
At one point, the Pope, his dark eyes beaming, walked down the aisle joyfully throwing handfuls of holy water from a silver decanter into the crowd. The ebullient faithful leaned foward with hands outstreched to be sprinkled and blessed.
At the end of the mass, Pope Shenouda sat in a chair at the altar and distributed silver Coptic crosses to each churchgoer, as a souvenir of his visit. The Coptic cross is made up of two bold lines of equal length that intersect at the middle at right angles. At each angle are three points, representing the Trinity of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. All together, the cross has 12 points symbolizing the Apostles whose mission it was to spread the Gospel message throughout the world. As Pope Shenouda handed each person their own Coptic cross, he said in Arabic ''Rabbina Yibaarkak,'' which means ''May Our Lord Bless You.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Pope Shenouda III with clergy and parishoners of the Coptic Orthodox Church (NYT/Ruby Washington)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EGYPT (92%); CANADA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COPTIC CHURCHES RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (76%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: SHENOUDA III (POPE); GOLDMAN, ARI L POPE JOHN PAUL II (96%); 



261 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 5, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: For Top U.S. Science Students, a Soviet Magazine

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE

 BODY:
A SOVIET magazine that helped America's student team win top honors in this year's international Physics Olympiad will soon be distributed to top high school science students throughout the United States.
The Soviet magazine, Kvant (for Quantum, as it will be called in this country), is intended to fill a long-standing gap in American science education. Timothy M. Weber, managing editor of Kvant's American translation, said the United States has never had a counterpart, so ''our organizers turned to the Soviet Union to get us started.'' 
The Physics Olympiad, a grueling series of competitive examinations, was held in Warsaw in July. For the first time in the four years the United States has entered the competition, the Americans won a gold medal (awarded to Steven Gubser of Englewood, Colo.) and scored highest overall in a field of 30 nations.
The first issue of Quantum will be distributed this autumn to 100,000 American high school students taking part in physics or mathematics programs for the gifted. The first two issues will be free, but if the magazine proves successful, students will thereafter pay $9.95 for four issues. Eventually, the plan is to bring it out nine times a year. At first, all the articles will be translations from the Soviet magazine; Mr. Weber said that eventually American scientists would contribute to Quantum and their articles would be made available to Kvant.
Money to start Quantum was provided by the National Science Foundation, but eventually the magazine will have to support itself. Unlike its Soviet progenitor, Quantum carries some advertising. Articles by the Soviet contributors challenge students by posing important problems in mathematics and physics in terms of everyday experience rather than abstract theory. In the first issue, for example, subtle ideas in solid geometry are presented in terms of the folds required to make a paper bird, and the student is advised to look for relationships rather than work out formal mathematical proofs.
The organizers of the Soviet-American Quantum collaboration were Dr. Sheldon Glashow of Harvard University, who shared the 1979 Nobel Prize in Physics; Dr. Edward D. Lozansky, a physicist and former Soviet dissident who emigrated to the United States in 1977, and Dr. William Aldridge, executive director of the National Science Teachers Association.
 
'Don't Stand Under the Bulb!'
''This collaboration would not have been possible in the days before Gorbachev,'' Dr. Lozansky said. ''We are also working on Soviet-American student exchanges and on an American university we hope to found in Moscow. There has been a vast change in climate. Two years ago, all this would have been inconceivable.''
But Dr. Lozansky said the Soviets want something in exchange. ''They recognize that we are ahead of them in business education, economics and computer science,'' he said. ''Those are fields in which their educators hope to learn from us.''
Quantum's American staff, based in Washington, acknowledges that some examples used in the magazine might seem more pointed to Soviet readers than to Americans. For example, an article by A. N. Pegoyev, ''Don't Stand Under the Bulb!'' deals with the physics of different ways in which light bulbs burn out - or explode, something they rarely do in America.
American scientists also acknowledge that some of the problems published in Quantum might be beyond the preparation of its American readers. ''But our goal,'' Dr. Lozansky said, ''is to improve American education. Quantum will serve as a beacon to aim at.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: KVANT (SOVIET MAGAZINE)

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); PHYSICS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); GEOMETRY (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); GIFTED EDUCATION (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W



262 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

 
Companies
G.M. said it might buy a minority stake in Jaguar and was also discussing joint ventures in manufacturing and marketing with the company. The announcement pits G.M. against Ford, which has already bought a stake in Jaguar and signaled that it might seek control of the company. [Page D1.] 
USAir's share price rose $3.625, to $52.25, after a report in USA Today that its largest shareholder wanted it to raise its market value and would consider a hostile bid. USAir later said it expected sharply lower profits for the third and fourth quarters. [D1.]
Wildcatters and pipeline companies are struggling over how to exploit a 1987 Arco discovery of a major natural-gas field in southeastern Oklahoma. [D1.]
North American developers are rushing to get a foothold in Europe before 1992, when trade barriers fall. But real estate experts say many developers will soon be limping home after they discover how complex building in Europe can be. [D1.]
Merck and Johnson & Johnson have agreed to buy the over-the-counter drug business of ICI America in a deal they valued at $450 million. [D1.]
American Medical International agreed to a revised acquisition offer from an investor group but left open the possibility that it would seek another bidder for the company. [D4.]
Some big companies have been making big layoffs. But a relatively steady unemployment rate means others are hiring. [D15.]
Wickes agreed to sell A.P.S., a distributor of automotive parts, for $200 million to a company created by Clayton & Dubilier. [D4.]
A tiny biotechnology company in Princeton has obtained a patent on a fundamental process for creating genetically engineered animals. [D2.]
Dow Jones said its net income dropped 10 percent in the third quarter, a result of further declines in newspaper advertising and of start-up costs for foreign services at Telerate. [D19.]
 
Economy
Congress plans to take its first close look in years at how the Federal Reserve makes economic policy. Two competing measures introduced by House Democrats would in totally different ways assert political influence over the powerful institution. But neither bill seems to stand much chance of becoming law. [D1.]
 
Markets
Stocks ended moderately higher and the Dow reached a historic high for the fifth session in a row after moving in a narrow range throughout the day. The transportation average rose 13.87, to 1,518.49, pushed up by airline stocks. [D8.]
Talks about a possible merger between the Philadelphia and American stock exchanges have broken off, and officials from the exchanges said no agreement was likely to be reached. [D8.]
The dollar turned narrowly mixed in thin holiday trading. The British pound sank below 3 West German marks in Europe for the first time in 18 months, despite last week's rise in base lending rates in line with similar rate increases across Europe. [D14.]
Treasury note and bond prices moved higher in very light holiday trading, with most of the activity taking place in Europe. [D15.]
Grain and soybean futures prices closed lower as traders reacted to news of near-perfect harvesting conditions. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
Hospitals are suing states, charging that tight-fisted Medicaid policies are costing them billions each year in lost or delayed payments. Business and Health. [D2.]
Carl C. Icahn's increase in his stake in USX to 14 percent has ignited anew a flurry of speculation among investors and analysts about what the company might be forced to do. Market Place. [D8.]
A Holiday Shoppers' Express Bus will be offered by New York Woman magazine and American Express. Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (69%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (55%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); TENET HEALTHSYSTEM HOLDINGS INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); 

SUBJECT: No Index Terms NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); MERGERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); NATURAL GAS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (62%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (52%); MOTOR VEHICLES & PARTS WHOLESALERS (50%); 



263 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1729 words

HEADLINE: Developers Rushing Into Europe

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
With tight regulation keeping office vacancy rates in Europe below 3 percent, North American developers are rushing to get a foothold in this profitable market before 1992, when trade barriers fall.
In east London, Olympia & York, a Canadian company with vast United States operations, is building the $5 billion, 12-million-square-foot Canary Wharf, which will be the world's largest office and retail complex.
In Brussels, Paris, Munich, Hamburg and Frankfurt, Trammell Crow, the largest real estate developer in the United States, is building office towers and commercial warehouses.
And in Frankfurt, Tishman-Speyer Properties, a New York real estate giant, is building the 53-story Messeturm, a tower that will be the tallest building in continental Europe.
''A lot of people are looking and considering it,'' said David Shulman, head of real estate research at Salomon Brothers. 
But real estate experts say many developers now jetting across the Atlantic will soon be limping home after they discover how complex building in Europe can be. Charles Grossman, managing director of Jones Lang Wootton Realty Advisors, an international consulting firm, said: ''Only the leading American developers are going to make it in Europe. It's hard to find sites and hard to get consent to build. You're not going to go to London and wave your magic wand and build a million-square-foot building.''
For many reasons American builders have become suddenly dazzled by Europe, and taken together they make a compelling argument.
For one thing, big developers ''are looking for something to do; the opportunities in the States aren't as present as they were just a few years ago,'' said William Conway, managing director of Jones Lang Wootton. ''Second, for the last several years returns on investment-grade property have been greater in Europe.''
 
Different Traditions
Moreover, he added, ''In Europe there is not the tradition of organizing large pools of capital to do large development projects speculatively, as there is in the States. The American developers are bringing skills to the European marketplace as it is developing. They've done things on a scale that Europeans haven't done except through the state.''
The European market is also attractive because it tends to expand and contract on a different cycle from the American market, allowing investors to hedge their bets and enabling developers to keep growth advancing steadily.
''There is clear evidence of countercyclical behavior,'' Mr. Grossman said. ''While the U.S. markets were entering a burst of overbuilding, the European markets were coming out of a burst of overbuilding and going into a very tight market. Now you have restricted supply and strong demand, hence high rates.''
 
Higher Returns in Europe
According to a study done by Jones Lang Wootton, real returns on European office buildings have been higher than in the United States. ''The seven major European markets averaged total returns of 12.5 percent and 16.2 percent over the last 10 years and 5 years, respectively, compared with 5.5 percent and 2.3 percent in the U.S.,'' the study said.
One factor is that the supply of office space in Europe is still fairly limited at a time when businesses are expanding quickly. Vacancy rates have been around 3 percent largely as a result of strict planning controls and a dense pattern of existing development. With economic expansion and growth in certain business sectors, like financial services, demand for space has been steadily growing in some cities, and rents have followed.
By contrast, in American cities over the last 10 years the office vacancy rate has risen from roughly 5 percent to 20 percent, a Salomon Brothers study said. In markets like New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, vacancy rates ''have fallen little from their 1986 peak - near 17 percent in the downtowns and 24 percent in the suburbs,'' the study said. The Salomon report found 475 million square feet of vacant office space, or 19.1 percent of the total inventory, after surveying 50 American metropolitan office markets.
 
Tough Act to Follow
American real estate ''will be hard pressed to repeat the superior performance reported during 1977-81,'' Mr. Shulman, Salomon's research director, said in another recent study. He said that between 1977 and 1981, the Frank Russell Company Index of institutional properties earned a real return of 7.1 percent annually. Office vacancy rates were negligible, he said, adding, ''Today's real estate markets are glutted.''
Some analysts think the rush to do big commercial developments in Europe could eventually create similar problems there.
''The U.S. is exporting the office building boom to Europe, and we think it could mean the same type of overbuilding we had here,'' said Donald Williams, chief executive of Trammell Crow. ''We think this is the time to be careful. In London, for example, it looks like there is serious overbuilding already.
''We've been building offices and warehouses in Europe since 1971. It's not zillions of dollars, but it's steady. You need to find niches of economic activity; you can't just go over and say we're going to build America again.''
 
'Different Ball Game'
Many developers warn that Europe's commercial real estate markets are not money trees waiting for Americans to shake them.
''It's a whole different ball game over there,'' said John C. Portman 3d, president and chief operating officer of the Portman Companies. ''Land prices as a percentage of construction are so much greater.''
Mr. Portman, whose firm is heavily engaged in development in East Asia, is now considering doing a construction project in Moscow, but he said he was afraid of taking on too many difficult foreign markets.
One obvious challenge is simply distance. It can be tricky for an American company to develop and manage properties 3,000 miles away.
 
'Making a Huge Mistake'
''When something is under your nose it's much easier,'' said Lawrence Silverstein of Silverstein Properties, a New York developer.
Many developers rushing to Europe are ''making a huge mistake,'' said Jerry I. Speyer, the head of Tishman-Speyer. ''Things are much more difficult when they're far away.''
He said all sorts of regulations constrict what developers can do. ''There are countries where the laws require that every office worker has access to window space,'' he said. ''You end up with office floors that are small by American standards, like 1,200 square feet, rather than about 30,000.''
But Debra McClain, head of Morgan Stanley's European real estate operations, said the big developers that have made the jump across the Atlantic have so far approached the markets carefully.
''The big developers are working in some way with local expertise, either with local consultants or with local developers as partners,'' she said, adding that planning restrictions are not the only challenge. ''You need to know who your competitors are, and you need to know the local authorities to get through the planning process.''
 
Styles of Retailing
Analysts also emphasize that different approaches to retailing affects building. In Europe, mom-and-pop stores dominate the retail business, but in the United States, the huge chains that rent space in the malls and shopping centers have made many American fortunes. Some consultants say European land-use commissions are often dominated by people determined to preserve the small local retailer, often making it impossible for developers to build American-style malls.
''Mom-and-pop retailers still have an incredible amount of control over the approval process,'' said Mr. Williams of Trammell Crow, ''and they will not let you into the market. We've had to learn modesty the hard way.''
Mr. Speyer of Tishman adds that in many European cities so many buildings have landmark status that just finding land can be a challenge. So much of the activity in the cities is converting building to offices.
Still, despite the obstacles, many developers are determined to build in Europe as 1992 draws near. They foresee enormous demand for commercial space as European corporations start new operations to take advantage of falling economic barriers, like fewer limits on the movement of capital, goods and labor.
 
Property Values Soar
''The general attitude is that this thing is going to be bigger than the Marshall Plan,.'' said Mr. Conway of Jones Lang Wootton.
In Brussels, headquarters of the European Community, the anticipation has sent property values and rents soaring, sparking protests by citizens groups against the speculative buying and development that has transformed housing blocks into offices and driven up residential rents. And in Frankfurt, a hub for banking activity, spending on commercial construction has skyrocketed.
In the post-1992 era, European corporations are likely to move toward larger, more centralized plants, and that will mean an increase in construction, analysts say. Trammell Crow's recent construction of a 600,000-square-foot warehouse and office complex for Nissan may be an example of what is likely to come. The complex, in Dusseldorf, will be the focal point of the Japanese car maker's operations in continental Europe.
 
More Activity Now
''The 1992 unification is a reality,'' Mr. Williams of Trammell Crow said. ''There is more economic activity now than I've ever seen in Europe.''
But some developers are not so sure 1992 means more demand for space. Peter Rogowski, a German who heads Trammell Crow International from an office in Brussels, said developers are convincing themselves that 1992 will be a panacea.
He said 1992 ''is considerably overestimated,'' and added: ''There will be a shift in certain centers of gravity in terms of distribution centers, but in the office centers we are headed for overbuilding. In our industry people always try to make themselves believe these things until the crunch comes.''
Mr. Speyer of Tishman said 1992 ''is going to come and go.''
''The difference between the present Europe and the future Europe is that it's going to be far more united,'' he continued. ''It doesn't mean that there's going to an explosion in the need for space.''
If the 1992 naysayers are right, many American developers will soon be happy again to be building on familiar shores.

GRAPHIC: Olympia & York, one of the many North American developers entering the profitable European commercial real estate market, is building the world's largest office and retail complex, at Canary Wharf in east London. (NYT/Mike McQueen) (pg. D1); graph indicating percent of average annual returns on commercial office space in US and Western Europe (NYT) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JLL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: JONES LANG LASALLE INC (84%); TRAMMELL CROW CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (55%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D WILLIAM E CONWAY JR (55%); 



264 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: USAir Stock Rises Sharply, But a Profit Slump Is Seen

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Stock in the USAir Group, owner of the nation's seventh-largest airline, rose sharply yesterday after a published report that its largest shareholder, the money manager Michael H. Steinhardt, wanted the company to increase its share price and might consider a hostile bid.
After the close of trading, USAir announced that it expected sharply lower profits for the third and fourth quarters and that its flights were less full in September than in September of last year.
Shares of USAir climbed $3.625, to $52.25, and were the most-actively traded issue on the New York Stock Exchange. More than 1.6 million shares changed hands on an otherwise quiet trading day. 
The second-most-active stock on the Big Board was the AMR Corporation, which owns American Airlines. AMR rose $1, to $104.75, with 1.2 million shares traded. Last week, the developer Donald J. Trump offered to buy the company for $120 a share, or $7.5 billion, if the company's management was amenable.
AMR, which is expected to reject the proposal, has been studying for weeks whether to create an employee stock ownership plan to help deter any takeover attempt, an investment banker who asked not to be identified said.
The heavy trading in USAir and AMR follows a $3.65 billion leveraged buyout in August of NWA Inc., the parent of Northwest Airlines, and an agreement for a $6.75 billion buyout of the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines. The vigorous takeover activity in the airline industry has prompted strong criticism in Congress and the Department of Transportation that could make it more difficult to carry out further transactions.
One concern of critics of the deals is that airlines are assuming heavy loads of debt and might be vulnerable if airline traffic continues to slip, as it has this year.
USAir said yesterday that traffic had tumbled in September, with its planes flying 56.3 percent full, down from 57.4 percent in the same period last year.
In addition, USAir said its third- and fourth-quarter profits would be ''significantly lower than those of the comparable 1988 period.'' The company cited a weakening economy and the effects of Hurricane Hugo.
In November 1987, USAir bought Piedmont Airlines, which had its hub in Charlotte, N.C. ''We had 300 flights a day out of Charlotte,'' said David Shipley, a spokesman for USAir. ''That day, I think we had two or three,'' he added, referring to the hurricane. At one point during the storm, 18 airports with USAir operations were shut, he said. It took three days to restore normal operations.
 
Hubs in Pittsburgh and Charlotte
USAir, formerly Allegheny Airlines, merged its operations with Pacific Southwest Airlines on April 9 of last year and with Piedmont on Aug. 5. It is repainting the planes of those two carriers with its own colors. USAir's major hub airports are in Pittsburgh and Charlotte.
The announcement of the fall in profits followed a report by Dan Dorfman in USA Today that Mr. Steinhardt, who owns 8.4 percent of the stock, wanted the company to consider such options as expanding international service, selling a stake to a foreign carrier, or paying a large cash dividend to shareholders.
Mr. Steinhardt was not in his office yesterday and was not available for comment, his assistant said.
Mr. Shipley of USAir declined to comment on Mr. Dorfman's column. Unlike many United States carriers, USAir does not have any joint marketing agreements with foreign airlines. In addition, the company is not aware of any purchases of its stock by other carriers, Mr. Shipley said.
 
Takeover Defenses
USAir created two takeover defenses in August. It put 5 percent of its shares in an employee stock ownership plan, and it sold to Warren E. Buffett, the billionaire investor, an issue of preferred stock that is convertible into shares equal to a 12 percent stake in the company.
Mr. Steinhardt is an aggressive trader who runs a $1.4 billion partnership that bears his name. His habit of rapidly changing the stocks in his portfolio on a daily basis makes him one of the highest generators of trading commissions on Wall Street. Professional traders were skeptical yesterday that he would seek to buy the company.
''What's he going to do with it?'' asked an arbitrager who requested not to be identified. ''He's not an operator.''
But the traders and an airline industry analyst added that his interest would focus attention on USAir and put pressure on its management to change the company's financial structure to benefit shareholders.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 11, 1989, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the USAir Group misstated the period this year in which the airline's passenger flights were less full than in 1988. Last month, USAir flights were 56.3 percent full, compared with 57.4 percent in September 1988.

GRAPHIC: Michael H. Steinhardt, the money manager, who is said to be considering making a hostile bid for the USAir Group. (NYT/Peter Freed) (pg. D11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (94%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); NWA INC (67%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: USAIR GROUP INC

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS (CORPORATE); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); HURRICANES (65%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; STEINHARDT, MICHAEL H DONALD TRUMP (52%); 



265 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Little Chance Seen for Bills That Would Put Rein on Fed

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9

 BODY:
This month, Congress plans to take its first close look in years at how the Federal Reserve makes economic policy. Two competing measures introduced by House Democrats, one supported and the other strongly opposed by the Fed, would in totally different ways assert political influence over the powerful, secretive institution.
Neither measure seems to stand much chance of becoming law. But public hearings before the House Banking Committee's subcommittee on domestic monetary policy, scheduled to begin Oct. 25, will provide a forum for critics and friends alike. 
The critics say the Fed should be more accountable politically, and the friends want to add political muscle to the central bank's efforts to drive down inflation.
One of those friends, Stephen L. Neal of North Carolina, the chairman of the subcommittee, has introduced a resolution that would require the Fed over the next five years to eliminate inflation, now running just under 5 percent. The bill offers no specifics on how this would be done.
Competing with Mr. Neal's resolution is a bill introduced by Lee H. Hamilton of Indiana and Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota that would make the Treasury Secretary a member of the Fed's policy-making committee, force policy decisions to be made public immediately and require Government audits of the Fed's accounts.
By being able to raise and lower interest rates, the Fed has by far the most influence over the nation's economy of any Government body. And as Congress and the executive branch have lost their grip on budget policy in recent years, the Fed's authority has increased markedly.
Because of the way the institution was set up, its operations are more removed from political accountability than any other part of the Government outside the judiciary. The Fed governors and regional bank presidents have no real guidance from Congress or the President.
The meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, where policy decisions are made, are held behind locked doors, and no transcript is kept. The decisions are not announced for six weeks, and even then only a skeletal summary of what transpired is made public. No other branch of Government can veto the decisions.
The point of Mr. Neal's measure, he maintains, is that Congress should state unambiguously that ending inflation is a primary policy goal.
''By eliminating inflation,'' he said in an interview, ''we establish the essential foundation for the highest possible sustainable levels of economic growth, employment, savings, capital formation, investment, productivity, competitiveness and efficiency.''
Mr. Neal drafted his measure to get the support of Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, who is scheduled to be the first witness at the hearings.
 
Little Effect Expected
Few other lawmakers have shown interest in the Neal proposal, and most believe that since it has no enforcement mechanism it would have little effect. No particular event precipitated the interest in the House. In the Senate, there seems to be no inclination to meddle with the Fed. Moreover, Mr. Greenspan, astute in the ways of Washington, is more open in his dealings with Congress than many of his predecessors were and the consensus in Congress, adhered to by Mr. Neal, Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Dorgan, is that the Fed chairman is doing a fine job.
Disagreement remains, however, over the proper role of the central bank and the policies it should follow in the future. Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Dorgan take issue with Mr. Neal's premise that inflation should be ended at all costs.
''I don't accept that as the single goal of economic policy,'' Mr. Hamilton said. ''The question is how you hit a target of low inflation, full employment and growth. I can foresee price stability and 20 percent unemployment or price stability and recession, and that is unacceptable.''
 
'Profoundly Undemocratic'
Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Dorgan said they had no complaint with current Fed policy but worried that, in Mr. Hamilton's words, the central bank was ''profoundly undemocratic.''
Mr. Dorgan said, ''We ought to lift the veil of secrecy, the cloak of mystery about how it works.''
For his part, Mr. Neal said that placing the Treasury Secretary on the Open Market Committee would ''politicize the Fed'' and result in ''roller-coaster economics.''
Mr. Greenspan agrees with that view. The chairman believes that putting the Treasury Secretary in a policy-making position would make it more difficult for the Fed to take unpopular political stands, like raising interest rates, that are in the public's long-term benefit. And he maintains that announcing decisions when they are made would lead to instability in the financial markets and make it impossible to put a policy in place gradually.
 
Bid for Control Seen
Some economists agree with Mr. Greenspan. Herbert Stein, who was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Nixon Administration and is now a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, said the Hamilton-Dorgan bill was ''designed to increase control over the Fed by people whose general interest is in pumping the economy up.''
Jerry L. Jordan, chief economist at First Interstate Bancorp and a member of the Council of Economic Advisers in President Reagan's first term, said the markets would ''move in a nanosecond'' if the Fed disclosed its interest rate targets.
But other economists are not so sure. John Paulus, chief economist at Morgan Stanley & Company, said the main reason the Fed governors cherish secrecy is that it ''makes it easier for them to avoid public criticism.'' And if decisions were released as soon as they were made? ''I think the Republic would survive quite well,'' he added.
Political scientists are almost unanimous in their criticism of the Fed's independence from elected officials. Prof. James David Barber of Duke University said he was amused by the argument that Fed governors could act in the public interest only if they did so in secret. ''That,'' he said, ''is the kind of argument King George III would make.''
 
Reluctance by Brady
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady does not want to serve on the Fed's policy committee. His assistants say he does not want to compromise the central bank's independence. Some Democrats in Congress think, however, that he does not want the responsibility and that the real reason is that the Bush Administration wants to maintain its freedom to blame the Fed if economic policy turns sour.
Congress has debated the Fed's policies and place in the Government occasionally over the years but has rarely acted. Since the Federal Reserve System was established in 1913, the nature of the Fed has been altered significantly by Congress only twice. A 1935 law centralized policy control in Washington and made the system basically what it is today. In 1980, Congress gave the Fed control over the reserves of private banks.
Paradoxically, one key provision of the 1935 law was to remove the Treasury Secretary from a position on the Federal Reserve Board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); AUDITS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BYRON DORGAN (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



266 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Narrowly Mixed; British Pound Moves Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was narrowly mixed yesterday in thin holiday trading. Gold prices were lower. Currency dealers said trading was subdued and abbreviated because of the Columbus Day and Yom Kippur holidays. The markets in Hong Kong were also closed for a holiday, while trading in Japan slowed on the eve of a holiday there. 
Taking the spotlight was the British pound, which sank below 3 West German marks in Europe for the first time in 18 months, despite last week's rise in base lending rates in line with similar rate hikes across Europe.
Some dealers said they were worried that Britain's anti-inflation strategy might tilt the nation's economy into a recession.
''There are no positives for the pound,'' said Jeremy Hale, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company. ''Recession is now the center of concern.''
The pound closed at $1.5775 in London, down from $1.6030 Friday. The pound fetched $1.5775 in New York, lower than $1.6055 on Friday.
In Tokyo, where trading ends before Europe's business day begins, the dollar fell 0.22 Japanese yen to close at 142.23 yen. It traded at 142.80 yen in London, and at 142.85 yen in New York, up from 142.43 yen on Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's rates, included: 1.8875 West German marks, down from 1.8885; 1.6485 Swiss francs, up from 1.6420; 6.3995 French francs, down from 6.4050; 1.17525 Canadian dollars, unchanged, and 1,383.25 Italian lire, unchanged.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with Friday, included: 1.8865 West German marks, down from 1.8880; 1.6457 Swiss francs, up from 1.6435; 6.4005 French francs, down from 6.4035; 2.1310 Dutch guilders, down from 2.1350; 1.1749 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1760, and 1,384.00 Italian lire, up from 1,380.25.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery closed at $363.10 an ounce, down 60 cents from Friday. Republic National Bank of New York quoted a late bid for gold at $362.50 an ounce, off 75 cents.
Gold fell in London to a late bid price of $362.75 an ounce, from $363.25 on Friday, but it was unchanged in Zurich at $362.80 an ounce.
Silver prices declined. On the Comex, silver for current delivery fell to $5.050 an ounce, from $5.117 Friday. Silver fell in London to $5.09 an ounce, from $5.14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); HSBA (LSE) (63%); HSB (PAR) (63%); HBC (NYSE) (63%); 0005 (HKSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); CANADA (92%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); HONG KONG (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SWITZERLAND (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (63%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BRITISH POUND (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); YOM KIPPUR (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INTEREST RATES (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (61%); 



267 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Rate Steady Because of Service Sector

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Some big companies have been making big layoffs. But the relatively steady unemployment rate, which has fluctuated between 5.1 percent and 5.3 percent since April, means that others must be hiring.
Several manufacturers have been aggressively cutting costs and jobs. The International Business Machines Corporation, for example, is offering early retirement to 1,000 employees. And Borden Inc. plans to eliminate 7,000 jobs from its dairy operations. So who is hiring? Steven Haugen, an economist with the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said job growth was concentrated in the service sector, which includes everything from data processing to theme parks to beauty parlors. Experts say this sector is creating more than 1.5 million jobs a year. 317,000 New Service Jobs ''Services is very labor-intensive,'' said John Hekman, a senior economist at the Claremont Economics Institute in Claremont, Calif. 
In September alone, when the loss of 103,000 manufacturing jobs pushed the unemployment rate up one-tenth of a percent, to 5.2 percent, service industries added 317,000 jobs. That reflects the return of teachers to their classrooms and the ending of a telephone workers' strike. But economists say health-care providers, temporary-help agencies, hotels and the entertainment industry consistently added jobs.
The health-care industry is growing at just less than 10 percent a year, said Geoffrey Fenton, a spokesman for Baxter International Inc., a large medical supplies manufacturer in Deerfield, Ill.
Baxter added 2,400 jobs in 1988, and Mr. Fenton said the payroll continued to grow this year. Revenue rose 10 percent last year, and sales are significantly higher this year, he said.
Orders to the 6,000 to 7,000 hospitals Baxter supplies are increasing as an aging population requires more medical care. But the fastest-growing area of new business for Baxter lies in the sale of ''alternate-site'' products, like intravenous solutions and dialysis items used at home and in nursing homes. Overall outpatient care is growing at the rate of about 20 percent annually, Mr. Hekman said.
 
'Meteoric' Growth
For temporary workers, employment growth has been ''meteoric'' over the last five years, said Mitchell Fromstein, chief executive of Manpower Inc.
As a result of this growth, Manpower's permanent staff has increased by 1,000 employees since the beginning of the year, Mr. Fromstein said.
''We're increasing the number of offices we operate by 10 percent a year, and we will do at least that going forward,'' he said.
Mr. Fromstein noted that the number of people employed temporarily has tripled since 1982.
In the entertainment and recreation sector, theme parks are booming. The Walt Disney Company has added about 4,000 people to its payroll with the opening of three new attractions at Disney World in Orlando, Fla. -Disney-MGM Studios, Typhoon Lagoon water park and a nighttime entertainment section, a spokesman, Erwin Okun, said. $600 Million Investment MCA Inc. is investing $600 million in a Universal Studios movie park that will compete directly with Disney's Florida attractions when it opens in the spring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (83%); BAX (SWX) (83%); BAX (NYSE) (83%); DIS (NYSE) (80%); IBMC (BRU) (72%); IBM (NYSE) (72%); IBM (LSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (83%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (80%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (80%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (60%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MANPOWERGROUP (83%); BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (83%); WALT DISNEY CO (80%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (72%); DISNEY'S HOLLYWOOD STUDIOS (60%); BORDEN INC (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); STRIKES (73%); DIALYSIS (72%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (72%); HOSPITALS (71%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (71%); HEALTH CARE (71%); NURSING HOMES (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); LODGING (70%); WATER PARKS (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (63%); AGING (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL S FROMSTEIN (72%); 



268 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 22, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Summit Bid By Venezuela

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 9

 BODY:
Venezuela's President, Carlos Andres Perez, is calling for a special summit meeting of rich and poor countries to tackle the crippling debt and other economic problems of South American nations.
''If our relations with creditor countries do not improve by next year, there could be unforeseeable consequences in Latin America,'' Mr. Perez said in an interview published today in Le Figaro, the French daily. 
He said Latin America's worsening economic crisis risked sparking riots in Venezuela and other countries like Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.
''We have arrived at a turning point,'' Mr. Perez said. ''If we do not settle the debt problem, all our sacrifices will be for nothing, because of the resources that will have to be spent servicing our debt.''
Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Venezuela and Chile are among the 10 most-indebted third world countries, owing a total of $343 billion.
In Venezuela, 300 people were killed in February in riots against price controls and the removal of state subsidies introduced as part of austerity measures.
Mr. Perez, supported by India, Egypt and Senegal, issued a similar call at the seven-nation summit of top industrial democracies in Paris in July. France backed the idea, but the United States, Britain and West Germany were unenthusiastic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (57%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); FRANCE (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EGYPT (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); GERMANY (50%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; VENEZUELA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%); 

PERSON: PEREZ, CARLOS ANDRES (PRES) CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ (94%); 



269 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 28, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: On Horse Racing;
Gold Cup Upstaged By OTB

BYLINE: By Steven Crist

 BODY:
rrMaybe the Belmont Special train that left Penn Station Saturday morning is still stuck in a tunnel somewhere. Maybe 15,000 people all got the day wrong and thought that the Jockey Club Gold Cup was next Saturday. Or maybe the meters on the turnstiles counted only every second customer.
Sadly, none of the above is likely, and the fact remains that only 18,260 people were at Belmont Park three days ago to see Easy Goer win the Gold Cup: a day, a race and a horse that would have drawn at least twice that crowd a generation ago. 
Where have all the horseplayers gone?
Easy Goer is as popular a horse as has raced in New York this decade, and the rest of the Gold Cup card was one of the year's best. The weather was as crisp and inviting as autumn in New York can be.
Nor was it the fact that Easy Goer probably had to fall down to lose and would pay off at the stingy rate of just $2.20 for $2. When Kelso won five straight Gold Cups from 1960 through 1964, he never paid more than $2.80, but the stands were packed. rrSo where have all the horseplayers gone? Gone to OTB, in many cases, which was not an option in Kelso's day. An estimated 100,000 people a day bet through Offtrack Betting Corporation shops around the state. On Saturday, they bet $5.28 million on the Belmont card. Those at the track bet $5.16 million.
Optimists and bottom-liners would say that Saturday's $10.44 million betting handle means the game is better than ever. OTB has enabled the total horse betting handle to grow faster than inflation since Kelso's era, allowing New York to continue presenting the nation's best racing in summer and fall. Few would argue that OTB is necessary for racing to survive the competition for the entertainment and wagering dollar.
That does not mean, however, that it does not matter whether fans are participating from a storefront betting shop on Broadway or from a seat in the Belmont grandstand. There are major differences, both financially and philosophically.
For every dollar wagered at the racetrack on most bets, 83 percent is returned to the bettors. Half of the remaining 17 percent, or 8.5 percent, goes to the track. The rest is shared by the State of New York (5 percent), race purses (3 percent) and the state breeding fund (0.5 percent). rrAt New York City OTB, the purses and the breeding fund get the same slices, but only 1.75 percent (instead of 8.75 percent) goes to the track, and just 1.1 percent (instead of 5 percent) goes to the state. The remaining 10.65 percent goes to OTB itself, which also takes a 5 percent surcharge on winning payoffs for payments to the city.
OTB is administered in such a way, by six regional corporations created solely to provide six times as many paychecks for political appointees, that it barely turns a profit, despite its exorbitant slice of the betting dollar. And every dollar it handles provides less than a quarter of the revenue for the track and the state than an on-track dollar does.
It is tempting to fault Belmont officials for failing to drum up a larger crowd for the Gold Cup. These officials have certainly made mistakes. They have allowed cheap horses and New York-bred runners to dull the daily racing fare and have failed to persuade legislators to ease the excessive takeout rate and unreasonable withholding taxes that are driving gamblers to other games. rrBut Belmont did everything right in promoting this year's Gold Cup. A heavy print-advertising campaign reminded day after day that this would be the last chance to see Easy Goer race in New York this year. The racing office put together a fine card, and bringing the old gelding Creme Fraiche back for a retirement parade down the stretch was nice.
OTB should be creating new customers, who might bet mostly at the storefronts but then might actually want to see racing in the flesh on a day like last Saturday. It is just not happening. The message that racing has failed to deliver is that being there means more than an extra 5 percent on your winning tickets.
It means seeing a magnificent thoroughbred at the top of his game, watching him closely and feeling something special as he walks by you in the paddock. It is the tension of the post parade, the clang of the starting bell, the murmurs and then the shouts of encouragement from the crowd when the favorite makes his move.
It is reveling in an afternoon like last Saturday at a park as glorious as Belmont, glimpsing the last flowers of summer and the first turning leaves of fall, taking a deep breath as the horses turn for home and feeling the chill of coming winter sting your lungs and clear your head.
It's a ticket you can't buy at any OTB shop.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: THE JOCKEY CLUB (84%); THE JOCKEY CLUB (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: RACING ASSN, NEW YORK; OFF-TRACK BETTING CORP

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; THOROUGHBRED RACING HORSE RACING (92%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); GAMING (70%); RETAILERS (64%); 

PERSON: CRIST, STEVEN



270 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: With Phones Everywhere, Everyone Is Talking More

BYLINE: By TRISH HALL

 BODY:
Americans tell pollsters that they do not have enough time to cook, clean, see their children or just relax. But they are spending an ever-growing part of their day on the telephone.
In some business and social circles, it is de rigueur to complain about all this telephoning, and new devices to insulate people from callers seem to be catching on. But from 1980 to 1987, the time Americans spent on the telephone increased 24 percent, from 3.017 trillion minutes to 3.754 trillion minutes, while the population grew only 7 percent, according to the Federal Communications Commission.
Business and residential use grew about equally, the F.C.C. said. While some of the increase is due to facsimile machines and computers, ''I'd be real surprised if machines talking to machines accounted for more than 10 percent of the increase,'' said James Lande, an F.C.C. economist. 
Checking in. Catching up. Passing it on. Sounding off. That is what people do when there is a phone in the car, on the plane, in every room, in the backyard and even on the golf course, not to mention call waiting, automatic redial, answering machines and a sharp drop in long-distance rates. The time spent on the phone is also increasing because it can be used for so much more: information services, shopping, banking and socializing with strangers.
''It's like the Law of the Hammer,'' said Arnold Brown, a consultant in New York who helps companies prepare for the future. ''When you give a child a hammer, everything becomes a nail.''
 
A Domino Effect
Joel Gross, a telephone analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, sees something he calls ''the Ping-Pong, or domino, effect.'' From his research he has concluded that users of cellular car phones are often making calls they would not have had time to make before. And each of these new calls can generate several other calls.
The opportunity to talk to almost anybody from almost anywhere is most appealing to those who believe that time should always be used for purposeful activities. Randy Friedman, a partner in a Detroit law firm and the owner of several businesses, said the car phone he bought five years ago has allowed him to double his workload. ''Once you can do business in your car,'' he said, ''you're always doing business.'' Now, he never worries about being late to the office: ''If I'm caught in traffic, I just do business on the phone.''
Carey Lyons, who sells dental equipment for the Swiss company Bien Air from his office in Cornwall, N.Y., makes work and personal calls from his car phone. After learning that an acquaintance needed a lawyer, he used the car phone to find someone who could help. ''I would have forgotten about it otherwise or definitely delayed it,'' he said.
 
Long Distance No Obstacle
Mr. Lyons and his wife, Elaine, both 34 years old, make long-distance calls frequently and casually, unlike older people who remember when coast-to-coast calls cost five times what they do now. They call her parents in Florida at least three times a week. ''After the first three minutes,'' he said, ''they talk a lot faster.''
Younger people have no such inhibitions. Michael Findley, a 22-year-old salesman at a Manhattan telephone store called the Fone Booth, lives in his parents' house in Queens. In his room he has two telephone lines, four telephones and a fax machine. He uses the fax to send notes to his girlfriend in Japan.
''If someone calls me, I'm always accessible,'' he said. ''If I had only one phone, I wouldn't talk as much.''
Remarkably, sociologists have little hard data about how the use of the telephone may be altering human communication. The effect of the telephone on society has been studied far less than, say, the effect of television or the computer.
 
A Way of Reaching Out
To some, the increasing use of the telephone is just another way for people to expand their reach. Dr. Deirdre Boden, an assistant professor of sociology at Washington University in St. Louis who studies telephone conversations, said, ''We live in a society where people can't be face to face.''
Communication by phone closely mimics in-person contact, she said. She has found, for example, that with car phones when callers have a choice of using a receiver or a speaker, they tend to choose the intimacy of the receiver.
Dr. Claude Fischer, a sociology professor of the University of California at Berkeley, says the telephone mostly augments traditional communication. ''Many telephone conversations are conducted to arrange face-to-face meetings,'' he said.
Not always, though. James Katz, a sociologist at Bell Communications Research in Morristown, N.J., said, ''The telephone is very good for keeping families together, because some people may find it easier to talk to their relatives on the phone than to see them in person.''
 
Calls Generated by Technology
Whatever the psychological implications, new technology has clearly made the phone more omnipresent. More calls are generated because of answering machines, now owned by 28 percent of the nation's households, according to the Electronic Industries Association. People who use them say they make and receive more calls because of them. ''In olden days you would just miss the call,'' said Michael Beglin, a businessman in Nashville.
Jill Goodman, an art dealer in New York, says she talks on the phone so often that ''I'm tortured about it, teased and insulted.'' She uses the phone to socialize, shop and check in with people she wants to stay in touch with but does not want to take the time to see.
''I have two lines in the country, two lines at home in the city and three lines in my office, if that gives you any idea of how much phone I can generate,'' she said. A month ago, after resisting initially, she decided to have a car phone installed. ''I thought it might be nice to have a couple of hours without being reachable,'' she said. ''But I didn't like not being able to reach when I wanted to.''
Increasingly, too, people are using the phone to get services, information and products. The 900 numbers, which require callers to pay the cost, and the 800 numbers, paid for by the calls' recipients, are growing quickly. Sprint Gateways started a new 900 service in May that already has 250 lines. Callers can get wrestling trivia, financial updates, real-estate information and a host of other data. They can even play a version of ''Family Feud,'' which receives as many as 7,000 calls a day, said Adrian Toader, the director of sales and marketing.
Telephone shopping through 800 numbers continues to grow, too. In 1986, L. L. Bean, the retailer in Freeport, Me., received 60 percent of its orders by telephone and 40 percent by mail; by 1988, telephone orders had risen to 70 percent. Like an increasing number of retailers, L. L. Bean allows customers to call in their orders 24 hours a day.
 
Personal But Anonymous
But callers to 800 numbers often want more than a new shirt or sweater. Susan Dilworth, who takes telephone orders for L. L. Bean, said, ''A lot of people call and say: 'I'm coming to New England for the first time. How should I dress?' '' Other callers order merchandise but then begin talking about their personal lives. ''I think they're lonely,'' Mrs. Dilworth said.
Indeed, these anonymous but personal contacts are so popular that some people are becoming hooked. Marilyn Ng-A-Qui, the acting executive director of the New York City Self-Help Clearinghouse, said one man called looking for help because he had run up a $5,000 bill calling 900 numbers. ''It is emerging as a problem all over the country,'' she said.
Despite the deluge of telephone conversation, there are holdouts. Lois Korey, a partner in a New York advertising agency, writes letters whenever she can, often suggesting lunch meetings. ''I really like to see who I'm talking to,'' she said.
But even her partner, Allen Kay, calls her from his office just four feet away. The only time he could not telephone, Mrs. Korey said, was when he was in his car. And now those days are over. ''He got a car phone a month ago, and he calls all the time,'' she said. ''When I sit in the front seat of his car, I try to step on it.''

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the amount of sales of cellular phones, answering machines & cordless phones from '82-'89 (source: Electronic Industries Association) (NYT) (pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (59%); ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); TELEPHONE RATES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); LAWYERS (66%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (51%); 

PERSON: HALL, TRISH



271 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: California Alliance Proposes Vote On Broad Environmental Measure

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 10

 BODY:
In a move that has as much to do with California politics as the environment, an alliance of politicians and environmentalists today offered a ballot measure that they called the broadest effort ever mounted to protect air, food and water against chemical contamination.
If passed, the measure would phase out all agricultural pesticides that cause cancer or birth defects, ban new oil drilling off the coast and set up a $500 million state cleanup fund for oil spills, cut by 40 percent carbon dioxide emissions believed to contribute to global warming, prohibit the clearing of ancient redwood stands and create an elected environmental advocate with the power to sue to enforce the law.
 
Given Strong Chance for Passage
The measure would have profound consequences well beyond the state's borders for the chemical and agricultural industries and is expected to draw bitter opposition from them.
It has also received a cool reception from some environmentalists who say it tries to do too much and may not withstand legal challenge. But the measure is given a strong chance for passage amid a rising tide of public concern about the environment. 
Drafters of the proposal were unable to say today what the measures would ultimately cost.
The complex measure is the latest move by states and localities to take the lead in environmental legislation and proceed with more dispatch than the Federal Government. Tom Hayden, a Democratic State Assemblyman who was chairman of the panel that drafted the initiative, called it ''the most significant proposal for protecting the environment ever placed before the voters in this country.''
Drafters hope to put the proposal on the ballot next year, on the same date that Californians will vote for governor. The measure is already emerging as a major factor in the gubernatorial race. Candidates in the state have increasingly taken to linking their names to popular ballot measures to bring out sympathetic voters. But critics charge that the candidates are using the measures to skirt strict limits on campaign contributions, since there are no limits on contributions to ballot drives.
Even before the measure was written, Attorney General John Van de Kamp, a Democratic candidate for governor, endorsed it. His action put off balance two potential opponents, Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat who is a former Mayor of San Francisco, and Senator Pete Wilson, a Republican. Both have been asked to endorse the initiative and are considering it. But Senator Wilson, who has made elaborate gestures toward the environmental vote, wrote the drafters today that he would join only if certain ''defects'' in the measure, like transferring environmental enforcement authority from the governor to an environmental advocate, were corrected.
 
'Greater Concern' on Pollution
Environmentalists say they detect a rising tide of opinion against pollution in California and elsewhere that made the time ripe for today's move. ''There is greater concern than ever before,'' said Al Meyerhoff of the Natural Resources Defense Council, a nonprofit environmental advocacy group. ''This measure recognizes these issues cannot be dealt with piecemeal. California is going to set the stage for the battle over the environment.''
A ballot measure is needed, environmentalists say, because the Legislature has failed to act. ''A lot of these proposals have been discussed ad nauseum in the Legislature,'' said Lucy Blake, executive director of the 25,000-member League of Conservation Voters, a political action committee. ''As the environmental challenge becomes more staggering, we must circumvent many competing forces in the Legislature and get a clear expression from the voters.''
The measure was drawn up by representatives of the Sierra Club, the League of Conservation Voters, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the National Toxics Campaign, Citizens for a Better Environment, Lieut. Gov. Leo McCarthy and Attorney General Van de Kamp.
 
Three Major Concerns
The measure is aimed mainly at three concerns: the food supply, global warming and protection of coastal waters. The main elements are these:
* All pesticides and herbicides known to cause cancer or reproductive harm would have to be phased out by 1996. This would affect 24 chemicals in use in California, including Alachlor, Captan, 1,3-Dichloropropene and Aldicarb. If no alternatives could be found and ''severe economic hardship'' to the state's agriculture industry would result, a three-year extension could be obtained.
* The allowable levels of pesticide residues on foods would be reduced to levels safe for children. Produce imported from other states and countries would have to meet the same standard.
* Exposure of farm workers to dangerous pesticides would be reduced by lengthening quarantine periods before workers are allowed into a treated field. The workers would also be allowed access to pesticide use records.
* The state would develop a plan to reduce emissions of any gases that contribute to global warming when they rise into the stratosphere. The focus is on carbon dioxide, a major product of combustion, which would have to be reduced by 40 percent by the year 2010, less an adjustment for population growth. The measure does not specify how that would be done.
* The use or manufacture of all chlorofluorocarbons must be phased out by 1997, except for medical uses. CFC's are used in hundreds of ways in making electronic products and have been found to destroy the protective layer of ozone in the upper atmosphere.
* A $200 million state fund would be established to purchase stands of ancient redwood trees if threatened by logging. A one-year moratorium on the clearing of such strands would be imposed on the day of the vote, Nov. 7, 1990. Trees consume carbon dioxide and are thought to be needed to counter global warming.
* New offshore oil drilling would be permitted within the three-mile state limit only in a national emergency and the state would draw up a oil spill prevention plan. Oil producers would be assessed a fee of 25 cents a barrel to establish a $500 million oil spill prevention and cleanup fund.
The measure does not address other concerns like smog, drinking water quality and solid waste disposal. The drafters said these matters were already being addressed by other legislation.
Unlike in New York, voters in California can make law directly through the voter initiative under the State Constitution. And in the last 12 years Californians have used the ballot to try to roll back insurance rates, cut property taxes, limit state and local government spending and put new curbs on campaign contributions. An initiative becomes law if it gets more than half the votes cast.
 
Not Taking Sides
The environmentalists said today that in putting aside past differences and working with the Attorney General they were not taking the Democrat's side in the gubernatorial race. ''We have not any evaluation on the race yet,'' said Ms. Blake of the League of Conservation Voters.
But Otto Bos, Senator Wilson's campaign manager, said the Republican was invited to join the initiative process only at the last minute, and he suggested that Mr. Van de Kamp was using it to get around state campaign contribution limits. Backers of the proposal believe Mr. Wilson may remain neutral on it next year.
At a news conference this morning, Mr. Van de Kamp vigorously disputed suggestions that he was using the measure to get around contribution limits. ''Utter nonsense,'' he said.
Conspicuously absent from the measure is the Environmental Defense Fund, the major backer of a measure three years ago that requires warnings on products that cause cancer or birth defects. David Roe, a lawyer with the group in Oakland said he supported the initiative ''in principle'' but had reservations about the way the measure was drawn. It is almost certain to be challenged on the ground that it violates a California constitutional provision that ballot measures address only a single topic.
Clark Biggs, a spokesman for the California Farm Bureau Federation, representing the state's agricultural industry, said his organization had not seen the full proposal and was unable to comment in detail. ''We certainly aren't opposed to pesticide regulation if it's reasonable and protects agriculture and farm workers,'' he said. Mr. Meyerhoff said substitutes were available for most of the affected pesticides.
Mr. Hayden said the group would start next month to gather the 500,000 signatures needed to qualify the measure for the ballot, adding that $700,000 had already been raised for gathering the signatures and promoting the measure.

GRAPHIC: Table of a ballot measure proposed in California which would set strict new standards in environmental laws (NYT) (pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; CHEMICALS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; AIR POLLUTION; AGRICULTURE; PESTICIDES AND PESTS; WATER POLLUTION; FOOD; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); PESTICIDES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); BALLOTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); OIL SPILLS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); AGRICULTURE (72%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (71%); WATER QUALITY (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); CANCER (57%); OIL EXTRACTION (56%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 



272 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Bush Will Attend Latin Drug Talks

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
The leaders of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia urged President Bush today to meet them within 90 days to discuss ways to curb the cocaine trade, and the President quickly agreed.
The three South American leaders are meeting in Ica, Peru, to forge a strategy to battle the region's cocaine cartels. Peru and Bolivia produce more than 90 percent of the world's coca. Colombian drug cartels turn the partly refined coca paste into pure cocaine and smuggle it into the United States and Europe. 
Responding to the request for talks, Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman. said, ''We accept. The President will go.'' White House officials said that the President would try to meet the 90-day timetable but that it was uncertain if he could do so.
Mr. Bush has long advocated such a high-level meeting on the drug crisis, and White House officials said they had hoped that it would be convened this fall to complement the President's much-promoted national drug strategy, announced last month.
 
Refers to Bush Strategy
The gathering of Latin American leaders in Ica, a small desert town southeast of Lima, included Presidents Alan Garcia of Peru, Virgilio Barco Vargas of Colombia and Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia.
Referring to the Bush drug strategy, which calls for increased economic and military aid to their countries, the presidents said in a communique: ''We welcome the Bush initiative and accordingly we invited him to a meeting in the next 90 days.''
As the leaders were meeting in Ica, a bomb exploded in Trujillo, a nearby city where the foreign ministers of eight Latin nations were meeting, The Associated Press reported. No group took responsibility for the attack, and there were no injuries.
 
7 Slain in Medellin
BOGOTA, Colombia, Oct. 10 (AP) -Gunmen on motorcycles killed two executives of the newspaper El Espectador today in an apparent effort by cocaine traffickers to force the daily to end its anti-drug campaign.
The shootings, in Medellin, follow 13 bombings reported in three other Colombian cities overnight. It was the largest outbreak of attacks since the Government began its war on drugs.
Tonight the police said assailants in Medellin shot to death Roberto Sarasty, the 55-year-old director of Cronista Democratica magazine, on a downtown street. In a northern Medellin barrio, four people were killed when a working-class neighborhood bar was sprayed with gunfire.
The outbreak of violence today came during a visit by Gen. Maxwell Thurman, who heads the United States Southern Command, based in Panama.
The slain newspaper executives were Marta Luz Lopez, administrator of the paper's Medellin office, and Miguel Soler, the circulation manager there.
The El Espectador publisher, Guillermo Cano, was assassinated by drug traffickers on Dec. 17, 1986.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Presidents Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia, left, Alan Garcia of Peru, center, and Virgilio Barco Vargas of Colombia after meeting in Ica, Peru. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); COLOMBIA (96%); BOLIVIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: BELGIAN AMERICAN RADIO CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; PERU; COLOMBIA; BOLIVIA

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; COCAINE COCAINE (93%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); SHOOTINGS (86%); ASSASSINATION (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); CARTELS (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GARCIA, ALAN (PRES); BARCO VARGAS, VIRGILIO (PRES); PAZ ZAMORA, JAIME (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



273 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: JUDGE REJECTS BAN ON NASA LAUNCHING

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
A Federal district judge this evening denied a motion by environmentalists to delay the launching of the space shuttle Atlantis on Thursday because of concerns over a nuclear power supply.
Nevertheless the launching could be delayed for days because of a potential engine problem. Engineers at Cape Canaveral, Fla., uncovered an apparent malfunction in one of three main rocket engines of the Atlantis. 
After hearing sharp debate over the possibility of plutonium peril from an accident, Judge Oliver Gasch ruled that the space agency had complied with environmental requirements and he refused to grant a temporary restraining order to block launching of the shuttle carrying the nuclear-powered space probe Galileo, which is targeted for Jupiter.
Judge Gasch said, ''This court will not substitute its own judgment regarding the merits of the proposed action for that of the government agencies.'' He said delaying the liftoff with a restraining order probably would cause the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to miss the launching window to Jupiter, which closes in mid-November. Such a delay would push the next available launching opportunity to 1991 and cost the nation an addition $164 million to maintain the $1.5 billion program until then, he said.
The plaintiffs said after the ruling that they would go back to Judge Gasch Wednesday seeking a judgment on another motion they filed for a preliminary injunction. If that move is denied, they will seek an emergency appeal to a higher court, said Jeremy Rifkin of the Foundation on Economic Trends, one of the groups.
In two hours of testimony, lawyers representing environmentalists charged that there is a high probability of an accident like the explosion on the space shuttle Challenger that could spread deadly plutonium. But Government lawyers vigorously denied that contention.
The lawsuit filed by three groups contends that NASA failed to follow environmental regulations and that the flight should be stopped because ''there is a very high probability of an accident'' that could spread deadly plutonium over central Florida.
 
Peril Described as Minute
Justice Department lawyers, arguing for the Government, said the likelihood of a plutonium release was very small. Even if such an accident occurred, they said, tests indicate that radiation would be contained by protective casings around nuclear fuel elements in the Galileo spacecraft.
Shuttle officials must decide on Wednesday morning whether to continue with the countdown, looking to a launching Thursday afternoon, or to replace an electronic control unit in the suspect engine.
 
Technological Outlook
Replacing the control unit could cause a one-week delay, said Capt. Robert Crippen of the Navy, who is deputy director of the space shuttle program for NASA.
Byron Wood, manager of the shuttle engine project at Rocketdyne, a division of the Rockwell International Corporation, said the malfunction occurred Monday night while the three engine systems were undergoing routine preflight tests.
At the court hearing, Edward Lee Rogers - representing the Florida Coalition for Peace and Justice, the Christic Institute and the Foundation on Economic Trends - said NASA failed to consider alternative times and launching vehicles for flying Galileo, as well as different types of power.

GRAPHIC: A legal manuever to prevent the launching of the space shuttle Atlantis was thwarted, but a problem with a rocket engine delayed the liftoff of the orbiter, which was being readied yesterday on a launching pad at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ROK (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); JUPITER (90%); 

COMPANY: ROCKWELL AUTOMATION INC (60%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (59%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA)

SUBJECT: ASTRONAUTICS; ATOMIC ENERGY; ATLANTIS (SPACE SHUTTLE); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; SPACE SHUTTLE SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (92%); JUDGES (92%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SPACE PROPULSION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); APPEALS COURTS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); TRENDS (64%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E JEREMY RIFKIN (54%); 



274 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Charleston Unemployment Rises After Storm, but Mayor Is Hopeful

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, S.C., Oct. 10

 BODY:
Hurricane Hugo put a lot of people out of work temporarily but should not cause long-term damage to Charleston's economy, Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. says.
Unemployment in South Carolina jumped from 4.5 percent to more than 16 percent after the hurricane, which struck Charleston on Sept. 21 and killed 25 people in the Carolinas.
The storm, which struck Puerto Rico and several Caribbean islands before reaching the United States mainland, did an estimated $4 billion to $5 billion damage in South Carolina and $725 million in North Carolina. 
In Charleston, which bore the brunt of the storm, unemployment is estimated at 10 percent, the Mayor said on Monday. But he predicted that the economic forces behind the city's most prosperous period in 100 years would help the economy recover quickly.
''Our goal is to have our tourism economy back to full steam as quickly as possible so that jobs that have been lost can be replaced,'' Mr. Riley said.
Growth will continue, he said, as thousands of people migrate to the area to retire or work in the beach resorts.
''Charleston was booming more than it had in 100 years,'' he said, ''and the reasons for that boom have not changed.''
The Rev. Jesse Jackson suggested that unemployed youths be given Federal job training so they can help rebuild the region.
''The silver lining in the cloud is the chance to train and retrain people,'' Mr. Jackson said Monday in Greenville, S.C.
Mr. Jackson said he met last week with Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole, who he said was receptive to the proposal.
At the urging of Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr,, a Federally organized program was set up last month to provide temporary jobs for the unemployed removing debris, but while more than 3,300 jobs are available, only a few hundred people have signed up for them.
About 250 engineers and soldiers from Fort Stewart, Ga., arrived on Monday to help remove debris in Charleston and Berkeley and Dorchester counties. They brought 13 front-end loaders and 40 dump trucks.
Mr. Riley said he hoped that much of the debris could be cleared in two weeks, although Army officials were not as optimistic.
''We could have people cleaning up for the next six months,'' said Lieut. Col. Jim Scott, district engineer for the Charleston District of the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
Streets throughout the region are still littered with piles of leaves, limbs and logs cut from felled trees.
Refrigerators and other appliances are piled up along the streets in low-lying areas and islands that were flooded in the storm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HURRICANE HUGO

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (95%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHARLESTON (SC)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS TROPICAL STORMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (85%); WEATHER (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); RESORTS (72%); BEACHES (68%); TRENDS (67%); ARMED FORCES (61%); ENGINEERING (61%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: RILEY, JOSEPH P JR (MAYOR) JESSE JACKSON (69%); ELIZABETH DOLE (55%); 



275 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Abortion Foes Lose Plea for Hearing on Their Racketeering Law Penalties

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
The Supreme Court today let stand a lower court's ruling that found a group of abortion protesters liable under the Federal racketeering law for damages to a Philadelphia abortion clinic they tried to drive out of business.
Because the Court did not rule on the merits of the case, instead refusing to review a decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Philadelphia, the decision has no formal effect outside Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware. But the Court will have more opportunities to consider the issue of whether abortion protesters should be subject to the stern civil penalties of the racketeering laws when a dozen similar lawsuits now in the Federal courts reach the appellate level.
The decision today leaves in place a decision in March in which the appeals court upheld a jury verdict. The verdict ordered 26 members of the Pro-Life Coalition of Southeastern Pennsylvania to pay $108,000 to the Northeast Women's Center, a Philadelphia abortion clinic that had been the focus of the group's protests since its opening in 1976. 
 
Nine Years of Picketing
As often as three days a week for nine years, anti-abortion demonstrators had picketed the clinic, trying to block access and dissuade patients from entering. The clinic was eventually forced to move after it lost its lease.
The clinic filed suit under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. The law, intended to aid Federal prosecutions of organized crime, also permits private damage suits against those who conduct an ''enterprise'' through a ''pattern of racketeering activity.'' Successful plaintiffs can win triple damages plus their legal fees.
The clinic's lawsuit focused on four incidents in 1985 and 1986 in which the protesters had forced their way into the building to conduct sit-ins. As a result of those incidents, the protesters were convicted in state court on charges of trespass, criminal conspiracy and disorderly conduct. The Court of Appeals found that the protesters' behavior amounted to extortion, a Federal offense that was an appropriate basis for a suit under the racketeering law.
The protesters' Supreme Court appeal, McMonagle v. Northeast Women's Center, No. 88-2137, was prepared by G. Robert Blakey, a law professor at Notre Dame Law School who helped to draft the racketeering law when he was a Senate staff member and who has often argued for new and expansive uses of the statute. In the appeal, he argued that the law, usually known as RICO, was not intended to be used against an organization that did not have a profit motive. He also argued that the protesters should not be penalized for engaging ''in a prolonged struggle to bring about political and social change by exercise of their First Amendment rights.''
 
Brief Dissent by White
Only one Supreme Court Justice, Byron R. White, voted to hear the appeal. In a brief dissenting statement, Justice White said the Court should have taken the case to resolve a conflict among the Federal appellate circuits over whether RICO liability can be found ''despite the absence of any economic motivation on the part of the defendants.''
The Supreme Court does not give reasons for refusing to hear a case. Typically, however, the Court does not take up a legal issue until it has been addressed by several appellate courts. The fact that no other racketeering suit against abortion protesters has yet even gone to trial made the Philadelphia case an unlikely candidate for Supreme Court review.
Abortion rights groups have vowed to use the racketeering law aggressively against those who try to disrupt abortion clinics. But those groups are not the only ones interested in that legal strategy. Earlier this year, the town of Brookline, Mass., brought a similar suit against Operation Rescue, the most active of the groups that protest in front of abortion clinics. The suit seeks recovery of the overtime that the town has had to pay its police force to protect local clinics.
Other action at the Court today included the following:
 
Death Penalty
There were several developments today concerning the death penalty. In the case with the broadest potential implications, the Court agreed to hear the State of Arizona's appeal of a Federal appellate ruling that overturned an Arizona murderer's death sentence.
In the drug-related killing, a man injected a woman with an overdose of heroin and then choked and beat her when she did not die immediately. The state courts upheld the death sentence on a finding that the murder was ''especially heinous and depraved'' as specified by Arizona's death penalty law.
But the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which is based in San Francisco and includes Arizona, overturned the sentence on the ground that while the killing was a ''grisly affair,'' it was not particularly shocking compared with other Arizona murders in which the death sentence had not been imposed. The appeals court was ruling on the murderer's petition for a writ of habeas corpus, which is a challenge to the constitutionality of a sentence and is the principle avenue of Federal court review of state criminal systems.
In its Supreme Court appeal, Ricketts v. Jeffers, No. 89-189, the state is arguing that a Federal court, when ruling on a death row inmate's petition for a writ of habeas corpus, should be required to show greater deference to the findings of the state courts. If the Supreme Court accepts this argument, the jurisdiction of Federal courts when considering such petitions could be substantially circumscribed.
The Court's ruling in June in the case of Johnny Paul Penry, a retarded death row inmate in Texas, formed the basis for two other actions today. In the Penry case, the Court ruled that while the Constitution does not bar the execution of mentally retarded murderers, it does require a jury to consider a defendant's mental limitations before imposing sentence.
Today the Court overturned a death sentence of another Texas murderer whose request to instruct the jury that he had been ''impaired as a result of voluntary intoxication'' was refused by the judge. The Court ordered the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals to reconsider the case in light of the Penry ruling. (James v. Texas, No. 89-5484.) And the Court agreed to hear an appeal by still another Texas death row inmate whose lawyers had not presented evidence of his paranoid schizophrenia at his 1980 murder trial. The issue in the case, Selvage v. Lynaugh, No. 87-6700, is whether the Penry decision is to be applied retroactively, and under what circumstances.
 
Search Warrants
The Court agreed to decide when the police may, in the course of conducting a search, seize evidence that is in plain view but that has not been listed in the search warrant. The scope of what is known as the ''plain view exception'' to the search warrant requirement has been a troublesome question in criminal law for years.
After an ambiguous 1971 Supreme Court ruling, most lower courts have held that the police must have come upon the unlisted evidence ''inadvertently'' for the seizure to meet constitutional requirements. In the case the Court accepted today, Horton v. California, No. 88-7164, the California Court of Appeal rejected the ''inadvertent discovery'' approach. The California court found no constitutional violation in the seizure of guns when the police entered a robbery suspect's home with a search warrant that specified only stolen jewelry.
 
Wiretap Evidence
The Court agreed to hear a Justice Department appeal growing out of the 1983 robbery of the Wells Fargo depot in West Hartford, Conn. Twenty members of a Puerto Rican group, Los Macheteros, have been charged with the $7.2 million robbery in a case that has not yet gone to trial.
After a long pretrial proceeding, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, ruled earlier this year that the Federal Government could not use a number of wiretaps as evidence because the Government had not acted quickly enough to have a judge seal the tapes as protection against tampering. In its Supreme Court appeal, U.S. v. Rios, No. 89-61, the Government is arguing that while the delay of several months was a mistake, the court order barring use of the tapes as evidence was not justified in the absence of any evidence that the tapes had been altered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS ACT (RICO)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILADELPHIA (PA)

SUBJECT: ABORTION; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS ABORTION (96%); DAMAGES (90%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); APPEALS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); EXTORTION (78%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LAWYERS (75%); STRIKES (73%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA



276 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: They Aren't Fleeing Hungary

 BODY:
Why are thousands of East Germans taking to the streets and thousands more running from home? Why are Hungarians doing neither? The explanation has less to do with economics than with everything else.
The standard of living is similar in both countries. But Hungary has now begun to persuade its people that they will soon have a chance to govern themselves, giving the disgruntled an opportunity to change things. 
In Budapest over the weekend, the ruling Communist Party voted to junk orthodox Marxism, change its name to the Hungarian Socialist Party and submit itself to popular judgment in contested elections.
In East Germany, meantime, with the whole world and Mikhail Gorbachev watching, an ossified Communist regime observed its 40th anniversary by turning riot sticks on the workers it purports to represent. Protesters chanting ''Gorby! Gorby!'' and ''We need freedom!'' completed the debacle for a Government already stunned by the flight of 45,000 mostly young people.
The Bush Administration, properly, responds to these dramatic developments in undramatic, nonprovocative ways. Mr. Gorbachev can't afford the luxury of such detachment. Moscow's contradictory needs for stability and change challenge even his extraordinary political skills.
Nobody can predict the outcome of Budapest's remarkable political experiment, but one salutary result is already evident - the only mass exodus from Hungary is the throng of weekend shoppers moving across open frontiers to Austria. True enough, Hungarians who might consider leaving have nothing like the temptations open to East Germans: automatic citizenship in a flourishing West Germany sharing a common language. Even so, a regime in Budapest willing to risk elections can bank on a very different popular response than can the tired, stodgy rulers of East Germany.
Faced with the worst crisis in his tenure as party leader, the 77-year-old Erich Honecker castigates ''imperialists'' for trying to destabilize East Germany and ''slander'' its achievements, thereby emulating Don Quixote's ''futile running against the steadily turning sails of a windmill.''
Mr. Honecker's words, in the apt vernacular, are off the wall. The gusts unsettling East Germany blow from Moscow, not Washington or Bonn. Far from stirring up trouble, capitalist West Germany lavishes billions in subsidies on East Germany to make life easier for kith and kin. Tellingly, Mr. Honecker complains about Bonn's treating all Germans as common citizens, but does not complain about Bonn's giving Common Market privileges to his country's exports.
In fact, tens of thousands of East Germans want changes, not exit permits. They want to be treated, finally, as grown-ups. They want the right to travel, to have greater access to non-Communist publications, to belong to true opposition parties. They want what has already been won in the Soviet Union, Poland and Hungary.
The fleeing East Germans mainly embarrass Mr. Honecker. What truly challenges and threatens his regime is stubborn East Germans shouting ''We're staying here!''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (98%); GERMANY (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY; EAST GERMANY; EUROPE, EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS LIVING STANDARDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); TRENDS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); REFUGEES (63%); LIBEL & SLANDER (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (54%); CITIZENSHIP (53%); 

PERSON: MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (70%); 



277 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: A Welcome Shift on Child Care

 BODY:
''A witches' brew'' is what Representative Thomas Downey calls the upcoming Senate-House conference on Federal support for child care. He's not far off the mark. There are conflicts not only between the House and Senate but within the House itself, which endorsed a legislative package last week that is roughly parallel to the Senate's Act for Better Child Care Services. Even so, it's possible the brew can produce a palatable child care bill before the end of the year. 
The original A.B.C. bill, sponsored by Senator Christopher Dodd, proposed $2.5 billion a year to help states provide child care for lower-income working families. The states would match 20 percent of the Federal money. That original bill would also have established a commission to set national standards for day care centers and personnel. George Bush, then running for President, soon weighed in with a Republican initiative: a ''children's tax credit'' that would have given poor working parents $1,000 per year per child.
Since then the Democrats and Republicans have been competing with one another to expand or further refine this package of benefits. Legislation now in both houses is a combination of expanded tax credits and Federal grants far more complicated than Senator Dodd's initial proposal, and far more costly and comprehensive than anything President Bush had in mind.
The Senate's $3.5 billion package would provide expanded tax credits and grants directly to families and help states increase the supply of day care providers and establish standards for them. The new House version is similar though somewhat costlier, but contains a conspicuous contradiction: unable to mesh a proposal for direct appropriations to states and one for block grants, the House approved both.
In addition to resolving these differences, Congress still needs to address a lingering church-state issue. Millions of working parents depend on church-sponsored day care, but resistance to any form of public funding of sectarian child care programs is widespread.
Despite these complexities, there is every reason to hope that the final result will give lower-income working families access to safe, decent child care and boost them a little higher up the economic ladder. Indeed, the legislation already must be counted as evidence of a remarkable and wonderfully welcome change in America's politics and priorities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AB C COMMUNICATIONS CORP (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; FEDERAL AID (US) LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); FAMILY (89%); PARENTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); CHURCH & STATE (67%); RELIGION (62%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 



278 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Reaganism Now Liability For Giuliani

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
When Ronald Reagan became President in 1981, Rudolph W. Giuliani went to Washington as a top official in the Justice Department and vigorously pursued the new administration's policies.
Now, Mr. Giuliani's opponent for mayor of New York City has tried to make Mr. Giuliani's role in a conservative Republican administration in Washington a campaign issue in a Democratic city that twice rejected Mr. Reagan by large margins.
David N. Dinkins, the Democratic candidate, has depicted Mr. Giuliani, former United States Attorney in Manhattan, as a loyal Reagan Republican who carried out the President's agenda that ''was painful to our city and our urban centers.''
At the same time, Mr. Giuliani has tried to distance himself from the conservative Administration, pointing to occasions when he dissented from its policies and portraying himself as the candidate of a nonpartisan reform movement.
 
No Direct Policy Role
The record shows that Mr. Giuliani, while occasionally dissenting, was more often an aggressive spokesman for the administration on some matters ranging from social policy to criminal law. He was charged with implementing the administration's policy of detaining Haitian refugees seeking political asylum, and he pushed a plan to limit use of the insanity defense. 
But there is no evidence that Mr. Giuliani had any direct role in broader Reagan Administration policies, as Mr. Dinkins has contended - for example, in the cutting of the Federal housing budget from $31 billion to $7 billion a year.
Asked for an interview to review that record, Mr. Giuliani declined. Charles Perkins, a campaign spokesman, said that Mr. Giuliani wanted to concentrate on issues affecting New York City's future.
''The problems of our city are beyond partisian politics,'' Mr. Giuliani told a recent luncheon meeting of the Mortgage Bankers Association.
But in his primary campaign, Mr. Giuliani noted frequently that he was supported by the liberal wing of the Republican Party and maintained that he never embraced Mr. Reagan's broad conservative agenda.
On one occasion his campaign staff released a copy of a letter he wrote in June 1984, as United States Attorney in Manhattan, in which he appeared to oppose efforts by the Administration to improperly deny Social Security disability benefits to some recipients.
 
Prosecuted Meese Associates
Mr. Giuliani has also noted that as United States Attorney, he prosecuted two men who were close to former Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d - his financial adviser and a close friend -in the bribery case involving the Wedtech Corporation, a now-defunct Bronx defense contractor that was treated favorably by the Reagan Administration.
Beginning in 1975, when Mr. Giuliani was appointed to a Justice Department post in the Administration of Gerald R. Ford, until this year, when he resigned as United States Attorney, Mr. Giuliani's Government career closely followed the fortunes of the Republican Party. When Democrats recaptured the White House in 1976, he returned to New York and practiced law.
In 1981, Mr. Giuliani joined the Reagan Administration as an associate Attorney General, the third-ranking post in the Justice Department. In that job he directly oversaw much of the Federal Government's law-enforcement and immigration activities.
 
Angered Reagan Officials
Mr. Giuliani pressed for passage of the Criminal Justice Reform Act of 1982, which would have sharply reduced the rights of defendants, including virtually eliminating the insanity defense. To plead insanity under the bill, he said at the time, a suspect would have had to have ''the mental age of a 2-year-old'' or have been ''so paranoid'' that he believed he was was ''shooting at a house, instead of a human being.'' The measure was not adopted.
In 1983, when President Reagan vetoed legislation setting up a Cabinent-level post of drug czar, Mr. Giuliani took a leading role in explaining the veto. He said the measure would have led to ''conflict and confusion'' and was opposed by ''all law-enforcement agencies that have drug responsibilty.'' But Mr. Reagan signed legislation with a similar provision in 1988.
When Congress, at the request of many police officials, considered a broad ban on handgun bullets capable of piercing bulletproof vests, Mr. Giuliani - though personally supportive of the measure - pointed out flaws in the bill and laid out the Administration's case for a weaker alternative more acceptable to gun lobbyists.
But he angered some Administration officials when he added a single sentence to his testimony in which he urged Congress to pass the bill. A similar measure was passed several years later, after gun groups softened their opposition.
 
Opposed Haitian Political Asylum
While the mantle of Reagan Republicanism has been worn proudly by many candidates across the country, it is an ill-fitting garment for candidates in New York City.
After decades of declining Republican enrollment, Democrats in the city now outnumber Republicans five to one. In the last two Presidential elections, the Democratic candidate has carried the city handily.
Mr. Giuliani's role in opposing political asylum for most refugees from Haiti is not likely to help in a city in which many New Yorkers are either black or immigrants or their offspring.
At the time, the Administration discouraged the immigration of Haitians seeking political asylum in Florida because of concerns by Florida officials that they were being overwhelmed by thousands of immigrants.
As a result of the policy, thousands of Haitian refugees were kept in overcrowded detention centers, some for more than 18 months.
Testifying in a lawsuit challenging the policy in April 1982, Mr. Giuliani argued that the refugees were seeking economic opportunity, not fleeing political oppression. He said, ''There is not a problem, a major problem, a systematic problem of political repression in Haiti.''
 
Sensitivity Questioned
His testimony - offered after he had visited Haiti for two days and reviewed State Department reports - came as human rights groups protested the arrests of journalists and opponents of the Haitian Government.
''He was involved in a brutal program that singled out Haitian refugees,'' said Arthur Helton of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, the group that sued the Government over the immigration policy. ''It has implications for his ability to be sensitive to the diverse communities in New York City.''
Mr. Giuliani has said in his mayoral campaign that the detention policy was needed because of an ''emergency situation'' in Florida. Once the emergency abated, he said, he argued privately within the Administration to limit how long immigrants were detained.
Mr. Perkins, the campaign spokesman, said that in his testimony, Mr. Giuliani clearly acknowledged that there were some valid claims of political repression in Haiti and that he was arguing that some refugees left Haiti for other reasons. Mr. Perkins said Mr. Giuliani's views on political repression in Haiti were based on State Department reports.
In a forum on immigration issues earlier this year, Mr. Giuliani said he opposed, in most instances, the detention of aliens seeking political asylum. He also said he favored wider amnesty for illegal aliens and he pledged to continue to provide city services to them.
 
Called Bork 'Fully Qualified'
While in Washington in 1981, Mr. Giuliani also intervened to drop charges against four top executives of the McDonnell Douglas Corporation in a major overseas bribery case that had been vigorously pursued during the Carter Administration.
Mr. Giuliani, who had just taken office in an Administration that promised to be more pro-business, said later that he ordered the settlement because the Government laywers were ''prejudiced against business.'' The case was settled, over the objections of the five Government lawyers handling the case, with a fine against the company.
Mr. Dinkins has also sought to link Mr. Giuliani to Mr. Reagan through the confirmation fight over the United States Supreme Court nomination of Robert H. Bork, a conservative judge who was rejected by the Senate following heated objections from liberals.
When asked if Mr. Giuliani had in fact supported Mr. Bork, Kenneth Caruso, a deputy campaign manager, said it would have been inappropriate for Mr. Giuliani, as a United States Attorney, to comment.
But in an Associated Press dispatch in 1987, when Mr. Giuliani was considering running as a Republican candidate for Senate, he was quoted as saying that Mr. Bork was ''fully qualified'' to be on the Supreme Court.
Asked about the interview, Mr. Perkins said Mr. Giuliani's comment was not an endorsement of Mr. Bork, but merely a comment on his qualifications.

GRAPHIC: photo of Rudolph W. Giuliani (NYT/Ruby Washington) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: WEDTECH CORP (61%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LAWYERS (89%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); INSANITY DEFENSE (70%); BUDGETS (69%); CRIMINAL LAW (67%); BRIBERY (67%); REFUGEES (67%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (64%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (62%); MORTGAGE BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; BARBANEL, JOSH RUDY GIULIANI (93%); RONALD REAGAN (93%); 



279 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Vital New York Taxes Lag, and Economy Is Blamed

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEVINE

 BODY:
Revenue from several of New York City's most important taxes lagged well behind expectations in the last three months and, in some cases, dropped sharply from the same period last year, budget officials say.
The slumping revenues deepen concern about the city's ability to deliver promised services this year without raising taxes. The figures bolster the case of those who say the city needs the $247 million it has budgeted from the huge Columbus Center redevelopment project, which faces a legal challenge.
Officials also fear that the poor performance of the taxes foreshadows more serious and widespread problems for the city economy.
Collections from the general-corporation tax declined 17 percent, to their 1985 level, in the first quarter of the fiscal year that began in July, the budget officials said. The mortgage-recording and real-property transfer taxes plunged 25 percent, compared with the same period last year, and sales-tax receipts failed to match inflation, growing by less than 5 percent, the weakest rate since 1986. These taxes are seen as the most sensitive to changes in economic conditions. 
Although money withheld from paychecks under the personal-income tax rose, by slightly more than the 12 percent officials had expected, the city is facing a shortfall, three months into its fiscal year, of $166 million in taxes that are sensitive to economic conditions.
Although seasonal variations complicate projections, officials regard tax collections in the first quarter of the fiscal year as the best early picture of revenues for the year, especially for the corporation tax. First-quarter tax revenues were also below projections last year, but by less than half of this year's shortfall, and some of the gap was thought to stem from technical factors like changes in tax laws.
In contrast, officials said they believed the slumping revenues this year were a sign of a stagnant local economy that is unlikely to improve soon.
In a plan revising the $27 billion budget, which is expected to be issued in a few weeks, the Koch administration is expected to project that the city will end the fiscal year in June with $217 million less than it had expected from taxes that are sensitive to economic conditions. Property-tax revenue, which is more stable, is off too. But officials expect those collections to improve.
''We are going to take down our estimates,'' Mayor Edward I. Koch said in an interview last week. ''We are not going to wait.''
Mr. Koch said that by acting now, rather than holding off until the end of his term on Dec. 31, he was leaving his successor ''in a better position.'' Still, it seems likely the next mayor will have to cope with difficult budgets for several years, because the city is already being called on to increase spending for social services and its justice system.
The revenue shortfall is increasing the pressure on Mr. Koch and the man he hopes will succeed him, Manhattan Borough President David N. Dinkins, to help resolve the legal challenge to the Columbus Center project. In response to the latest suit over the plans to build a twin-tower office and apartment complex on the site of the New York Coliseum, opposite the southwestern corner of Central Park, and to earlier estimates of sluggish tax revenues, the Koch administration instituted a partial hiring freeze last month.
 
Manual on Layoffs
The Mayor indicated his strategy for the remainder of his tenure would be to make further cuts in this year's spending, citing what he said was a preliminary figure of $75 million. If the Coliseum project cannot move forward this year, Mr. Koch said, he would ask the City Council for a property-tax increase, and if it is rejected, the city would be forced to lay off municipal workers to balance the budget.
The administration is to distribute a manual today to the heads of agencies advising them of the procedures to follow should layoffs begin.
The sluggish performance of the taxes also has gloomy implications for the city and its economy over a longer term, officials said. An analysis by the Office of Management and Budget said, ''It is not unusual in an economic slowdown to see retail sales growth and corporate profitability decline first and for output, employment and personal income to decline later.''
''If you're asking if we are in a recession, you would have to say no,'' Budget Director Paul Dickstein said. ''On the other hand, if the business taxes are a harbinger of what's to come, if you ask that same question in six months, you might get a different answer.''
 
'It Isn't Unique to Us'
The city still expects revenues from taxes that are sensitive to economic conditions to grow at rate of 6.9 percent this year, largely because of the strength of the personal-income tax. It had been projecting a growth rate of 10.8 percent for those taxes, some of which were broadened this year.
Officials said the slump was also being felt in the region, as other governments adjusted to lower growth.
''The city has been the first to observe what has been the likely slowing of the economy that everyone is talking about,'' a deputy budget director, Allen Proctor, said. ''It isn't unique to us. It's a New Jersey and a Connecticut and a Federal issue.''
The regional commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, said he believed New York City was experiencing a ''a much sharper fall.'' He said that the finance industry was ''now a source of weakness,'' that business and professional services were ''also kind of flat'' and that tourism was off, as well.
 
Slimmer Profits Than Predictedt
''New York City's key growth engines have lost steam or gone into reverse,'' he said.
In any event, officials thought this year would be better, based on the prospect of higher inflation, which helps governments, at least temporarily, and more optimistic estimates from businesses, including retailers.
Mr. Proctor said he believed corporations were reporting slimmer profits than anticipated and were making lower tax payments as a result. Consumer activity is also down, accounting for weakness in the sales tax. And sales of commercial and residential real estate declined more than 25 percent last summer from 1988.
The receipts from the property tax, the city's most lucrative levy, also fell short of projections by $43 million in the first quarter. But officials are confident some of that money will be recovered before the fiscal year ends.
 
'Irresistible Expenditure Needs'
The rise in the stock market may enable the administration to reduce contributions again to the municipal employees' pension funds, though that is likely to save just a small part of the $300 million the city saved last year in a similar adjustment. The administration is also said to be considering refinancing some bonds.
Service reductions seem probable in areas like street cleaning and repair and parks maintenance. Mr. Dickstein said it would be ''very tough'' to make large cuts at a time there appeared to be ''irresistible expenditure needs.'' He cited spending for AIDS and other health costs, as well as for crime and drug abuse.
This year's budget includes money for 2,000 additional police officers, and in his unsuccessful re-election campaign, Mr. Koch also advocated a tax increase to hire a further 4,000 officers. Speaking of the 2,000 officers, Mr. Koch said, ''The police class is the last to go.'' But he said efforts to hire the additional 4,000 officers were ''out the window until this problem is solved.''
A midyear tax increase would be the first since 1980, Mr. Dickstein said. A property-tax increase of the size envisioned by the Koch adminisration might cost the average homeowner an additional $50 a year.
Budget officials said they were concerned about the effect of raising taxes on business income amid economic malaise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC); MANHATTAN (NYC)

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; TAXATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); SALES TAX (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); TAX LAW (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); STATISTICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR); LEVINE, RICHARD; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES)



280 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Finance Law Evens Odds in Jersey Contest

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 10

 BODY:
With less than a month to go before the Nov. 7 election, the candidates for governor have reached or are close to reaching the limit on campaign contributions set by New Jersey's public-financing law.
But Republican leaders say their candidate, Representative Jim Courter, would be in big trouble if contributions - and spending - were not limited by law.
According to reports filed today with the state, Mr. Courter has raised $1.56 million of the $1.7 million in private contributions allowed under the public-financing law. Each private dollar is matched by two dollars from the state, to a maximum $3.3 million in public money and a total of $5 million. The New Jersey Election Law Enforcement Commission, which administers the state's public-financing laws, today approved $214,200 more in public funds for Mr. Courter, bringing his total in public funds to $3.1 million. 
 
Easily Reached the Maximum
Mr. Courter has had trouble raising the money. Republican contributors had been drained by five major candidates in the party primary that he won in June, and last month he suspended his own fund raising to aid the party's efforts. But he has said he expects to reach the maximum soon.
His Democratic opponent, Representative James J. Florio, easily reached the maximum by Aug. 21, collecting $1.7 million in 2,617 separate contributions.
Fund raising has gone so well among Democrats that since August the state committee has continued collecting contributions in what may turn out to be record fashion. Party leaders have said the amount could exceed $5 million. The money cannot be spent by Mr. Florio, but it will be used to help legislative candidates and for general television advertising about party policies that does not mention candidates by name.
The campaign-financing law, first adopted in 1974, has changed the way campaigns in New Jersey are run. Because spending is capped at $5 million, Mr. Florio's early advantage in raising money was neutralized, allowing Republicans to breathe easier knowing that they only had to catch him at that level.
Instead of becoming anxious about raising money, the Republicans have been able to concentrate on the campaign and on events like Wednesday night's televised debate, which will be broadcast at 7 P.M. on Channel 7, WABC, in New York and Channel 6, WPVI, in Philadelphia.
The four public television stations of the New Jersey Network will rebroadcast the debate at 11:30.
''If this was a non-capped race we'd have a serious, serious problem right now,'' said Kenneth Connolly, Mr. Courter's campaign manager. ''The money is just flowing to Florio.''
Emma N. Byrne, executive director of the State Democratic Committee, said that the party had to file a report with the New Jersey Election Law Enforcment Commission today detailing how much money it has raised. Mrs. Byrne would not confirm a figure, but she said the money was rolling in.
''It will be the largest single report ever filed in the history of the compliance commission,'' Mrs. Byrne said. The actual figures will not be made public until Thursday.
Party leaders are deciding now whether to use any of the money to pay off a debt of close to $300,000 that stems in part from Mr. Florio's 1981 loss to Gov. Thomas H. Kean.
The law limits individual contributions to $1,500. A computer list of contributors reveals that both candidates have relied on out-of-state donors, party regulars and a few celebrities.
Mr. Florio, who represents the First Congressional District in southern New Jersey, accepted more than 45 contributions from businesses and individuals in Philadelphia, just across the Delaware River from Camden.
One of those contributions, for $1,000, came from Local 30-30B of the Composition Roofers Union, whose leaders were convicted in 1987 of racketeering, bribery and extortion.
 
A Trustee Takes Over
Earlier contributions to Mr. Florio's Congressional re-election campaigns from the same union have been highlighted in a television commercial by Mr. Courter. The ads linked Mr. Florio to the convicted union leaders and, it was implied, to organized crime.
At the time the ads first ran, Mr. Florio said he had not accepted contributions from the union after its leaders were indicted in 1986 and before the union was taken over by a court appointed trustee in 1988.
On July 15, the union's political action and education fund made a $1,000 contribution that Mr. Florio submitted to the commission as part of his private fund-raising efforts. Jon Shure, Mr. Florio's spokesman, said the current contribution ''was not the least bit troubling because the union is under the authority of a Federal court.''
 
From American Samoa
A spokesman for Mr. Courter declined to comment on the union's contribution to Mr. Florio.
State records show that both candidates ranged wide in raising money. On June 28, Mr. Florio accepted $1,500 from someone named Sun Ho Hwang who is listed as living in Pago Pago in American Samoa.
Armand Hammer, the industrialist, donated $500 and Vincent Tese, the New York state economic development commissioner, gave $1,000. Howard Rubenstein, a public relations executive, made a $1,000 contribution.
Mr. Florio also accepted $1,500 contributions from Arthur Imperatore, a trucking executive and waterfront developer, and Joseph Barry, a developer in Hoboken.
 
Half the Contributions
According to the state records, Mr. Courter has received about half the individual contributions Mr. Florio has, a total of 1,565 to Mr. Florio's 2,617. A single family, that of Fletcher Creamer of Hackensack, contributed $13,500, making nine individual contributions of $1,500 a piece from either members of the family or different components of J. Fletcher Creamer & Son Inc., a construction company that has done extensive work for the state.
The family of Ralph Loveys, a former assemblyman and now chairman of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority, gave Mr. Courter $5,000 and William H. Tremayne, chairman of the New Jersey Highway Authority, which runs the Garden State Parkway, donated $1,500.
Chuck Leitgeb, a spokesman for Mr. Courter, said the officials are Republicans and ''it's not strange for members of the party to attend fund-raisers.
''It doesn't mean that Jim Courter is not going to act in the best interest of the people,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ELECTIONS, PUBLIC FINANCING OF; LEGISLATURES; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); APPROVALS (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR); COURTER, JAMES A (REPR); DEPALMA, ANTHONY JAMES A COURTER (91%); 



281 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Critics Accuse Cuomo Of Budget Double Talk

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 10

 BODY:
In the face of tremendous fiscal problems, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo this year proposed the tightest state spending plan in a decade and reproached many of his critics for demanding more money. ''I would put the emphasis on tighter management and spending discipline,'' he said.
But Mr. Cuomo bristles when President Bush, invoking a similar theme in the face of demands by the states for Federal money, calls for Governors to do more with less.
''You cannot do it with nice words like efficiency,'' Mr. Cuomo said recently in deriding Mr. Bush's plans for education and the fight against drugs. ''It takes more resources.'' 'A Two-Edged Sword' 
While most legislators in Albany hardly fault the Governor for trying to get more money from the Federal Government, some of his conservative critics chide him for preaching thrift at home but lambasting the idea when restraint is asked of him.
Even some of Mr. Cuomo's supporters suggest that his strong statements on the national scene recently may complicate his work on next year's budget, especially if he renews his pleas for discipline and restraint.
''It's kind of a two-edged sword,'' said Saul Weprin, the Queens Democrat who heads the Assembly's Ways and Means Committee. ''Some of his critics, when they come for more money next year, may try to throw the Governor's words back at him.''
At a conference of governors in Virginia called by President Bush in September to discuss education, Mr. Cuomo was one of the few to rebuke the President publicly on his appeal for fiscal restraint.
''If we want to catch up, we're going to have to spend more,'' Mr. Cuomo told reporters in Virginia. He was also sharply critical of the President's drug plan, suggesting that Mr. Bush had declared a war but was trying to make the states pay for the bullets.
 
Inconsistency Charged
State Senator Dean G. Skelos, a Nassau County Republican and an ally of the State Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, said he believed the Governor was being ''inconsistent.'' The President, he said, is only ''asking for the same thing that Mario Cuomo wants people to do at the state level.''
The Governor denies any inconsistency. He maintains that New York State's budget constraints stem largely from the Federal Government's reluctance to help the states deal with homelessness, drugs, crime, AIDS and other growing problems.
Federal grants accounted for 24 percent of New York State's operating budget last year, down from 27 percent in the early 1980's, according to figures compiled by the Governor's budget office.
Still, even some of the Governor's traditional allies say his remarks about the Federal budget have only underscored their contention that another year of what they term tight-fisted state spending could be devastating.
After five years in which the general funds state budget increased by an annual average of 8.5 percent, the increase was held this year to 5.3 percent, the lowest percentage rise in 10 years. The general funds budget represents most of the money that the state gets from taxes and fees.
Barry Feinstein, president of Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and chairman of the New York State Public Employee Conference, representing more than a million state and municipal workers in New York, said he believed Mr. Cuomo's recent comments about the Federal budget also applied to the state's obligations to its citizens.
''The kinds of things he said at the education conference are going to be used by me, and I'm sure by others, to help make sure we have a budget that will not do damage to the fabric of our economy,'' he said.
The Governor frequently asserts that part of the problem at the Federal level is how the Government spends it money and that changing this does not necessarily mean raising taxes. Rather, he said in Virginia, some of the billions spent this year by the Federal Government on ''banks'' - a reference to the bailout of the savings and loan industry - and on ''bombers'' should go to schools and to fight drugs.
Neverthelesss the Governor does not dismiss the notion that Federal taxes may have to be raised.
Some of the groups affected by Mr. Cuomo's own budget plan may challenge his contention that with more prudence, they can spare themselves pain. Administrators at the State University of New York, for instance, who are projecting an increase of at least 8 percent in their $1.4 billion budget next year, may wind up citing the Governor's own words to bolster their case.
''You can't build a University of Virginia with a speech,'' the Governor said at the summit in Virginia. ''You know it takes bricks, and that means dollars and cents.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US) GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); DRUG POLICY (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



282 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Ties Racial Harmony to Strong Economy

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

 BODY:
Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday the poor ''will suffer the most'' without a strong city economy, as his mayoral campaign continued its strategy of making a policy statement each day.
Mr. Giuliani warned of continuing unequal opportunities ''if New York City is weak and indecisive and unwilling to make the hard choices presented by a fiscal crisis.''
And, referring to poor black and Hispanic residents, he added, ''it will be impossible to achieve racial harmony unless we provide all New Yorkers with the services and opportunities they need to achieve their full potential.'' 
''To do that,'' he said, ''we must have a city that is economically vibrant, a city humming with business activity.'' He did not elaborate on the link between racial harmony and improved opportunities and services.
 
Handling Budget Deficit
Mr. Giuliani spoke at a news conference where he presented his ideas for handling a projected city budget deficit of at least $400 million.
His plan calls for a city hiring freeze, revising the way teachers' pension funds are invested, refinancing city bonds, and more aggressive recovery of unpaid taxes on incomes hidden by drug dealers and other workers in what he called ''the underground economy.''
He said a tax increase would ''absolutely be the last resort.''
Paul Dickstein, the city budget director, said the city had announced a hiring freeze two weeks ago. He said that Mr. Giuliani's proposal for reinvesting part of the teacher's pension fund would raise more revenue but would not offer budget relief for many years. He also called Mr. Giuliani's plan to refinance city bonds, which Mr. Giuliani said would provide $50 million, ''a reasonable thing to say.''
Mr. Giuliani said that his Democratic opponent, David N. Dinkins, had not offered any serious suggestions for handling the projected deficit.
 
Dinkins Names Four Advisers
''Where is David Dinkins on the issues of grave concern which I have addressed today?'' he asked.
But Mr. Dinkins said at a news conference yesterday that he would convene a council of fiscal advisers to recommend ways to deal with the deficit. He named four members who have agreed to serve on the council and said others will be appointed.
The four are Felix G. Rohatyn, a partner at the investment firm of Lazard Freres and chairman of the state Municipal Assistance Corporation; James D. Robinson 3d, chairman of American Express; Joseph H. Flom, a partner in the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom; and Reginald F. Lewis, chief executive officer of TLC Beatrice International.
Mr. Dinkins said he was not prepared to detail specific remedies for the deficit, saying he needs more information.
''I can give you some general answers, such as: I have no intention of increasing taxes,'' he said.
Mr. Giuliani was also pressed for specifics. He too said that further study was necessary and that he was not prepared to provide details until he had complete access to city records.
Asked if his new campaign strategy of highlighting an issue a day meant an end to his attacks on Mr. Dinkins, Mr. Giuliani flashed a tight smile.
''Wouldn't you consider this an attack?'' he asked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (81%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (51%); TLC BEATRICE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; RACIAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING RACE & RACISM (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); TAX LAW (71%); TAX INCREASES (71%); TRENDS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (63%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); TERRY, DON RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 



283 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
ABOUT EDUCATION

BYLINE: By Fred M. Hechinger

 BODY:
A standard criticism of the public school system is that, as a monopoly, it treats its customers - parents and their children - as captives. The remedy? Competition, a growing number of educators and politicians say. Letting parents choose their children's schools. This was one of President Bush's key proposals at the recent education summit.
Parental choice is both politically and educationally attractive: the idea of letting parents vote with their children's feet for or against particular schools unites liberals and conservatives in the belief that good schools will drive out bad ones. Not all educators agree. 
Ideology aside, many experts on children say that different types of schools succeed with different types of children. And for junior and senior high schools, these experts find merit in magnet schools that respond to students' special interests and talents in such areas as the arts, science, economics and literature.
In the past, the mention of choice raised the hackles of public school supporters. They saw it as a plot to introduce vouchers with which parents could pay for private secular or parochial school tuition, thereby taking money away from public schools.
The Reagan Administration made vouchers a cornerstone of its education program, thus insuring the defeat of any choice proposal. The Bush Administration has dropped the voucher scheme, giving choice a sturdy new life.
Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos plans to promote choice in meetings with parents, educators and politicians in five cities. The first will be Monday and Tuesday in New York, in East Harlem. The other cities are Minneapolis-St. Paul, Denver, Charlotte, N.C., and Richmond, Calif.
A recent Gallup poll shows that most Americans (60 percent of the respondents) favor parental choice, even though 42 percent did not think it would necessarily raise students' achievements.
Educators are divided. Dennis P. Doyle, a senior research fellow at the Hudson Institute in Virginia, writes in American Educator, the magazine of the American Federation of Teachers, that ''a school that is chosen is a school in which children, parents and teachers are collaborators, accomplices, if you will.''
A school board endorsing choice, he adds, gives its community and its teachers a vote of confidence. He underscores that, in a system of choice, teachers should also have the right to choose where they want to teach.
Seymour Fliegel, former associate superintendent of District 4 in East Harlem and now an education consultant, says, ''I have a simple philosophy: what's good enough for rich children is good enough for poor children.'' He is on the executive committee of the Center for Educational Innovation of the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a ''think tank'' generally considered conservative. The institute has published a policy paper, ''Model for Choice: A Report on Manhattan's District 4.''
Anthony Alvarado, superintendent of District 2 in lower Manhattan, says this year 92 percent of his junior high school students are in the schools of their first choice, with 44 percent in schools other than those to which they would normally be assigned.
Choice is not unanimously supported. Lewis W. Finch, superintendent of Anoka-Hennepin School District 11 in Coon Rapids, Minn., writes in American Educator, ''The claims for school choice and snake oil have a lot in common.'' He admits that choice as a populist notion is ''not entirely without merit,'' but warns that unrestricted choice ''could dash all hope for equal education opportunity for many students.''
He urges caution about ''ecstatic'' claims for ''forcing public schools into the highly competitive, dog-eat-dog open market,'' pointing to abuses, including misleading advertising, that pollute the commercial open market. Will more money go to schools with ''high-powered Madison Avenue consultants'' to proclaim their virtues? Will students follow the lure of strong sports teams? Will schools recruit the best and the brightest, leaving the less talented and handicapped behind?
Donald R. Moore and Suzanne Davenport of Design for Change, a Chicago research center, warn in The School Adminstrator (American Association of School Administrators) that complex admissions procedures give middle-class families an advantage and leave the poor behind. However, Mr. Alvarado points out that choice works in his district, where more than 60 percent of the children are from poverty-level homes.
Some opponents charge that choice could lead to the resegregation of schools. Even enthusiastic supporters of choice concede that school authorities must block such abuse.
Despite certain dangers, including that of touting it as a panacea, choice seems crucial to reform by making the system less monolithic.
The 19th-century hope for ''the one best way'' has been slow to die, even in the face of the school establishment's lip service to the right education for every child. Reformers know that, without competition, systems cling to the status quo even when all indicators demand change.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (73%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MINNEAPOLIS-SAINT PAUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (54%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS PARENTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SCHOOL CHOICE (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (86%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); 

PERSON: HECHINGER, FRED M GEORGE WALKER BUSH (73%); LAURO FRED 'LAURO F' CAVAZOS JR (54%); 



284 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

ECONOMY
 
Supporters of a lower capital gains tax are bidding for votes in the Senate, offering ever more generous packages of tax breaks. The latest offering would cut capital gains taxes for individual taxpayers and corporations. It would also provide tax breaks for small high-risk businesses and would restore the deductibility of individual retirement account contributions. [Page A1.] 
 
The Supreme Court will examine the scope of a patent law exemption for generic drug makers. It agreed to hear an appeal by Eli Lilly on whether the special protection extended beyond generic drugs to products like food additives and medical devices. [D2.]
 
COMPANIES
 
Qintex's deal to acquire MGM/UA collapsed in amid accusations and legal action, reopening the possibility of Rupert Murdoch making a bid for the film and television studio. [D1.]
 
Members of the Air Line Pilots Association voted to continue paying strike benefits to Eastern Airlines pilots, making it likely that the seven-month strike against Eastern will continue. [D1.]
 
McCaw Cellular Communications sweetened its tender offer for Lin Broadcasting to $125 a share. [D1.]
 
P.&G.'s chairman and chief will step down on Jan. 2, nearly three years before mandatory retirement. In a surprise, the head of international operations was named the successor. [D1.]
 
Extradition proceedings have begun against a Washington lawyer who has been linked by British authorities to a secret $100 million investment in a company run by Ivan F. Boesky. [D5.]
 
MCI Communications sued A.T.&T., accusing it of making false and deceptive advertising claims. [D4.]
 
McDonnell Douglas will introduce versions of its short- to medium-range commercial airliners next year that will be powered by traditional jet engines rather than a new engine technology. [D4.]
 
Volvo is holding discussions with Renault. But Volvo did not confirm reports that the auto makers were in the final stage of negotiating a merger or joint venture. [D4.]
 
Digital Equipment has a new second generation of computing applications that would enable office professionals to work together electronically on machines made by different companies. [D16.]
 
Telerate said a special panel of its directors had rejected as inadequate Dow Jones's $576 million offer. [D22.]
 
MARKETS
 
Stocks fell moderately as some futures-related trading ended a six-day surge that had carried the Dow Jones industrial average to a gain of nearly 100 points. The Dow fell 6.08, to 2,785.33. [D8.]
 The dollar rose sharply, passing the 1.90 mark level again and breaching 144 yen. The pound also fell sharply. [D15.] Copper futures rose to new contract highs before plunging later. [D15.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities were narrowly mixed in sluggish trading. [D19.] Yields on C.D.'s and money market accounts at commercial banks and savings institutions were down. [D6.]
 
TECHNOLOGY
 
A new class of specialized computers is becoming the next area of opportunity in the computer business, and a host of new companies are staking their claims to it. [D7.]
 
Wharfside conveyor belts can unload a ship of small packages of delicate and perishable goods more gently and more quickly than conventional methods. [D7.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
A gold standard for the ruble is being suggested to the Kremlin by American supply-siders. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
Sun Electric is making progress in the growing field of automotive emissions controls. Market Place.[D8.]
 
Saatchi & Saatchi's future is clouded, after its largest shareholder said it had been contacted by other parties interested in an overhaul of the company. Randall Rothenberg: Advertsing. [D1.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (54%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (56%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDES TERMS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); AIRLINES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FUTURES (84%); TENDER OFFERS (78%); MERGERS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); MEDICAL DEVICES (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (76%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); LAWYERS (73%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); STRIKES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); EXTRADITION (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); PATENTS (71%); PATENT LAW (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); COPPER MARKETS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); CURRENCIES (65%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (64%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); US DOLLAR (60%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (53%); 



285 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Deal to Buy MGM/UA Collapses

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 10

 BODY:
An Australian entertainment company's deal to acquire the MGM/UA Communications Company collapsed today amid recriminations and legal action, opening the possibility that Rupert Murdoch might make another bid for the film and television studio.
MGM/UA said it had terminated its agreement to sell the company to Qintex Australia Ltd. for more than $1.5 billion after Qintex failed to put up a $50 million letter of credit required by the deal. Qintex's ability to finance the acquisition had been the subject of considerable speculation in Hollywood and on Wall Street since the Australian company failed to deliver the letter of credit as scheduled on Sept. 22.
MGM/UA also said it had filed suit against Qintex in the Federal District Court in Los Angeles, charging breach of contract and fraud and seeking at least $50 million in damages. 
 
Letter From Quintex Chairman
Qintex's aggressive chairman, Christopher C. Skase, a former financial journalist, maintained in a letter to the Brisbane Stock Exchange that Qintex had taken steps to secure the letter of credit but that MGM/UA proposed ''bad faith'' changes in the deal that, he said, ''shifted daily and, in essence, reflected an attempt by MGM to extract higher economic value.'' He added that Qintex intended to sue MGM/UA for damages.
The deal's collapse came less than a month after MGM/UA turned down a $1.35 billion bid from Mr. Murdoch, who already owns the 20th Century-Fox studio. Dennis Petroskey, a spokesman for Mr. Murdoch's Fox Inc., said the company had not been in contact with MGM/UA about reopening negotiations. Mr. Murdoch was in Australia, according to Howard Rubenstein, his spokesman, and could not be reached.
 
Master Negotiators
But analysts said Mr. Murdoch would almost certainly remain interested, although both Mr. Murdoch and Kirk Kerkorian, the financier who owns 80 percent of MGM/UA, are master negotiators who might circle each other for some time before deciding how to proceed.
''I'm sure the phone calls between the bankers have already been made,'' said Jeffrey Logsdon, an analyst at Crowell, Weedon & Company in Los Angeles.
The collapse is a severe embarrassment for Qintex and Mr. Skase, who has built Qintex into one of Australia's largest media companies. He had portrayed the MGM/UA acquisition as a big step in building a global communications company.
Jeffrey C. Barbakow, MGM/UA's chairman and chief executive, said the company had worked hard with Qintex to find a solution to the Australian company's apparent financing problems. He said that executives of the two companies had met for the last week and that Mr. Skase was present at a meeting Sunday in Los Angeles.
''Almost every day, Qintex assured us that the letter of credit would be immediately forthcoming,'' Mr. Barbakow said in a statement. ''We believe it is now clear that Qintex repeatedly misled us regarding its ability to furnish the letter of credit.''
Qintex had originally agreed last spring to acquire just the United Artists studio and library, which includes the James Bond, ''Rocky'' and ''Pink Panther'' movies, from MGM/UA in a complicated deal valued at almost $700 million. But after Mr. Murdoch's surprise bid for the entire company last month, weeks before the original Qintex deal was set to close, Mr. Skase negotiated a new deal for all of MGM/UA that topped Mr. Murdoch's offer.
During the year that MGM/UA has been for sale, many of the world's largest entertainment companies have expressed some interest, including the Sony Corporation, which last month agreed to acquire Columbia Pictures.
Last year, a deal to sell a large stake in MGM/UA to a group including the producers Jon Peters and Peter Guber collapsed at the last minute. The company has been run for the last year by Mr. Barbakow, a former investment banker at Merrill Lynch whom Mr. Kerkorian brought in, largely to find a buyer.
 
Terms of Terminated Deal
Under last month's revised Qintex-MGM/UA deal, Qintex was to have paid $25 a share for MGM/UA's 50.6 million shares of common stock and $18 a share for 10 million preferred shares. Qintex would also have assumed $400 million in debt.
But Qintex was widely rumored to have been having trouble financing even the previous, smaller deal.
In a letter to the Brisbane Stock Exchange last week, Mr. Skase said Qintex would get backing from about 10 ''major international companies, many of whom have an involvement in the broadcasting and entertainment industry.'' He did not identify the companies or provide any financial details, except to say that Qintex's total financial participation would be about $125 million to $150 million.
 
Comment by Kerkorian
In a brief telephone interview today, Mr. Kerkorian, who rarely speaks to reporters, said the two companies ''really put in an effort'' to salvage the deal. Asked what had kept Qintex from delivering the letter of credit, Mr. Kerkorian replied, ''Obviously, it's financing problems, maybe priorities.'' He declined to elaborate.
Mr. Kerkorian said the collapse of the deal would not affect his plans to build a theme park in Las Vegas, Nev., through his other big holding, MGM Grand Inc. He said MGM/UA's board had not yet decided on its next step. Both he and Mr. Barbakow declined to comment on Mr. Murdoch's interest.
Mr. Barbakow, who stood to reap a huge financial gain as part of his employment contract if the deal had been completed, said in an interview that MGM/UA had tried ''everything we could think of that made sense'' to keep the deal on track. ''We weren't able to get anything that worked,'' he said.
 
Barbakow Statement
In his statement, Mr. Barbakow said: ''MGM/UA has made every effort to cooperate with Qintex, including proposals to reduce the letter of credit, accept substitute security or accept an opinion from Qintex's investment bankers of Qintex's ability to finance the merger. We also proposed that Qintex could proceed without a letter of credit, if MGM/UA also had the opportunity to consider a better offer. Moreover, Tracinda Corporation, MGM/UA's largest shareholder, indicated it was willing to assist in financing up to $135 million of the acquisition cost, without voting rights in the surviving corporation.''
Mr. Barbakow said Qintex's final proposal was to eliminate the letter of credit or any other security, eliminate the minimum damages that MGM/UA would be entitled to if the deal collapsed, postpone the closing by two months and require MGM/UA to invest in Qintex.
''We had no choice other than to terminate the agreement,'' Mr. Barbakow said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA (73%); 

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (91%); FOX INC (82%); CROWELL WEEDON & CO (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: MGM/UA COMMUNICATIONS CO; QINTEX AUSTRALIA LTD

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES DAMAGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BAD FAITH (73%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%); CONTRACTS LAW (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); FILM (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (89%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%); 



286 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Pilots to Continue Strike Benefits at Eastern

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
The Air Line Pilots Association announced yesterday that its membership had voted to continue paying strike benefits to Eastern Airlines pilots, making it likely that the seven-month strike against Eastern will continue for weeks, or even months.
Sentiment has been strong at some other carriers for an end to the strike, because the working pilots are paying a special strike assessment of 3 percent of their pay to support the strike benefits of $600 a week for Eastern pilots.
The union which represents 38,000 commercial pilots and has a contract with every large airline except American and Continental, did not disclose the margin by which the measure carried. Only a simple majority was needed. 
The pilots' vote came amid growing tensions between Eastern and its creditors and indications that the Senate might create a panel to investigate the strike.
Eastern's machinists struck the carrier on March 4, and the airline's pilots and flight attendants refused to cross picket lines. Eastern filed five days later for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code.
Ron Cole, a spokesman for the Eastern pilots, said, ''We're extremely pleased but not surprised because our fellow professional pilots understand that the outcome of the Eastern strike will affect their own professional futures.''
Eastern declined to comment. ''I really view it as an internal A.L.P.A. matter,'' said Robin Matell, a spokesman for the airline.
The votes were counted yesterday. Eastern's 3,500 pilots were allowed to vote, except those who have crossed picket lines or otherwise are not in good standing with the union. To be valid, ballots had to be postmarked by Sept. 25.
Timothy Pettee, an airline analyst at Merrill Lynch Research, said the vote meant the strike was likely to continue, but, he added, it was unlikely to affect the stock of the Texas Air Corporation, the parent of Eastern and Continental Airlines, significantly.
While the strike appears to be continuing, Eastern's creditors are becoming increasingly critical of the carrier's treatment of them in bankruptcy proceedings, two people involved in the bankruptcy case said yesterday. ''They have taken a harder line - there's no doubt about it,'' one said.
But the creditors have nonetheless recently allowed Eastern to withdraw $75 million from escrow accounts that hold the proceeds from asset sales like the $365 million sale of the Eastern Shuttle to Donald J. Trump in June. The Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan froze those proceeds, requiring Eastern to obtain court permission and the creditors' acquiesence to spend any of the money.
 
Creditors Meeting
Eastern's creditors will meet on Oct. 17 with their financial advisers from Goldman, Sachs & Company and Ernst & Young, who are preparing a report on Eastern's recent proposal to emerge from bankruptcy late this winter with more scheduled flights and less cash than previously proposed. The creditors are concerned that the ambitious plan will make the airline vulnerable in a recession and are unhappy with Eastern's request to resume routine debt payments after the bankruptcy as though the filing had not occurred, one of the sources said.
The creditors want more collateral and accelerated repayments. If these requests are denied, the creditors may file a legal challenge seeking to take control of the company, one of the sources said. ''It doesn't help to be restored to a series of payments over a number of years,'' if the airline liquidates in the next economic downturn and is unable to make the later payments, the person said.
Mr. Matell of Eastern said that the company had a policy of not discussing negotiations with creditors but that it would repay or reinstate all debts with interest.
 
Affirming a Commitment
A spokesman for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which represents 8,500 Eastern workers, yesterday reaffirmed the union's commitment not to change its stance regardless of what the pilots might do. ''We will stay on strike until we get relief'' - a better contract than management has offered so far, Jim Conley, the union's spokesman, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (73%); GS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (73%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (73%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (73%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN AIR LINES INC (90%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (73%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (53%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (50%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (94%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN (ALPA); EASTERN AIRLINES INC

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STRIKES; LABOR; PILOTS AIRCRAFT PILOTS (95%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (94%); AIRLINES (92%); STRIKES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (67%); DIVESTITURES (67%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



287 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A Gold Standard For the Kremlin?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
THE folks who persuaded Ronald Reagan that deficits do not matter have an idea or two for the Kremlin. Surprisingly, perhaps, Mikhail Gorbachev's economic advisers are giving these ideas a respectful hearing: They were reportedly even discussed at last month's mini-summit meeting in Jackson Hole, Wyo. More surprising still, they might prove part of the solution to the Soviet Union's desperate economic problems.
The economists are the supply-siders - specifically, Wayne Angell, a Federal Reserve governor appointed by President Reagan, and Jude Wanniski, once the brains behind The Wall Street Journal's editorial page and now a partner in the Polyconomics consulting firm in Morristown, N.J. And the concept they are promoting is nothing less than a gold standard for the ruble. 
The idea of tying currencies to a fixed quantity of precious metal has commended itself to assorted intellectuals for the last 300 years. The supply-siders, led by Robert Mundell of Columbia University, are the latest to catch the gold bug. A gold standard (or some other fixed commodity exchange standard) for the dollar, they argue, would prevent Washington from solving short-term political problems with inflationary measures.
But gold is not an easy political sell. Unlike the supply-siders' tax cut that was such a hit in 1981, it offers no way to rationalize private greed as public virtue. Nor is it as stylish: In an age of fast computers and faster bucks, the gold standard smacks of quill pens and starched collars.
Why, then, is gold likely to shine brighter in the gray light of Moscow? In part because all theories seem equally legitimate in the ideological vacuum left by the malaise of Leninist-Stalinist economics. In part because a gold standard might help Mr. Gorbachev cope with a critical problem known as the ruble overhang.
Perestroika has yet to pay off for long-suffering Soviet consumers. In spite of Moscow's best intentions, chronic scarcity has given way to a critical sense of deprivation. Soviet enterprises have been permitted, even encouraged, to raise wages. But per capita production has hardly changed since 1985, and modest cuts in military spending have been more than offset by increased investment instead of a rise in the output of consumer goods.
As a result, more money is chasing fewer goods, and there are longer lines for everything from sausage to shoes. Frustrated consumers have had little choice but to save; this accumulated overhang of rubles may run as high as one-third of one year's total economic output.
As Soviet planners admit, failure to trim the overhang will eventually destroy confidence in the currency - and in Mr. Gorbachev's changes. That leaves the planners with unpalatable options:
* They could follow the recent Chinese example, forcing workers to lock in part of their earnings in long-term bonds. That would obviously erode the Government's popularity.
* They could sell consumer goods purchased in the West. That would drain foreign exchange reserves, or add to Soviet foreign debt.
* They could sell public property - apartments, farmland, small enterprises. That would stir serious discontent among the majority who could not afford to buy and would resent the abandonment of the egalitarian ethic.
Suppose instead, argues Mr. Winniski, Moscow simply made a no-strings offer to convert anyone's rubles into a fixed amount of gold. Some people would undoubtedly take the gold and run. However, if the offer were deemed credible, and the exchange rate plausibly reflected the ruble's purchasing power, most people would not bother.
In fact, asserts Mr. Angell, foreigners might even lend hard currency to the Soviet Union at extremely attractive rates, buying ruble-denominated bonds effectively guaranteed in gold at interest rates as low as 3 percent.
Would the scheme really fly? No one knows because everything depends on the imponderable of public confidence in the Government's will and its capacity to honor future claims against the ruble. But the odds do seem long. To have any chance of working, Mr. Angell admits, it would have to be accompanied by draconian wage restraints or cuts in Government spending to prevent the ruble overhang from growing.
Moreover the choice of an exchange rate could prove critical. Set too low, it would feed expectations of inflation. Set too high, it would further hobble the nation's capacity to expand exports.
Still, the idea has a certain wacky appeal. In the Alice-in-Wonderland world of the post-Communist Soviet Union, no idea for change is too strange. Why not try one that enjoyed its greatest success in 19th-century capitalist Europe?

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BONDS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); COMMODITIES TRADING (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; ANGELL, WAYNE; WANNISKI, JUDE RONALD REAGAN (90%); 



288 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY BRIEFS

 BODY:
* Alco Standard Corp., Wayne, Pa., a maker of paper products and glassware, said its Paper Corp. of America unit had acquired Inter-City Paper Co., Minneapolis, and its Roll Source Inc. unit. Terms were not disclosed.
* Bear, Stearns & Co., the investment banking company, said it had organized a group that would purchase from the Israeli Government all its shares, or approximately 82 percent on a fully diluted basis, of the Jerusalem Economic Corp., an owner of industrial, office and warehouse space in the Jerusalem area. The sale price was $53 million. 
* Borden Inc., a food and dairy products distributor, said it had acquired FIAP Group, Milan, Italy, a maker of plastic films and rigid packaging. Terms were not disclosed.
* Chrysler Corp., Highland Park, Mich., priced its new luxury four-door Chrysler Imperial 1990 model car at $25,495 and said it would build 10,000 of the cars in the 1990 model year.
* Days Inns of America Inc., Atlanta, an operator of hotels and motels, said its international franchise arm would expand throughout Mexico with Franquicias Hoteleras S.A. de C.V., an affiliate of the hotel company Hoteles Romano, Mexico City.
* General Motors Corp., Detroit, said it had distributed about $377 million in special performance bonus payments to more than 364,000 eligible hourly rate employees in the United States, in accordance with its October 1987 labor agreement.
* Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif., introduced a desktop computer, the HP Vectra 486 PC, which will include hard disks that can transfer 20 million bits of data a second, 33 percent faster than the fastest disks now available, the company said. The new machine uses Extended Industry Standard Architecture.
* Texaco Inc., White Plains, and British Petroleum Co., London, agreed to form a venture into which both companies' refineries in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, would be merged and jointly operated. The venture, called Rijnmond Raffinaderij B.V., would be 65 percent owned by B.P. and 35 percent by Texaco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (82%); CVX (NYSE) (66%); BP (NYSE) (53%); BP (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (93%); SIC5111 PRINTING & WRITING PAPER (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); MEXICO (92%); ISRAEL (91%); ITALY (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (50%); 

COMPANY: UTI INTEGRATED LOGISTICS (93%); INTER-CITY PAPER CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (82%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (68%); CHEVRON CORP (66%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (58%); PAPER CORP OF AMERICA (58%); BORDEN INC (57%); INNS OF AMERICA (56%); BP PLC (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDES TERMS PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); FRANCHISING (76%); PLASTIC FILM SHEET & BAG MFG (73%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (65%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (56%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (54%); 



289 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
Servers Spurring an Evolution in Computing

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 10

 BODY:
A new class of specialized computers is becoming the next area of opportunity in the computer business, and a host of new companies are staking their claims to it.
The machines are known as servers, and they perform particular functions for personal computers or work stations hooked together in a network. Ideally, the user never knows which machine is working on the task.
In growing numbers of networks, a person wanting a particular electronic file could order it from a file server, a kind of electronic librarian. Documents to be printed go to a machine that runs printers, known as a print server, and jobs that require intensive computations go to a high-speed number-crunching machine known as a compute server. 
There are also communications servers, to connect one network to another; facsimile servers, to send or receive facsimile transmissions, and applications servers for performing tasks like retrieving information from a data base.
Until now the role of servers has been filled by conventional computers, from a personal computer to a minicomputer to a mainframe, depending on the capacity required. But a flock of new companies think that by designing machines from scratch, they can produce servers that are less expensive and more effective than general-purpose computers.
''The services that are today supplied by one computer are being broken into application-specific servers or computers,'' said Andrew S. Rachleff, a partner of Merrill, Pickard, Anderson & Eyre, a Palo Alto, Calif., venture capital firm that has invested in new server companies.
If servers catch on, ''minicomputers are going to be replaced first,'' said Enzo Torresi, the president of Netframe Systems Inc., which makes file servers.
Forrester Research, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., projects that sales of servers in the United States will grow to more than $10 billion in 1993 from $2 billion in 1988. And of the new companies developing servers, ''There is the potential for another Compaq or another Digital Equipment,'' said John McCarthy, director of research at Forrester.
The rise of servers is part of a broad evolution in computing that is sweeping corporate America. The new mode of computing is called client-server computing, in which many desktop computers are linked in networks with larger machines.
The clients are the desktop computers, either personal computers or work stations. They do the simple computing tasks, like running a word-processing program or spreadsheet. They also provide the user with the interface system of windows and menus that make the computer easy to use.
But desktop computers cannot handle all jobs. Certain files and data to be used by everyone must be stored centrally, to make sure everyone in a company is using the same data. Certain expensive peripherals like printers are more economically shared by several people. And intensive computing jobs, like numerical simulations, are best done on high-speed ''number crunchers'' because they would tie up a personal computer for days.
Software can be written to automatically distribute pieces of a job to the appropriate machine. In an electronic publishing program, for instance, a user would do word processing on his desktop machine, but a server would align the margins of the document, which takes more computing.
The most common type of this machine is the file server, which acts as a librarian, sending out files of information. Two start-up companies in California, Netframe of Sunnyvale and Auspex Systems Inc. of Santa Clara, recently introduced servers that they said would be faster at retrieving files than conventional computers. Another start-up, Epoch Systems of Marlborough, Mass., has a file server to manage the storage of huge amounts of information on optical disks.
The new file server companies argue that conventional computers are designed to do rapid calculations for an individual. But a file server must dole out information to numerous users, yet rarely has to do much computation on its own.
In a conventional computer, all requests go through the central processor. To retrieve data from a hard disk, for instance, the central processor receives the request and sends out an instruction to the hard disk. The required data are transferred to the computer's main memory and then out through the central processor to the network.
''That central processing unit is getting in the way; you can't go any faster than that unit can go,'' said Larry Boucher, president of Auspex. His company's new server allows requests for files to go directly from the network to the disk drives, eliminating the potential bottleneck.
Applications servers would perform a particular type of job, like getting specific information from a data base. Tricord Systems of Plymouth, Minn., is developing applications servers for purposes like data base access and storing video images.
Peer Networks Inc., a Santa Clara start-up, is working on a communications server - a gateway connecting computers on one network with those on another. Castelle, also of Santa Clara, is working on a facsimile server, which would send and receive facsimile messages for computers on the network.
But the new server companies will not all face smooth sailing. Conventional computer companies are trying to position their own machines to function as servers, or to come out with special servers. The Compaq Computer Corporation is expected to introduce a machine that uses multiple Intel Corporation 80486 microprocessors, allowing it to function as a high-speed file server.
Moreover, servers can grow only as fast as networks do. While client-server computing might be fine for a small department, some corporations are hesitant about applying it to the whole corporation. Huge networks become hard to keep track of and prone to breakdowns. And there is still very little software geared to work on client-server networks.
With all the servers on a network, it is possible there will not be much left for the desktop computer to do, other than provide the interface. An engineer who does not want to do word processing or a spreadsheet might find virtually all the work being done by servers.
That has led to another idea for profiting from client-server computing. Instead of putting an entire work station on each desk, why not merely supply a terminal with windows. Terminals, which are meant to display information but not to compute anything, are less expensive than computers.
Indeed, several companies - the leading one being Network Computing Devices of Mountain View, Calif., - have jumped into the business of supplying what are known as X terminals. These terminals use a standard window system developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

GRAPHIC: diagram

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (66%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (66%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (66%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL PICKARD ANDERSON & EYRE (66%); WEB.COM INC (66%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL COMPUTERS NETWORK SERVERS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); NETWORK STORAGE TECHNOLOGY (89%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (89%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (78%); DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 



290 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Dow Slips 6.08 Points, Ending 6-Day Surge

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stocks fell moderately yesterday as some futures-related trading ended a six-day surge that had carried the Dow Jones industrial average to a gain of nearly 100 points.
The Dow dropped 6.08 points, to 2,785.33, after being off as many as 16 points late in the afternoon. In early trading the Dow average had climbed to within 5 points of the 2,800 level, but selling of blue chips began, ending five straight days of records for the bellwether indicator. 
At the same time, declines on the New York Stock Exchange ran ahead of advances by 831 to 652.
''Most of yesterday's attention was focused on the strong dollar, even in the face of coordinated selling of dollars by world central banks,'' said Edward P. Nicoski, a technical analysts at Piper, Jaffray & Hopwood Inc. ''Previously, dollar strength resulted in a strong equity market, but today's action may imply a decoupling of the two.''
 
Influence of Bond Prices
Analysts said stocks were also depressed somewhat by investors' perceptions that interest rates would not head lower soon. By late in the day the interest rates on the 30-year Treasury issue were up slightly.
Mr. Nicoski, however, said that more than likely, the stock market pause yesterday would prove ''to be just a breather, part of a normal corrective process before the Dow scales 2,800.''
Volume on the Big Board regained some vigor yesterday, as volume soared to 147.6 million shares from skimpy 86.8 million shares on Monday, when markets were open despite the Yom Kippur and Columbus Day holidays.
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.67, to 359.13, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index dipped 0.34, to 199.00.
The Dow Jones transportation average fell 12.62, to 1,505.87, yesterday after rising sharply on Monday.
The AMR Corporation, parent of American Airlines, fell 3 3/8, to 101 3/8. despite the announced $120-a-share bid by Donald J. Trump. Traders said airline stocks were off as a result of USAir's announcement on Monday that its second-half earnings would be lower than in the period a year earlier. USAir fell 3 1/8, to 49 1/8.
On the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market value index rose 0.51, to 397.03, but in over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index dropped 1.59 points, to 484.14.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PJC (NYSE) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (52%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); FUTURES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); AIRLINES (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); YOM KIPPUR (63%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



291 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Rises Sharply After Greenspan's Remarks

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Spurred in part by comments from Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, the dollar rose sharply yesterday, passing the important 1.90-mark level again and breaching 144 yen. The British pound also fell sharply against the dollar and other currencies.
The Federal Reserve sold dollars several times in New York, traders said, but the sales seemed to have no strong impact. 
In New York the dollar ended at 1.9075 marks, up from 1.8875 on Monday, when trading was light because of the Yom Kippur and Columbus Day holidays, and up from 1.8905 on Friday. Against the yen, the dollar was at 144.45, up from 142.85 Monday and 142.65 on Friday.
The British pound ended in New York yesterday at $1.5530, down from $1.5775 on Monday and $1.6045 on Friday. The pound had dropped below the important 3-mark level on Monday, and closed yesterday in London at 2.95 marks, a 28-month low.
 
Speech by Greenspan in Moscow
Mr. Greenspan, in a speech delivered in Moscow, said that a short-term effort to stabilize the foreign exchange markets might not be productive. Such remarks appear to traders to undermine the cooperative effort of the United States and its economic allies in the Group of Seven to push the dollar lower.
The speech was also taken by some as a signal that the Fed would not move to lower interest rates soon, despite the September unemployment report, which was released Friday, showing that the economy was weaker than expected.
''Attempts to hold interest rates at unsustainably low levels have been shown to result in accelerating inflation,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''Similarly, attempts to maintain unrealistic exchange rates may lead to destabilizing international capital flows, and ultimately have to be abandoned.''
''Greenspan's remarks gave it a real pop,'' said J. Thomas Stanley, manager for corporate foreign exchange at the Chemical Bank.
Francoise Soares-Kemp, vice president at Credit Suisse in New York, added, ''Greenspan's words gave us complete assurance there was nothing coming soon officially.'' But she did note that the closely watched Federal funds rate had slipped slightly in the last few days.
Rudiger Dornbusch, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said that the dollar should be lower and that the Fed should lower interest rates now to push it lower ''even if the move would be a little premature.'' With the dollar at this level, he said, the investment needed to increase exports is being discouraged, which means the trade deficit may worsen.
Against the yen the dollar is now close to the 146 level, which is where it was on Sept. 23, when the United States and its economic allies declared in a communique in Washington that the dollar was too high. The aggressive and coordinated dollar selling that followed pushed the dollar down significantly. But for the last week or so, it has been rising, despite continued dollar selling and a wave of interest rate increases in Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (52%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); YOM KIPPUR (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); EXPORT PRICES (62%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); 



292 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 24, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
5-Year Commercial Revival Brings Lift to South Bronx

BYLINE: By Shawn G. Kennedy

 BODY:
WHEN Zaro Bakeries, Farberware Inc., Empire Glass and other companies opened operations in the South Bronx several years ago, they were viewed as risk takers in an area that had come to represent urban decline.
But today, more than five years after manufacturing, warehousing and distribution companies started venturing back into the South Bronx, the area's popularity has begun to push up rents and property prices. And in South Bronx neighborhoods like Port Morris and Hunts Point, there is a shortage of industrial space. 
''In the past few years, rents for average spaces have increased by more than 50 percent,'' said Earle Altman, a senior vice president with Helmsley-Spear Inc., a real estate brokerage company. ''When it comes to resales, property values have doubled in some locations.''
Currently, the rent for multilevel space is between $4.50 and $5.50 a foot, Mr. Altman said. Rent for space in single-story drive-in buildings is higher.
Despite the increases, rents for industrial space in the Bronx are still a relative bargain when compared with rents in Long Island City and Manhattan, where the few remaining lofts go for $8 to $12 a foot.
The price differential remains a prime attraction, but dozens of companies have also discovered that a factory location in the South Bronx offers easy access to Manhattan and to regional transportation arteries. In addition, New York City offers tax benefits and low-cost electricity to companies that relocate in the borough.
Companies that moved into the area in the early 1980's had their choice of buildings. After decades as a manufacturing stronghold, the South Bronx had been abandoned by many companies in the 1960's and 1970's.
In 1984 when Maria Torresy started Empire Glass, a glass-tempering business, she signed a lease for a 34,000-square-foot building at 608 East 133d Street. The starting rent for the building, which had been empty for four years, was $3.75 a foot.
By comparison, the owners of a single-story building on 133d Street are asking $7 a foot for a lease or $70 a foot for the sale of the building.
While the initial attraction of the South Bronx often is modest rents, many have found other advantages.
''The point of taking space here was to be close to the customers in northern Manhattan and the Bronx,'' said Joel Napchen, manager of the Bruckner Boulevard branch of Jetro Cash and Carry, a wholesale food and grocery distribution company.''We've found another benefit of this location in the labor pool.''
Jetro has been operating since March 1988 out of 185,000 square feet in a building at 149th Street and Bruckner Boulevard.
Hudson Scenic Studio has rented space in the Port Morris section of the borough since 1981. The company found that when it started looking for property to buy, there was nothing in the neighborhood that fitted its space requirements and price range.
''We wanted to stay in Port Morris,'' said Gene O'Donovan, who with his partner, Neil Mazzella, moved the theatrical set construction company from Cornwall. ''We have seen rents rise around here, and unfortunately we can't afford to stay if we want to own.''
The company, which was responsible for the sets for ''Les Miserables'' and ''The Phantom of the Opera,'' currently operates in five rental spaces, ranging in size from 10,000 to 18,000 square feet. Mr. O'Donovan has been negotiating with the city's Public Development Corporation to buy three city-owned buildings in the Morrisania section of the borough.

GRAPHIC: photo of Hudson Scenic Studio on Bruckner Boulevard, where the sets for ''Les Miserables'' and ''The Phantom of the Opera'' were created (NYT/Jack Manning)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (70%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (70%); NAICS424410 GENERAL LINE GROCERY MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS423850 SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: HELMSLEY-SPEAR INC (70%); JETRO HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); WHOLESALERS (78%); BAKERIES (78%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (72%); GROCERIES WHOLESALERS (72%); TRENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G



293 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Arnold M. Picker Is Dead at 76; Film Executive Was Fund-Raiser

BYLINE: By GLENN FOWLER

 BODY:
Arnold M. Picker, former head of international operations for United Artists Pictures Inc. who was a prominent fund-raiser for Democratic political candidates, died of pneumonia on Sunday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 76 years old.
Mr. Picker, whose family was prominent in the film industry, joined Columbia Pictures in 1935 as an assistant to the foreign manager and became vice president in charge of foreign distribution for Columbia in 1945. 
Six years later he was one of a group of executives who took over the management of United Artists, then in shaky financial condition. As a partner and executive vice president for international distribution, he built a network of foreign outlets that promoted United Artists films around the world. He was named chairman of the company's executive committee in 1961, a position he held until retirement in 1967.
Although his activities in the film industry were entirely on the business side, he was active in preserving films as an art form and was instrumental in forming the American Film Institute. The institute is currently headed by his niece, Jean Picker Firstenberg.
He was also chairman of the National Center for Jewish Film and helped start a film course at City College of New York. His father, David V. Picker, was an executive of Loew's Theater Management Corporation.
 
On Nixon's 'Enemies List'
In politics Mr. Picker was chairman of campaigns for Senators Henry M. Jackson of Washington and Edmund S. Muskie of Maine when they sought national office, and was a major contributor to the Democratic National Committee in Congressional campaigns.
In 1973 his name was No. 1 on an ''enemies list'' compiled by White House aides to President Richard M. Nixon. At the time Mr. Picker was Senator Muskie's chief fund raiser.
Mr. Picker was born in New York and attended City College and the London School of Economics. At his death he lived in Golden Beach, Fla., a resort town near Miami.
He is survived by his wife of 54 years, the former Ruth Cohen; two daughters, Carol Frank of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Phyllis Dessner of Toledo, Ohio; two brothers, Eugene, of Bay Harbor Island, Fla., and Sidney, of Beverly Hills, Calif., and seven grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: photo of Arnold M. Picker (Karsh, Ottawa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (78%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED ARTISTS PICTURES INC (93%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE (55%); AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE (55%); OTTAWA SENATORS (54%); OTTAWA SENATORS (54%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DEATHS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); FILM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); PNEUMONIA (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); BEACHES (61%); 

PERSON: PICKER, ARNOLD M; FOWLER, GLENN RICHARD NIXON (58%); 



294 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: Milwaukee Helps Pace U.S. As Innovator for Workplace

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Without methodical planning or a grand design, this breezy and muscular city on Lake Michigan has become a flourishing laboratory of the kinds of workplace innovations that national policy makers and private businesses are only beginning to experiment with.
For more than a decade, the city and county governments have provided tuition subsidies for workers to keep abreast of their fields, and have offered job sharing and four-day weeks. In the 1980's, they have adopted unpaid parental leave, giving fathers the same rights as mothers.
City Hall provides pay incentives for 980 managers to do better work and vacation incentives for nearly 9,000 city employees to refrain from abusing sick leave. John M. Tries, the city's director of employee relations, says he is rewriting the entire civil service code to allow the city more flexibility in redefining the workplace. 
At the county's courthouse headquarters, six blocks from City Hall, 170 welfare workers in the Department of Social Services keep ''4-40'' schedules, working four 10-hour days, starting at 7 A.M. Ninety-one members of the department follow ''flextime'' schedules, which many use to work nine hours for four days and four hours Friday mornings. About 110 city and county employees share jobs, working half-time for half the pay and half the benefits.
Because of the years of testing approaches to accommodating the needs of a changing work force, Milwaukee officials have a sense of which approaches succeed, in what circumstances, and which need more testing.
For private employers and other cities around the country, Milwaukee, a city with a long progressive tradition, provides an opportunity to examine their own efforts to accommodate the special needs of their employees, particularly the two-earner family that is now the norm.
''It has been a laboratory for workplace innovation,'' said Byron Yaffe, professor of industrial relations at the University of Wisconsin.
The County Executive, David F. Schulz, says the city has only responded to a trend that is evident everywhere. ''There has been a sea-change,'' he said. ''Employers value their employees more. We're fitting the job to the employee and not the employee to the job.''
John Parr, executive director of the local chapter of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, said, ''We've had a long-running, formal relationship with the city so we've been able to get at these issues early.''
How well Milwaukee's workplace adjustments serve the government, its workers and the taxpayers is not established in any detail. High taxes are a likely price, and taxes are a disincentive to businesses that would open up shop here. Among 31 big cities that Fortune magazine surveyed, state and local taxes in Milwaukee are higher per capita than in all but four other cities: Washington, New York, Boston and Baltimore. Boston and another city that is high on the list, Minneapolis, are also often cited as workplace innovators like Milwaukee.
Officials here say that they have found their workplace accommodations hard to apply to the police, firefighters and others who have tightly structured jobs, but that they have worked well for thousands of office employees, especially for those below the top ranks.
 
Job-Sharer's Experience
One illustration is Amy Grow, a job-sharer in the city and county governments. Mrs. Grow, whose husband, a police officer, works the night shift, spends her mornings fielding inquiries from taxpayers in the City Treasurer's office. At noon, she usually leaves to pick up her 4-year-old son at the nearby county day care center and goes home for the rest of the day. Another woman takes her place at the office.
''I have just enough time to get out of the house and have an almost normal home life, too,'' she said. Other job-sharers make quite different arrangements. Two in the county museum carve the five-day week in half, working two full days and a half day each, while two in the county's accounts payable office take turns working two days one week, three days the next.
The arrangements can pose complications when a member of a job-sharing team leaves or shifts to full-time work. But Mrs. Grow's boss, Frank Bartoszewicz, says he prefers job-sharers to people who work nine-to-five. Rather than an employee who wears down as the day progresses, he said, ''I get four hours of a fresh person twice a day.''
Mr. Parr, whose local represents more workers than any other, said of job-sharing, ''They do that instead of having people quit.''
Why Milwaukee's public sector has been more responsive to the changing labor force than most communities seems to owe little to particular leaders, like chief executives who set goals and standards in private industry. Most innovations have been sporadic and spontaneous and confined within individual departments and agencies. Thus one of the smaller city departments, the library, has many more job-sharers, with 12, than any other, and these resulted largely from the pressure of Mr. Parr's union.
 
Practical Pressures
These days, the city has to compete with some real-world practicalities that tend to work against things that people might like to try, like paid parental leave or free day care. The city and the county, under the pressure of tight budgets, are doing things like shaving health benefits, raising some fees, eliminating jobs as population shrinks, and on occasion using temporary workers for jobs that full-time employees did earlier.
At the same time, the governments have to compete for workers in a state with unemployment around 4 percent. That leaves a small pool of people to recruit, most of them women and minority workers and many with little training. Such workers often require special training for ever more sophisticated work, and once trained, they represent investments that a cost-conscious employer has more incentive than ever to try to keep.
Being responsive to workers, moreover, can help the governments respond better to the community, said Mr. Schulz, the County Executive. The 10-hour days that many social workers and financial assistance workers keep, for example, permits them to do paperwork early in the morning so they can be free to meet with clients from 9 to 5.
In such an environment, the innovations keep coming. Last year, City Hall adopted an incentive pay plan under which department heads can spend 4 percent of their payroll budgets to reward administrators for meeting prescribed goals. Under the city's sick leave program, adopted for managers six years ago and for all employees two years ago, employees get an extra day of vacation for every four months they go without calling in sick.
 
Unpaid Parental Leaves
The county, which oversees the courts, highways, the jail and welfare for Milwaukee and 15 nearby small cities and villages, started an unpaid parental leave program for new fathers, as well as mothers, well before most other government institutions. Parents can take a leave, initially for six months, and then apply to their supervisors for an extension, without losing their jobs.
And partly because of the labor shortage in Milwaukee, Mr. Schulz said the county is planning one program next year to train some of the 30,000 mothers on welfare for regular jobs, a project that has taken on some urgency because of the cost of welfare. The county is planning another program under which young, lower-level employees will be granted one-year appointments in other departments to give them broader experience and a chance at bigger jobs.
To help families of employees cope with child care bills that can run as much as $90 per week per child, the county will introduce a cost-saving voucher system in January. Employees will get vouchers covering cost of care. They will submit the vouchers to child-care centers, which will turn them into the city for reimbursement. The employees will still pay for the care, but since the voucher does not count as income, the taxable income will be lower.
No one has compiled comprehensive data on the workers engaged in job sharing, flextime scheduling and the like, so no one can document the effects of the programs. But sick leave, a partial gauge of job satisfaction, seems to be declining. The county lost 514,600 work hours to sick leave in 1982, and 477,400 in 1988.
County officials said annual job turnover shows no clear trend. Over the last five years, it has ranged between the high of 8.6 percent in 1986 and the low of 6.4 percent in 1987.
The four-year-old county day care center, open from 6 to 6, for children 6 months to 6 years old, appears to benefit both parents and government. Mark Kustermann, the county's deputy director for human resources, said he did a spot check of five employees who keep children there. Three reported that their attendance at work had improved, he said, two that they returned to work after having babies sooner than they would otherwise have, and two would have considered resigning had it not been for the center.

GRAPHIC: photos of Amy Grow with her husband and son (NYT/Tom Capp) (pg.D25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (96%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MILWAUKEE (WIS)

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LABOR; WORKING HOURS EMPLOYMENT (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); COUNTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WORK WEEK (78%); JOB SHARING (78%); FLEXTIME (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PARENTING (71%); SICK LEAVE (70%); FAMILY LEAVE (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T



295 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Course Set by Pakistan Worrying U.S.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
The Bush Administration has certified to Congress that Pakistan does not possess a nuclear device, but it expressed concerns at the same time about Pakistan's continuing efforts to develop nuclear weapons.
The certification, which is required each year by Congress to provide assistance to Pakistan, was transmitted in a letter on Oct. 5 from President Bush.
''I have concluded that Pakistan does not now possess a nuclear explosive device,'' Mr. Bush wrote. But the President added that ''Pakistan has continued its efforts to develop its unsafeguarded nuclear program.'' 
 
Warning From Reagan
Last year President Reagan warned that advances in Pakistan's nuclear program were making it increasingly difficult for the Administration to certify that Pakistan does not possess a nuclear weapon.
''The Congress should be aware that as Pakistan's nuclear capabilities grow, and if evidence about its activities continues to accumulate, this process of annual certification will require the President to reach judgments about the status of Pakistani nuclear activities that may be difficult or impossible to make with any degree of certainty,'' Mr. Reagan wrote in a November 1988 letter.
 
Meeting With Bhutto
Administration officials said at the time that Pakistan was privately informed of this assessment, which they said was intended as a warning to curb its nuclear program.
The United States repeated its concerns during Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's visit to the United States in June. William H. Webster, the Director of Central Intelligence, gave a briefing to the Prime Minister in which he detailed what Washington knew about the Pakistani program.
In his letter of certification, President Bush took note of Ms. Bhutto's assurances to Congress that Pakistan does not possess, or intend to make, a nuclear weapon. Mr. Bush also noted that his letter did not address the question of whether Pakistan ''is attempting to develop or has developed various relevant capabilities.''
Pakistan received $576 million in economic and military assistance for the 1989 budget year. The Bush Administration has requested $621 in assistance for 1990. The Administration also plans to sell 60 F-16 planes to Pakistan.
 
Comment From Solarz
Representative Stephen J. Solarz, Democrat of Brooklyn, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asian and Pacific Affairs, said he had ''mixed feelings'' about Mr. Bush's assessment.
''As a strong proponent of close Pakistani-American ties, I am pleased that President Bush was able to issue the certification,'' Mr. Solarz said. But he added that he was ''alarmed by the President's finding that Pakistan continues its efforts to develop an unsafeguarded nuclear program.''
Some specialists outside Government said Mr. Bush's certification did not alleviate their concerns over the Pakistani nuclear program.
''I think it is clear that Pakistan has all the components of a bomb,'' said Gary Milhollin, a professor at the University of Wisconsin who focuses on nuclear proliferation issues. ''What we are looking at is a failure to put it together. To say that Pakistan does not have the bomb is like saying that a person who has not put bullets in his gun is unarmed.''
In his letter, Mr. Bush asserted that his Administration remains ''extremely troubled'' about ''the continued risk of a South Asian nuclear arms race,'' in spite of his certification.
The President said the United States has had ''extensive diplomatic contacts'' with Pakistan over proliferation, adding that Washington ''will continue to make clear to Pakistan that our ability to certify depends on evidence that the assurances give by the Prime Minister are being implemented.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PAKISTAN

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TRENDS (68%); BUDGETS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (78%); 



296 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-19
 
A need exists in East Germany ''to discuss all the basic questions'' of the society, and to learn the causes of the flight of nearly 50,000 East Germans to the West, the country's ruling Politburo said. Page A1

 
There are no nuclear devices in Pakistan, the Administration told Congress, while also expressing concern about Pakistan's continuing efforts to develop nuclear weapons. A1

 
Part of the U.S. Embassy in Moscow would be rebuilt under a new plan that the State Department says it has drafted. The building is riddled with Soviet eavesdropping devices. A18 
 
 
Tass reports joshing over its U.F.O. story A18

 
The failure of the uprising in Panama was caused by a major who changed sides at the last minute and led his troops to General Noriega's rescue, said the widow of the major who led the plot. A1

 
General Noriega's power was weakened by the unsuccessful coup as he must now rebuild his army, diplomats said. But he has no other obvious rival and he is digging in. A13

 
News analysis: It's Helms vs.
White House over failed coup A12

Bush and Senators meet A12

 
President de Klerk met with leaders of the anti-apartheid movement, including Archbishop Tutu. The Presi-dent described the meeting as ''talks about talks.'' A3

 
Charges against Namibian rebels, accusing them of imprisoning, torturing and killing hundreds from their own ranks, could not be verified by U.N. investigators. A3

 
A Syrian major flying a bomber built by the Soviet Union defected to Israel and asked for political asylum, Israeli officials said. A10

 
Catholic draft urges Palestinian ''sovereignty'' A11

 
The Nobel Prize in Economics was awarded to a Norweigan professor for his pioneering work in methods for testing economic theories. 1

 
Chhainsa journal: Food for children's bodies and minds A4

Gandhi draws fire in Parliament A8

Notes on China: One birthday at villa, another under guard A14

Hong Kong leader tones down criticism of Beijing A14

Pope steps lightly in Indonesia A7

 
NATIONAL A20-30, B10, D25
 
Government payment for abortions for poor women whose pregnancies resulted from rape or incest would be allowed under a measure passed by the House. A1

 
Abortion access stands in Florida A23

 
A clean air measure was passed by a House panel that weakens the President's proposal to increase the use of alternative fuels. Before the vote, the White House sent contradictory signals on the measure. A1

 
Wrangling on gains tax continues D1

Washington Talk: Congress takes notice of children A20

 
A drug that prevents pneumonia in people infected with the AIDS virus will be given away to the needy, its maker said. The company has been criticized for its pricing. A1

 
Innovative workplace arrangements, including job sharing, four-day weeks, and paternity leave, are flourishing in Milwaukee's public sector. National policy makers are now examining that city's success. A1

 
The Great Lakes are facing a crisis as a result of toxic contamination and the destruction of wildlife habitats, said E.P.A. and Canadian health officials, who called for an expanded clean-up of the basin. A20

 
Seven states apparently balk at storing atomic waste A24

A-plant nominee faces questions A27

 
The nation's Hispanic population exceeds 20 million for the first time, said the Census Bureau. At present, Congress is debating whether the 1990 census should include illegal aliens, many of them Hispanic. A20

 
Stricter safety standards for vessels based in United States ports were urged by the National Transportation Safety Board, addressing what it said was a dangerous lack of regulation in the cruise industry. B10

 
Boeing's fight over bonuses D1

May plans to sell Caldor D1

Crucial jet part found by farmer A20

Shuttle delay seen A21

Officials say Navy didn't malign two Iowa sailors B10

Rights chief offers to quit B10

 
REGIONAL B1-8
 
David Dinkins is visiting cities across the country to raise money for his mayoral campaign. His advisers say New York City's new campaign finance law has encouraged these expanded fund-raising efforts. A1

 
Teacher leaves Dinkins campaign B4

 
Black voters are being courted by the Giuliani campaign, but analysts say that it will be hard to shake Mr. Dinkins's black support because of racial pride and party loyalty. B5

 
Candidate's staffs try to agree on debate sequence B3

Campaigns get outside help B3

 
Candidates for New Jersey Governor clashed angrily over more than a dozen issues during their second debate. B1

 
Three teen-agers were arrested Tuesday and charged with assaulting three Jewish students in what the police have described as an anti-Semitic attack. B1

 
The case against Robert Garcia, the Congressman, and his wife is based on the testimony of a ''liar, a perjurer and a thief,'' said a defense lawyer in his summary remarks. B1

 
A plan for mixed-income housing at Roosevelt Island B1

Suffolk taxpayers want to know where school money goes B2

Plan to decommission Shoreham lags B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PANAMA (79%); CHINA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); BEIJING, CHINA (67%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COUPS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (85%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); RELIGION (65%); ABORTION (64%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (63%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (61%); AIDS & HIV (61%); PNEUMONIA (60%); VIRUSES (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (53%); 



297 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: Give Economy Priority In Mayoral Campaign

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your report that Mayor Edward I. Koch has imposed a New York City hiring freeze in view of a looming $400 million budget gap for 1990 (news story, Sept. 28) portends greater problems.
There will be budget gaps to contend with that will rival those of the fiscally strapped 1970's. As past reports from my office have pointed to the financial problems now being raised, our recent reports predict more - and equally great - problems that a new mayor, and all New Yorkers, will be tackling in the years to come.
Along with fighting crime and drugs, and helping the homeless, this city should be prepared to tighten its collective belt. Although fiscal issues are not the usual campaign material, the kind of indicators we see today demonstrate a need for the mayoral candidates to give the city's economic status a high priority in the campaign.
 
EDWARD V. REGAN
State Comptroller
 New York, Sept. 29, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; MAYORS; FORECASTS MAYORS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (85%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); 

PERSON: REGAN, EDWARD V (COMPTROLLER)



298 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Have the Democrats Lost Their Soul?;
Yes: Blame Election Funds

BYLINE: By Robert B. Reich; Robert B. Reich is author of ''The Resurgent Liberal and Other Unfashionable Prophecies.''

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Two things have happened to Congressional Democrats in the 1980's: They have lost their identity; their campaign funds have swollen. There's a single story here.
Not long ago, Democrats would have relished a fight with Republicans over capital gains tax cuts for the rich. But now, even though the gap between the rich and poor is the widest in 40 years, many Democrats are ready to give the rich all the tax breaks they want. What passes as a radical Democratic proposal is to adjust the marginal income tax on the super-rich to match the marginal tax level on the very rich, and to make individual retirement accounts available to the upper middle class. 
Once, Democrats would have hammered Wall Street for insider trading, junk-bond excesses, self-dealing in futures contracts and epic displays of greed. Bold reforms would have been proposed. But today's Democrats are conspicuously silent about Wall Street shenanigans.
In the past, Democrats would have thundered against the negligence of an oil company that destroyed thousands of miles of Alaskan shore; the brazenness of corrupt, incompetent military weapons contractors. There would have been demands for full restitution, indictments, air-tight regulations. But in the wake of such scandals, the Democrats have seldom departed from polite passivity.
In short, Democrats once represented the underdogs against the rich and powerful. There was no need for carefully worded statements of principle, for think-tanks cobbling together ''new ideas.'' Everyone knew what the Democrats stood for: the little fellow.
They lost their identity, not because Americans became more respectful of wealth and power or more convinced trickle-down economics would actually work (polls show widespread opposition to capital gains breaks for the rich) but because Democrats became dependent on the rich to finance their campaigns.
They convinced big business and Wall Street it was smarter to back incumbent Democrats than aspiring Republicans - an honest sales pitch. Incumbents are much more likely to win, especially with a little help from friends. In the 1988 election, 97 percent of House and 85 percent of Senate incumbents who ran for re-election regained their seats.
In 1988, 64 percent of all the money raised by political action committees went to Democratic incumbents in the House and Senate; almost none went to Republican challengers. Most of this windfall ($31.7 million) came from corporate, Wall Street and trade association PAC's, rather than from trade unions (which contributed less than $24 million) or other traditional sources of Democratic funds.
It is difficult to represent the little fellow when the big fellow pays the tab. The problem is not corruption. The inhibition is more subtle. The anticipated need for more money tends to stifle indignation toward the source of funds and to constrain bold thinking. Democrats have come to sound like Republicans because they rely on the same funders and make the same contacts as the G.O.P.
If the Democrats want to regain their identity, the first step is to reform the way Congressional campaigns are financed. President Bush says he wants to abolish most PAC's and allow more campaign spending by political parties. But the Democrats, flush with more PAC money than Republicans, reject this proposal as partisan. (It is, but that's not the point.) They should make a counterproposal that is fairer to both sides: Limit campaign spending by candidates who accept public financing, and cap outside income in return for a pay increase.
If Congressional Democrats fail to embrace campaign finance reform, their current electoral victories may be short-lived. No party can long endure without standing for something. When the public discovers that its only choice is between Republicans and Republicans who call themselves Democrats - between those who champion the rich without qualms and those who champion the rich with an echo of regret - they'll opt for the real thing.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); POLITICS (75%); INSIDER TRADING (74%); FUTURES (74%); BONDS (74%); NEGLIGENCE (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (54%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (54%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%); INDICTMENTS (51%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B



299 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: A Mix of Roosevelt Island Housing Planned

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
New York City and New York State have developed a plan for almost 2,000 new mixed-income apartments on Roosevelt Island, next to the Queensboro Bridge.
Under the plan, money from the sale of expensive apartments would subsidize nearby rental and co-operative units reserved for families making as little as $16,500 a year.
The new 19-acre development, to be called Southtown, would be the third large housing development on the island. Half of the 1,956 new apartments would sell for an average of $272,000 and would command views of the East River's West Channel and the Upper East Side of Manhattan. 
The other half, about evenly divided between rental and owner-occupied units, would face Queens and be affordable to families earning, under current guidelines, up to $48,000 a year, according to the request for proposals sent to developers.
Developers have until the end of November to submit proposals to the project's sponsors, the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the Roosevelt Island Operating Corporation, and the New York City Partnerhip, a private group that constructs housing for low- and middle-income residents on city-owned land.
Gov. Mario M. Guomo is scheduled to announce the construction plan next Thursday. The first apartments are to be available for occupancy in late 1992, and officials expect the entire project to be completed a year later.
By the end of this month, after many delays, the Transit Authority plans to open the Roosevelt Island subway station on the N and R lines. Officials hope this link to Manhattan and Queens will enhance the market for housing on Roosevelt Island. At present the island is accessible only by aerial tramway from Manhattan and by car from Queens.
 
One Site Would Remain Open
With the development of Southtown, only one remaining site on the island, next to the southern tip, would remain open.
The request for development proposals for Southtown contains strict design guidelines to preserve open space and maintain views of the East River and the Manhattan and Queens skylines. The sponsors have specified that the project comprise seven towers, four facing Manhattan and three facing Queens. Between them are to be two nine-story U-shaped buildings containing retail space and most of the rental housing for low- and moderate-income residents. $25 Million in Subsidies Southtown would be about half the size of Lincoln Towers, the 3,900-apartment complex between 66th and 70th Streets on the West Side of Manhattan. Added to the more than 3,200 apartments already built on Roosevelt Island, the new project would make the island one of the largest housing developments in the city.
Besides providing the land, the city and state are to contribute about $25 million in subsidies for the 971 apartments reserved for families meeting income guidelines. More than half are to be condominiums or co-ops.
But the state and city expect income from the sale of the 982 luxury apartments to provide the greatest benefits to Southtown's affordable housing, just as the city is using money from ground leases on expensive market-rate housing at Battery Park City in lower Manhattan to pay for Mayor Edward I. Koch's housing rehabilitation program elsewhere in the city.
 
A Mix of Incomes Planned
A total of 101 apartments, of which 28 are to be co-ops and the rest rentals, would be reserved for people making no more than half the median income for the metropolitan area at the time -or $16,500, given the current median income of $33,000 a year.
Another 101 apartments, divided in the same way, are to be reserved for those making no more than 80 percent of the median, or $26,400 today.
For families making 120 percent of median income, or $39,600, there are to be 159 co-ops and 23 rentals, and a similar number of units for families earning 148 percent of median income, or $48,839.
Besides this so-called ''cross subsidy,'' officials say, the city is committed to fostering the social and economic integration of Roosevelt Island, which is home to the well-to-do and the poor and disabled.
''We feel very strongly about maintaining this kind of mix, and it all added up to put it together this way,'' said Richard L. Higgins, the Commissioner of the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal.

GRAPHIC: Photo of a model of Southtown, Roosevelt Island's third major housing development, near the Queensboro Bridge. (Wolfgang Hoyt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: CO-OPERATIVE BANK PLC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; ROOSEVELT ISLAND (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; RENTING AND LEASING; APARTMENT HOUSES CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (69%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER



300 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH;
Personal Health

BYLINE: By Jane E. Brody

 BODY:
Many women at or past the age of menopause are worried and confused about taking hormones to replace the ones their ovaries are no longer producing in ''adequate'' amounts.
On the one hand, they hear, estrogen replacement can perpetuate their premenopausal immunity against heart attacks and it can stop the otherwise inexorable loss of bone with age, a loss that eventually leads to osteoporosis and debilitating fractures in millions of older women.
On the other hand, women are warned that postmenopausal estrogens can increase their risk of developing cancer of the uterus, gallbladder disease and possibly cancer of the breast as well.
They are told that the uterine cancer risk can be negated by taking a second hormone, progesterone or progestin (a synthetic version of progesterone), for about 10 days a month. But they are also advised that by taking progesterone they will continue to have menstrual-like bleeding each month and that, in addition, this hormone may wipe out the benefits of estrogen to the heart. 
Among gynecologists who treat menopausal women, the pendulum is now swinging away from adding progesterone to the regimen, particularly since annoyance with monthly bleeding is why most women stop taking postmenopausal hormones.
About the only certainty surrounding hormone therapy is its unquestioned effectiveness at countering the sometimes life-disrupting symptoms of menopause, from hot flashes that are embarrassing and can seriously disturb sleep to vaginal dryness and atrophy that can cause pain and bleeding during sexual intercourse.
Many women may take replacement hormones for only a year or two, resuming if their hot flashes recur. But what should women do for their remaining postmenopausal years, which could easily represent a third or more of their lives?
At a conference last month, the first meeting of a newly established medical organization, the North American Menopause Society, experts explored the risks and benefits of hormone therapy as currently understood from admittedly less-than-ideal scientific studies. The conference, held under the auspices of the New York Academy of Sciences, was clearly stacked in favor of hormone replacement, with no speakers adamantly against it. But the speakers also acknowledged a desperate need for more and better studies on which to base their advice to women.
The confusion over estrogen's link to cancer is a case in point. Women who choose not to take hormones often cite a fear of cancer as their reason, said Dr. Trudy L. Bush, an epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. But she noted that heart disease, not cancer, is far and away the leading killer of women after menopause. Heart disease takes on average 12 lives a year among every 2,000 women over 50 years old, as against two deaths a year from breast cancer.
Even if hormone therapy doubled a woman's chances of getting breast cancer (and there is no good evidence that it does), it would not come near to canceling estrogen's life-saving potential, she said. In her view, any measure that significantly diminishes the risk of heart disease in postmenopausal women is likely to save far more lives than it may take.
Dr. Rogerio Lobo, obstetrician-gynecologist at the University of Southern California, presented even more dramatic statistics. Factoring in what is known about the risks and benefits of estrogen therapy, he calculated that each year among 100,000 women 50 to 75 years old, the treatment would save 5,561 lives, 5,250 of them from averted heart attacks.
The problem with all these calculations is that they are based on the incidence of disease observed among women who have chosen to take postmenopausal hormones. It is well established that these women tend to be better educated and economically better off than women who do not take these hormones. Thus, on average, hormone-takers are probably a healthier group to start with.
Unfortunately, a long-term study that would eliminate this bias is not likely to be done. In such a study hormone treatment would be randomly assigned to half of thousands of participants, who would then be followed for a decade or more. But the National Institutes of Health decided this would be too costly and long. Instead, the N.I.H. is sponsoring a study of the effects of hormone replacement on cardiovascular risk factors like cholesterol levels in the blood.
 
Hormones and the Heart
Meanwhile, millions have to decide about hormone therapy based on the best evidence available. Given the statistics cited above and the national concern about cholesterol and heart disease, the most pressing facts to consider involve cardiac risk in postmenopausal women. These are the principal considerations:
* Before menopause, women rarely suffer heart attacks or other symptoms of cardiovascular disease. But within a few years after menopause, their rates of heart disease equal those of men 6 to 10 years younger, a situation that continues for the rest of their lives. And while the rate among women never catches up to that among men, cardiovascular disease is by far the leading cause of death of American women after menopause.
* Natural estrogens can protect the heart by raising blood levels of beneficial HDL-cholesterol, believed to be the body's means of cleansing itself of cholesterol that might otherwise be deposited in arteries. The typical increase in HDL's among women taking estrogen can change their risk of heart disease from high to moderate or, if it was moderate to start with, from moderate to low.
* Estrogens also seem to benefit arteries independently of their effect on HDL-cholesterol. Evidence from animal studies, as well as from women who had heart surgery and subsequent arterial studies, suggests that estrogens prevent the formation of fatty deposits on arterial walls, the disease process that underlies most heart attacks and strokes.
* Studies of many thousands of women followed for a decade or more indicate that the overall cardiovascular benefit to women taking postmenopausal estrogens is a halving of their risk of dying of a heart attack, compared with other women their age who do not take the hormones.
* Whether taking progesterone or progestins along with estrogen will negate this benefit is not yet known. But Dr. Lobo said progesterone blunts the beneficial effect of estrogens on HDL's, alters factors that may protect blood vessels from fatty deposits and raises blood levels of another group of fats, triglycerides, which are associated with an increased risk of heart disease. Different progestins and lower dosages are now being introduced in therapy in hopes of avoiding these effects.
* It is also not known whether the benefits to the heart observed among women taking estrogens by mouth will apply to women who use the recently introduced estrogen patches, which allow estrogen to be absorbed through the skin, resulting in less loss through metabolic processes. The patches produce lower blood levels of estrogen and permit estrogen to enter the blood without first being processed by the liver, the body's main cholesterol factory.
Dr. Wulf Utian, who organized the conference, said in an interview, ''The agents, the doses and the methods of administration are changing so fast, we don't yet know which method of hormone replacement is better and which may be worse.'' Dr. Utian, founder of the new society, is director of obstetrics and gynecology at the University Hospitals of Cleveland.
 
Other Considerations
When asked who should not take postmenopausal estrogens, Dr. Utian said he would not prescribe them for any woman who has had breast cancer or who recently suffered a blood clot or who once had a clot while taking birth control pills.
Dr. Isaac Schiff, gynecologist at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, said women with a strong family history of breast cancer should be advised that while the hormones per se would probably not add to their risk, they might be inclined to blame the treatment if they later developed breast cancer.
He and the other experts discounted a recent Swedish study suggesting long-term treatment with estrogens can raise a woman's breast cancer risk, especially if the woman took both estrogen and progesterone. What the study really showed, they said, was that women on hormones who get breast cancer are more likely to survive than breast cancer patients who have not taken estrogens, possibly because estrogen users are more closely monitored and their cancers are detected earlier.
As for cancer of the uterus, this is no problem for women who have had a hysterectomy. In many parts of the country, as many as 40 to 50 percent of postmenopausal women have had the uterus surgically removed, Dr. Bush said.
For those who still have a uterus and are taking estrogens without progesterone, Dr. Utian insists on annual sampling of the uterine lining to detect abnormal growth of endometrial tissue and head off a potential cancer. He pointed out that uterine cancer is a slow-growing disease that is highly curable, especially when treated at an early stage.

GRAPHIC: Diagram

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: PERSONAL HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN); HEALTH PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (51%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: MENOPAUSE; ESTROGEN MENOPAUSE (97%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (92%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (92%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); STEROIDS (90%); CANCER OF THE UTERUS (90%); CANCER (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BREAST CANCER (89%); WOMEN (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (85%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); OSTEOPOROSIS (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E



301 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Companies

 BODY:
May Department Stores agreed to sell Caldor and to spin off its Venture Stores unit, ending 19 years of business in discount retailing. Caldor will be sold to an investor group that includes members of management for $500 million in cash and the assumption of $52 million in debt and lease obligations. [Page D1.] 
The issue at the heart of the Boeing strike is bonuses, and it is forcing union leaders to confront not only management but also their own members. [D1.]
Other large banks are likely to report poor earnings, following the lead of several New York banks that have already said they would take heavy losses on their loans to the third world. [D5.] Chase Manhattan reported a $1.1 billion loss for the third quarter, resulting mainly from a $1.15 billion increase in the banking company's reserve for loan losses. [D5.]
The buyout of UAL has taken an important step forward with the vote by its pilots to commit $200 million, but the machinists union has asked the Labor Department to examine the transaction to determine whether the deal is fair. [D5.]
Ramada failed to raise $230 million in ''junk bond'' financing for a restructuring, threatening the sale of its hotel units. [D5.]
United Telecommunications is combining its long-distance and local telephone businesses, including U S Sprint Communications, into one operating company. [D5.]
CBS said net income for the quarter fell 11.5 percent, largely reflecting lower income from its videocassette joint venture. [D22.] Gannett's earnings rose 11 percent, because of lower newsprint prices and cost controls at USA Today. [D22.]
 
Economy
Congressional leaders continued to seek a deal that would provide a separate vote on cutting the capital gains tax. [D1.]
The Nobel Prize in Economics was awarded to an obscure Norweigan professor, Trygve Haavelmo, whose work on testing economic theories helped pave the way for modern forecasting. [D1.]
 
International
The Bank of Japan abruptly raised its discount rate a half-percentage point in an effort to stem the dollar's surge. But the increase, announced at midday, had a negligible impact. [D1.]
 
Markets
Stocks ended lower as a weaker bond market and the selling of blue-chip issues pushed equities down for the second day. The Dow industrials dropped 11.97 points, to 2,773.36. [D10.]
Treasury note and bond prices sagged in lackluster trading as worries about a flood of new issues prompted dealers to sell securities. [D16.] Yields of money-market mutual funds surveyed by IBC/Donoghue were unchanged. [D19.]
The junk bond market came under further selling pressure, swept with rumors about large blocks of bonds being sold by dealers and investors. [D16.]
The dollar advanced against most major foreign currencies despite heavy selling by central banks. [D18.]
Frozen pork belly futures prices rose, spurred by stronger cash markets, shrinking supplies and bullish technical signals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: M (NYSE) (85%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (85%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (85%); BOEING CO (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); CURRENCIES (85%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); FUTURES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); TAX LAW (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); NEWSPRINT (64%); PORK (64%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (62%); 

PERSON: TRYGVE MAGNUS HAAVELMO (57%); 



302 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Wrangling On Gains Tax Continues

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Congressional negotiations on a budget deal that would provide a separate vote on cutting the capital gains tax continued today, marked by a round of partisan finger-pointing.
As a result of the legislators' inability to reach agreement, the Senate will begin debate Thursday on a $13 billion deficit-reduction package that includes a host of tax and spending provisions but not a cut in the capital gains tax.
Congressional leaders have said for weeks that it is unlikely that both houses will agree on how to reduce the deficit by the Oct. 16 deadline required by law. If they are right, automatic spending cuts totaling $16 billion will go into effect on Monday involving a variety of domestic and military programs.
While the initial impact of the cuts will be almost unnoticeable to most Americans, the elderly will have their Medicare reimbursements cut by 2 percent beginning Monday. 
Despite the seemingly dim prospects for reaching an agreement, Senate Democratic and Republican leaders refused to pronounce their efforts dead and planned to meet once more on Thursday morning before the deficit-reduction package comes to the Senate floor.
The Republican leader, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, said that as far as he was concerned the talks should continue even after the deficit package came up for debate.
Last week, the House approved an $11 billion deficit-reduction plan that includes a two-year reduction in the capital gains tax. But most senators, including supporters of a lower gains tax, object to a temporary reduction, saying it is economically unsound.
President Bush, in his election campaign, had promised to press for a permanent reduction in the capital gains tax, saying it would stimulate economic growth.
The collapse of the talks leaves Senate supporters of reducing the capital gains tax in political and legislative limbo. Sixty votes, rather than a simple 51-vote majority, are needed to attach such a measure to the deficit package, and proponents of the tax cut do not have that many votes.
The White House budget director, Richard Darman, spent much of today in strategy sessions with Senator Dole considering whether to continue to try to include the gains tax proposal in the deficit package, and if so, which version of a gains cut to propose.
 
'The Psychology of Losing'
''It's a question of the psychology of losing,'' said Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee. ''Does losing on the deficit package make things more difficult later or does it give you a chance to make a point now by losing with 54 votes in favor of capital gains reduction?''
The talks between Congressional leaders in both parties have been under way for nearly a week in hopes of producing a compromise on the deficit-reduction measure that would strip various tax and spending provisions from the bill, and at the same time, allow supporters of reducing the gains tax a separate vote on that measure.
Senate leaders in both parties said today that they would try to strip some extraneous provisions from the deficit package that will reach the floor Thursday.
That process could prompt an effort to jettison hundreds of millions of dollars in special tax breaks that are part of the Senate Finance Committee's portion of the package. It could also jeopardize a pet Democratic child care initiative adopted by the tax panel.
 
Differing Versions
The House has approved an $11 billion deficit package, including the temporary capital gains tax cut, and the two chambers will eventually have to work out their differences in conference. Among the provisions in the House package are a child care plan different from the Senate's; restoration of the fairness doctrine in the regulation of broadcasting; repeal of last year's catastrophic health insurance law; legislation to restrict so-called dial-a-porn telephone services and revisions in pension plan laws.
Some House Democrats suggested today that the conference that will follow Senate action on the deficit package could be so protracted that some of the automatic cuts could seriously affect programs like student loans and disaster relief to farmers.
As members of the Senate Budget and Finance Committees grapple with the complicated legislative mechanics of the deficit package, Senate leaders turned their attention to the political fallout.
Mr. Dole took to the Senate floor today to accuse Democrats of failing to respond to three offers from Republicans.
''It's pretty hard to have an agreement unless there are offers and counteroffers, and we're still waiting for a counteroffer,'' he said.
Democrats said the White House had thwarted a deal by placing its desire for a capital gains cut above the necessity of passing a responsible deficit-reduction package before the Monday deadline.
Senator George Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, has complained about the White House stance, and today the House Speaker, Thomas S. Foley of Washington, took up the cry.
''I'm confused by the statements coming out of the White House,'' he told reporters. ''I don't know how we can be dealing on the one hand with the negotiations to allegedly produce a stripped-down bill here with Republican leadership people, and Mr. Fitzwater saying on the other hand that he doesn't support the position of the Republican leaders and wants to keep capital gains in the bill.''
The Senate is scheduled to work through Thursday and Friday on the deficit-reduction package, and Mr. Mitchell said he would not rule out a weekend session. If supporters of a capital gains cut choose not to offer their proposal as an amendment to that package, or if they do and lose, they might seek to add their proposal to a bill later this month to raise the national debt limit.
The Government is operating under a short-term debt ceiling that expires on Oct. 31. Congress must approve either a long-term extension or another interim measure by that date in order to permit the Treasury to continue borrowing in the bond markets.
Treasury officials said today that they had no plans at this time to seek a short-term debt extension, but Mr. Packwood said that situation could change if the Senate nears the Oct. 31 deadline and finds itself bogged down with the usual array of amendments that senators attach to such legislation, in the hope of sweeping them through the legislative process.
Among the many versions of a capital gains cut circulating on Capitol Hill, the two leading contenders are a proposal by Senator Packwood and a similar but considerably more generous measure proposed by Senator David Boren, an Oklahoma Democrat who also serves on the Finance Committee. Mr. Packwood said in an interview today that he and Mr. Boren were trying to meld their plans in hopes of offering a bipartisan capital gains reduction proposal.
''I still haven't decided when to offer it,'' Mr. Packwood said, adding that even if he chooses the debt ceiling legislation as the vehicle he will still have to muster 60 votes to shut off any filibuster that might be mounted by opponents of a capital gains cut.
''You take your openings as they come,'' Mr. Packwood said. ''I think we may be a few votes short the first time or the second time, but we will all know when that last train is leaving the station, and I think on a final vote we will get the 60.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CAPITAL GAINS TAX CAPITAL GAINS TAX (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MEDICARE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



303 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Norwegian Wins Nobel For His Work in Economics

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM, Oct. 11

 BODY:
The Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science was awarded today to an obscure Norwegian professor whose pioneering work in methods for testing economic theories helped pave the way for modern economic forecasting.
Trygve Haavelmo (pronounced TRIG-veh haw-VEL-mo), 77 years old, was honored for his work in the 1940's, which resulted in a dramatic change in the way economists drew conclusions from statistical observations of how various parts of the economy affect one another. While economics will always be an inexact science, Dr. Haavelmo's methods were crucial in making it more exact, and thus more useful to society.
His techniques made it possible for others to develop mathematical models, known as econometric models, said Assar Lindbeck, chairman of the prize committee at the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. 
A model can be used to predict the impact of a particular rise or fall in interest rates on the level of personal consumption or how a tax change might affect the availability of labor or the level of capital investment.
Dr. Haavelmo's contribution is ''the story of how economics was transformed from armchair instinct to empirical science,'' said Bengt-Christer Ysander, a member of the prize committee.
Yet those who know Dr. Haavelmo said his main interest was not forecasting. ''His interest was to show by appropriate methods that we could adequately and accurately test the validity of economic theories and thus better use them to better understand economic phenomena,'' said D. Gale Johnson, an economics professor at the University of Chicago, where Dr. Haavelmo worked in the 1940's and as a visiting professor in the late 1950's. ''I don't think he had any great interest in forecasting.''
Economists noted that others, like Lawrence Klein, also a Nobel laureate, had used the Norwegian's techniques to build forecasting models.
All the sophisticated econometric models developed since the 1940's ''rest on Haavelmo's work,'' said Robert M. Solow, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who won the Nobel Memorial Economics Prize in 1987.
Dr. Haavelmo retired in 1979 and is now a professor emeritus at the University of Oslo.
Dr. Haavelmo could not be reached today through the university, but Reuters said he had told Norway's state radio: ''I am very surprised. Such awards should really go to much younger people. I have had much pleasure from what I've been doing, and all the interesting things I have been allowed to take part in so far have really been reward enough.''
Mr. Haavelmo will receive a diploma, a medal and three million Swedish kronor ($462,820).
The economics prize was established by the bank in 1968 as a memorial to Alfred Nobel, who invented dynamite, and was first awarded the following year. Nobel prizes in physics, chemistry, medicine, literature and peace were set up under the terms of Mr. Nobel's will.
The prize committee singled out as especially influential Dr. Haavelmo's doctoral dissertation, ''The Probability Approach in Econometrics.'' After World War II began, Dr. Haavelmo left Norway for the United States and presented his dissertation at Harvard in 1941. The dissertation was published three years later in the American periodical Econometrica. He returned to Norway in 1947.
One of Dr. Haavelmo's significant contributions was proving that economists could be more precise by integrating statistical probability theory into their formulations.
Dr. Haavelmo was important for demonstrating that relations among all the components of the economy must be considered in making a prediction about one component. For instance, exchange rates are not the only factor that affect the level of imported goods. So do interest rates and tax rates, to name two.
Dr. Haavelmo was born in Skedsmo, Norway, in 1911 and graduated from the University of Oslo in 1933. He was then hired by Ragnar Frisch as a research assistant at the new Institute of Economics in Oslo.
In the 1930's, Jan Tinbergen, a Dutchman, and Professor Frisch did work on testing various macroeconomic relations that won them the first Nobel Memorial Prize in 1969. Several problems they encountered were later analyzed in Dr. Haavelmo's dissertation.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Trygve Haavelmo talking with reporters from his car (Agence France-Presse) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORWAY (94%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); OSLO, NORWAY (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (63%); 

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; ECONOMICS AWARDS & PRIZES (94%); MODELING & SIMULATION (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MATHEMATICS (76%); CONSUMPTION (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; HAAVELMO, TRYGVE (PROF) TRYGVE MAGNUS HAAVELMO (94%); 



304 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Japan Lifts Discount Rate; Dollar Still Gains

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 11

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan surprised the foreign exchange market here today by abruptly raising its discount rate a half-percentage point in an effort to stem the dollar's surge. But the increase, announced at midday, had a negligible impact, prompting concerns that central banks are running out of tools for taming the dollar.
''Essentially, they got mugged,'' said Kenneth S. Courtis, senior economist here for Deutsche Bank A.G., referring to the Bank of Japan's move. ''They've tried to intimidate the currency market, and what that market is saying is that it is going to take much more to change things.'' 
After the announcement that the rate would rise to 3.75 percent, from 3.25 percent, effective immediately, the dollar tumbled here to 142.55 yen, from its early morning high of 144.95 yen. By the end of trading, though, it had bounced back to 144.00. In trading in New York and elsewhere, the dollar advanced against most currencies. [Page D18.] The United States Federal Reserve, the Bank of Japan and the major European central banks - the monetary authorities of the Group of Seven industrial nations - have spent close to $12 billion in recent weeks to try to push the dollar below the 140-yen level, all to reduce the United States' yawning trade deficit.
In addition, nine European central banks initiated a coordinated interest rate rise last Thursday to halt aggressive dollar buying. In theory, a weaker dollar makes American goods cheaper overseas, helping exports, while discouraging imports by making them more expensive.
But the dollar has remained strong, fueled on Tuesday by remarks in Moscow by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, that indicated that he did not believe direct intervention to weaken the dollar would work in the long term. He also gave priority to holding down inflation in the United States, which was interpreted to mean that the Fed would not lower interest rates soon, as some had expected. Higher interest rates in the United States increase the value of the dollar, as capital flows into higher-yielding dollar-denominated investments.
 
Unprecedented Manner
There had been talk here for weeks that the central bank might be contemplating an increase in its discount rate, which is the interest rate it charges on loans to banks. But the abrupt manner in which it was announced was unprecedented in recent times, indicating to analysts that the Japanese central bank is extremely worried about the dollar's recent rise.
Traditionally, the central bank has made such announcements - the last was a rise of three-fourths of a point in May - at 4 P.M., as the local markets closed, to take effect the following day. To further soften the blow, the news has generally been leaked to the local press in advance.
But today, an emergency meeting of the Bank of Japan's seven-member policy committee was secretly called for 11 A.M. At 12:45 P.M. the central bank announced that its discount rate would rise.
Satoshi Sumita, the bank's governor, began the afternoon news conference by apologizing to reporters for springing the surprise on them.
''Most people were at lunch when they made the announcement, and there was some panic initially,'' said Hiroaki Shukuzawa, assistant manager of foreign exchange at the Sumitomo Bank. $200 Million Sold Mr. Shukuzawa added that the Bank of Japan sold a small number of dollars, approximately $200 million, into the currency market near the time of the announcement, but the step had almost no impact.
Elsewhere, stock prices tumbled on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in response to the developments, with the Nikkei average falling 136.28, to 35,240.07.
Susumo Saito, chief economist at the Credit Suisse Investment Advisory Company here, said that while the dollar's strength was a factor in the increase in the discount rate, other factors were equally important. He described the increase as a ''pre-emptive measure'' to cool the economy and halt growing inflationary pressures.
The increase presents some delicate problems for the Japanese Government. In response to intense pressure from the United States for Japan to reduce its huge trade surplus, the Government has spent the last several years encouraging domestic demand, both to stem the rise in exports and to attract more imports. Now, there is concern that by raising interest rates, the Bank of Japan may be squelching consumer buying, setting the stage for an even larger trade surplus.
''This is a very delicate period for the Japanese economy because the growth rate is already slowing,'' said Richard Koo, senior economist at the Nomura Research Institute. ''I don't think they wanted to do this now, but they didn't have much choice. That's the point: they're being pushed to do things they may not want to do just to defend the currency.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 1989, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Thursday about an increase in the Japanese discount rate misidentified the person who said that while the strength of the dollar was a factor in the increase, other factors were equally important. He was Satoshi Sumita, governor of the Bank of Japan, not Susumo Saito of the Credit Suisse Investment Advisory Company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); BK (NYSE) (85%); DEUT (JSE) (84%); DBK (FRA) (84%); DBK (BIT) (84%); DBETN (JSE) (84%); DBA (ASX) (84%); DB (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; DISCOUNT RATE CENTRAL BANKS (94%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 



305 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: Boeing's Fight Over Bonuses

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE

 BODY:
The issue at the heart of the Boeing Company strike, which has idled 58,000 workers for more than a week, is a new one in the American labor movement - one that is forcing union leaders to confront not only management but also their own members.
The issue is bonuses - not the occasional Christmas turkey, but big yearly bonus checks that companies across the country are vigorously trying to substitute for raises. ''You see this effort popping up all the time,'' said Jerry Jasinowski, executive vice president of the National Association of Manufacturers.
In the concession bargaining of the early 1980's, many companies, pleading hardship, said bonuses were less costly than raises and would help give them the relief necessary for survival. Raises are folded into base pay and therefore count toward pensions, vacation and sick pay, overtime rates and, most important, are compounded by subsequent raises. Bonuses do none of this. 
But now that American business is more prosperous, union leaders are trying to reinstate substantial annual raises. The Boeing strike may become a watershed event in this struggle, and it is bringing to light an unusual obstacle. Many workers, not only in aerospace but in steel, autos, telephones and other industries, are now reluctant to give up those bonus checks, whatever their shortcomings. That is particularly true at Boeing. ''If someone offers you $3,000 to $4,000 just before Christmas, you tend to like it,'' said Reginald Newell, chief of research at the International Association of Machinists, which represents Boeing's striking production workers.
Boeing, as part of its contracts with the machinists, has paid big bonuses each Dec. 15 since 1983, which makes the huge aircraft manufacturer a pioneer in a practice that now involves 42 percent of all American workers covered by major union agreements, the Labor Department says.
At Boeing, the bonuses have become a way of life. In interviews with 35 Boeing workers, 26 said they had come to depend on the bonuses for Christmas shopping, paying credit card debt or making a down payment on a house, car or boat.
''It gives us, once a year, a little more buying power, and helps everyone catch up on debt,'' said Richard Young, a 45-year-old union shop steward and metal worker.
Economists and A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials say one reason the bonuses work so well at Boeing is that the company's work force is young, one of the youngest in American manufacturing, and young people, raising families, often have an immediate need for cash. What is more, many Boeing workers have never had a raise. Averaging 38 years of age and only six years at Boeing, they signed on after Boeing's last general wage increase, in 1982.
''Ironically, as wages lose ground to inflation, bonuses become attractive as a way to get ahead for a moment,'' said George Kohl, research director for the Communications Workers of America. ''They're like winning the lottery.''
But if the sweet tooth for bonuses among its members is a problem for a union trying to return to a more traditional system of annual wage increases, another set of circumstances gives the machinists unusual leverage at Boeing. Aircraft manufacturing is a labor-intensive industry, and Boeing cannot operate without its American workers. Unlike autos or appliances, the assembly of big airliners is not easily transferred abroad.
The work is done by teams of specialists in riveting, wing assembly, wiring, strut assembly, cockpit installation, metal binding and numerous other tasks. Other teams, also production workers, inspect each piece of work for flaws. All these people move about in cavernous, hangar-like buildings, principally in Seattle, Boeing's headquarters city, and also in Portland, Ore., and Wichita, Kan.
The strike that started at midnight on Oct. 3 emptied and silenced these buildings, and halted work on more than 30 partly built aircraft. There have been no negotiations since.
The shutdown came just as Boeing was enjoying its most profitable period ever - a prosperity that deprived the company of its justification for making bonus payments in lieu of raises. The company has piled up orders to build 1,600 planes for $80 billion, a backlog that will keep Boeing at full production for more than four years, if none of the orders are canceled. When the strike came, Boeing had been expanding its work force at the rate of 400 a week.
Referring to the union's unusual leverage, Justin Ostro, an international vice president of the machinists, said at a rally of Boeing workers just before they rejected the company's ''final offer'' for a three-year contract: ''If you aren't tough enough to fight today, you never will get anything. If you turn tail and run, don't come back in three years for more.''
But Boeing seems equally determined to resist the machinists, despite the damage this might do to profits and production schedules if the strike lasts more than two weeks. The company's long-term goal is to minimize raises and eventually move the entire work force toward a system that includes not only bonuses but also annual profit-sharing payments, Boeing executives say. These payments would rise during good times and disappear during the inevitable periodic downturns in airplane manufacturing.
The bonuses now specified in the machinists' contract would thus evolve into rewards for profitability and hard work - becoming more like the year-end rewards that executives and Wall Street brokers often get, although much smaller.
Other companies, in other industries, are pursuing a similar strategy. ''There is a broad trend among manufacturers away from raises and toward tying compensation to improvements in productivity and a company's profitability,'' Mr. Jasinowski said. ''We have discussed this at meetings of the National Association of Manufacturers.''
 
'Flexible Pay'
Frank Shrontz, Boeing's chairman, calls the new approach ''flexible pay.'' Harold Carr, a Boeing spokesman, said the company's goal of changing the way workers are paid is not likely to be achieved during the current dispute. ''There is a long-term process for dealing with the machinists union that involves flexible pay,'' he said, ''but you just don't achieve it overnight.''
The quid pro quo for accepting such flexible pay in lieu of raises might be an agreement by Boeing to forgo layoffs, company executives said. That would be quite a departure for the world's largest aircraft manufacturer, which has dealt with past downturns by laying off tens of thousands of workers.
Once in the 1970's, the work force was cut from 140,000 to 35,000 - a cutback that produced billboards in Seattle asking the last person leaving the city to please turn out the lights.
Whatever the lures, the Boeing strike is today focused squarely on the issue of bonuses versus wage increases. The company's ''final offer'' - made a day before the strike - included a wage increase of 4 percent the first year and 3 percent in each of the next two years, the first raises since 1983. Production workers now make from $8.88 to $18.42 an hour.
The proposal was in line with increases accepted earlier this year by steelworkers and telephone workers, and by employees in many other industries, according to Labor Department data. But the machinists' leaders, who had sought double-digit wage increases, rejected Boeing's offer, saying it failed even to keep wages from losing ground to inflation, now about 4.5 percent a year.
Many Boeing workers, however, had anticipated that the company would propose a relatively small wage increase.
''The only way to make a wage increase of 3 percent or 4 percent a year palatable is to have a big bonus,'' said Michael O. Fox, a 43-year-old maintenance worker who earns $35,000 in base pay, and is making payments on a home, a car and a sand buggy.
In the interviews, which took place before the company's final offer was made public, some workers even expressed the fear that a big wage increase would be too costly for Boeing, resulting in a loss of business to Airbus Industrie of Europe or the McDonnell Douglas Corporation.
''I hear a lot of people saying we are going to price ourselves out of a job,'' said Vicki Drysdale, a 35-year-old welder and union shop steward, who still favored a double-digit wage increase. ''They feel that if the company has to pay higher wages, that's going to hurt and they can't pay the stockholders.''
 
Favoring a Trade-Off
Such thinking prompted many of the 35 workers interviewed to say they would accept what they called inadequate raises if the bonus was big enough. They spoke of bonuses reaching 18 percent or 20 percent this Christmas, but the Boeing proposal came nowhere near that.
When the last contract was signed, in 1986, the first bonus was 12 percent of total income. For the next two Decembers, the bonuses were 5 percent a year. The latest proposal would sharply cut the bonus payments - to 8 percent the first year, 3 percent in 1990 and nothing in 1991.
The machinists' leadership, in a three-month educational campaign, has had difficulty convincing Boeing workers that bonuses are far less lucrative than pay increases.
One union circular, for example, noted that since 1983, Boeing had paid bonuses equal to 31 percent of each worker's gross pay. For a worker earning $12 an hour, that meant six pre-Christmas bonuses totaling $7,738. If the same 31 percent had been in the form of raises folded into base pay, then the simple process of compounding would have produced more than three times as much new income: $25,938 during the six years.
 
Illustrating the Point
Videotapes prepared by Machinists District 751, which includes most Boeing production workers, used vivid charts to illustrate this.
''Even with all that explanation, people still wanted bonuses,'' a union official said. ''There is that big lump of money all at once instead of a few extra dollars in each weekly paycheck. I can think of no other explanation.''
John Dunlop, Secretary of Labor in the Ford Administration, and now a Harvard economist, said that while bonuses seem popular today, that popularity would disappear quickly if the inflation rate rose sharply.
The sharp rise would quickly erode wage values, he said, and Boeing workers satisfied with bonuses today would begin fighting for raises. ''A low inflation rate is a critical prerequisite for bonuses,'' he said. ''You change that, and they would no longer proliferate.''

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the bonuses for employees of Boeing Company from '83-'88 (source: Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (95%); BAB (BRU) (95%); BA (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (95%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STRIKES; LABOR; BONUSES; WAGES AND SALARIES LABOR UNIONS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (68%); PERSONAL DEBT (66%); AIRLINES (63%); SICK LEAVE (53%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS



306 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Analysts Expect More Banks to Post Loan Losses

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Led by large New York banks that have already announced plans to take heavy losses on their loans to less-developed countries, other banks are likely to report poor earnings for the third quarter, analysts say.
''The losses at a few big banks will set the tone for the quarter,'' said James J. McDermott Jr., executive vice president at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, a New York-based securities firm that specializes in banking companies. ''Under the cover of increasing their reserves for loans to less-developed countries, banks will see an opportunity to clean up a lot of other problems.''
For regional and small banks, analysts said, poor results are more likely to be overlooked by investors when the results for the entire industry are bad. Therefore, these banks may recognize other loan losses at this time. 
 
'The Big-Bank Theory'
J. Richard Fredericks, a banking analyst at Montgomery Securities in San Francisco, said the deteriorating loan quality and pressure on interest margins (the difference between the interest rates on banking deposits and loans) are the impediments to strong earnings growth at most banks this quarter.
Since 1989 is not going to be a good year, banks are operating on ''the big-bang theory,'' Mr. Fredericks said. ''If you are going to take a hit to earnings, bankers figure they might as well take a big one.''
The Chase Manhattan Corporation yesterday became the first large bank to announce a third-quarter loss - a $1.1 billion deficit, which it had warned investors to expect. When Chase set aside $1.15 billion as a reserve for losses on loans to less-developed countries, it said it would also take after-tax losses of $85 million from real estate lending at an Arizona bank subsidiary and $25 million from its securities-trading operations.
 
Other Big Losses Expected
The Manufacturers Hanover Corportion, which expects to lose $775 million this quarter, and J. P. Morgan & Company, which expects to lose $1.8 billion, have issued similar advance notices. All three companies attributed the losses to the extra reserves for potential losses on third-world loans. The conditions of the loan agreement reached with Mexico last month and deteriorating circumstances in other countries required greater reserves, executives at the three banks said.
Mr. Fredericks said the Bankers Trust Company and the Chemical Banking Corporation were also likely to announce large additions to their loss reserves for third-world loans this quarter and could report quarterly losses as a result. Investors often favor banks with larger reserves because they can write off the loans and substract the loss from reserves rather than from earnings.
Citicorp, the largest lender to less-developed countries and the banking company most committed to continuing lending to those countries, is not likely to increase its reserves this quarter, Mr. Fredericks said. Citicorp, however, might raise its reserves in the fourth quarter, he said, if the outcome of November's elections in Brazil is likely to make it harder for banks to collect. Brazil missed a $1.6 billion interst payment in September, which hurt earnings at several large banks, even though it did not force them to write off those loans.
 
Troubled Real Estate Loans
Real estate loans are a growing problem to bankers. In New England, the Bank of Boston Corporation said earlier this month that it was adding $370 million to its loan-loss reserve and would report a loss of about $125 million for the quarter.
''We see asset deterioration across the country, with provisions for loan losses rising and nonperforming loans increasing,'' said Lawrence W. Cohn, a banking analyst at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
Another emerging threat to bank earnings are problems related to loans used to finance highly leveraged transactions, like corporate buyouts. At the Bank of Boston, one highly leveraged loan of more than $100 million was placed on nonperforming status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (86%); JPM (LSE) (86%); 8634 (TSE) (86%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (86%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (86%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (86%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (57%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL



307 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Dow Off 11.97 in Reaction to Weaker Bonds

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stocks ended lower yesterday as a weaker bond market and the selling of blue-chip issues pushed equities down for the second day.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 11.97 points, to 2,773.36. The average, which had set five records in a row before falling 6.08 points on Tuesday, was off nearly 25 points about noon yesterday. It gradually recovered some of that loss, before gaining strongly in the last hour. 
Declines on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered advances by a wide 1,021 to 458. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.14 points, to 356.99, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index was off 1.19 points, to 197.81.
''Uncertainties in interest-rate direction, combined with a strong dollar, are causing investor nervousness,'' said James Kalil Sr., president of Compu-Val Investments Inc. in Wilmington, Del. ''A retreat from an historically high area is also quite normal.''
He said downward movements could continue until the outlook was clarified for interest rates, the economy and corporate earnings.
Mr. Kalil's assessment of the stock market was shared by Larry Kekst, senior portfolio manager at the National City Corporation in Cleveland. ''Equities took their cue from the strong dollar and the weak bond market to post a slow, orderly decline on the day,'' he said, adding that the late attempt at a rally cut the losses in half. ''The moderate volume indicates a lack of real investor conviction.''
Volume on the Big Board, which has faltered of late, rose to 164.1 million shares yesterday from 147.6 million on Tuesday.
The Dow Jones transportation average showed unusual weakness, plunging 21.34 points, to 1,484.53. The AMR Corporation led the retreat dropping 4 1/4, to 97 1/8. Arbitragers have been speculating in the stock, and AMR has not responded to an offer by Donald J. Trump to acquire the company for $120 a share.
Other airline issues also declined. UAL fell 2 1/4, to 281 3/4; Delta declined 2 5/8, to 77 1/8, and Pan Am was unchanged at 3 7/8.
Among other individual issues, Compaq Computer dropped 1 3/4, to 100 1/2, but the company said it knew of no reason for the decline.
Gulf States Utilities fell 2 1/8, to 12 1/8, and was the most active issue on the Big Board, with 7.5 million shares traded. The company said it was evaluating its options regarding an adverse judicial decision on its River Bend nuclear power plant. The options include an appeal of the Louisiana judge's decision that upholds state regulators' refusal to allow the utility to recover certain portions of the plant's construction cost.
 
Rumors About Paramount
Paramount Communications rose 1 1/2, to 65 1/4, on renewed rumors that the company might be a takeover candidate.
Chase Manhattan fell 1, to 43 3/4, after reporting a $1.1 billion loss for the third quarter. Shares of other big banks were mixed, with Manufacturers Hanover off 1/4, to 43 1/2, and Citicorp up 1/4, to 34 3/4.
On the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market-value index dropped 1.35 points, to 395.68, while in over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index declined 1.98 points, to 482.16.

GRAPHIC: Favorite Stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (75%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (82%); COMPU-VAL INVESTMENTS INC (69%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (67%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (67%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); US DOLLAR (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (63%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (63%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); POWER PLANTS (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



308 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
'Junk Bond' Market Comes Under Selling Pressure

BYLINE: By ANISE WALLACE

 BODY:
The 'junk bond' market came under further selling pressure yesterday, swept with rumors about large blocks of bonds being sold by dealers and investors. Prices of some large, actively traded issues like RJR Holdings were quoted down a point and a half, or $15 for every $1,000 face amount.
''If there's a whiff of bad news, people are dumping bonds,'' said a trader at one major firm. ''They prefer to take a one-point hit rather than wait a week and see them down 10 points.'' 
Prices of Trump Taj Mahal bonds were quoted down three points, after a helicopter crash on Tuesday killed three executives of Donald J. Trump's casino operations. Prices of bonds of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc. have fallen more than five points in the last four days, one trader said. Some investors are disappointed by the amount the company received from the sale of its Sea World theme parks to Anheuser-Busch Inc.
 
Turner Offering Popular
But investors clamored to buy a $550 million offering of debentures by Turner Broadcasting System. A day earlier, Turner offered $250 million in debt securities.
Some investors said they perceived economic strength in the company's broadcasting franchises. The bonds were priced to yield 12 1/8 percent and at the end of the day prices in the secondary market were up slightly.
''Given the rating of the company I would have thought that they would yield at least 13 percent,'' said Barbara L. Kenworthy, a bond fund manager at the Dreyfus Corporation in New York. ''That tells you the market thinks it's likely to be upgraded.''
Because RJR is one of the most heavily traded junk bonds and is often sold when institutional investors want to raise cash, some investors speculated that mutual funds or savings and loans associations were liquidating some holdings. Traders said a large number of RJR zero-coupon bonds were sold in the afternoon and rumors circulated that the seller was Goldman, Sachs & Company.
A spokesman fore the firm said it did not sell or trade any RJR securities yesterday.
Michael S. Hyland, a managing director of Salomon Brothers Asset Management, said his firm was helping some savings institutions sell their junk bonds and he had been told by lawyers in Washington that they could not swap their junk bonds for other debt securities, as some investors had hoped.
As a result, he said, savings associations are likely to sell the most liquid issues like RJR first.
One company that met with a poor reception was Aztar, the successor to the Ramada Corporation, which last week had postponed and overhauled its offering of $400 million of new securities last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (82%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: DREYFUS CORP (82%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (82%); HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH INC (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (55%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (85%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); CASINOS (55%); HELICOPTERS (54%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, ANISE C DONALD TRUMP (54%); 



309 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Gains Despite Moves By Japan and Central Banks

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar advanced yesterday against most leading foreign currencies despite heavy selling by central banks and an unexpected rise in the Japanese discount rate. The British pound continued to fall against the dollar.
Gold prices rose in New York after falling slightly overseas. 
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery closed at $362 a troy ounce, a $1 increase from Tuesday. The Republic National Bank of New York quoted a late bid for gold at $361.50 an ounce, up 50 cents.
Currency dealers said the dollar initially fell after the Bank of Japan announced it would raise its discount rate - the interest rate charged to member banks - to 3.75 percent, from 3.25 percent.
 
Intervention Not a Factor
But the dollar soon shrugged off that unexpected news, as well as reports of widespread intervention by the Federal Reserve, the Bank of Japan and several European central banks, they said.
One European dealer said the central bank dollar-selling was effective only in ''taking the sting out of what looked to be a fairly vicious upward move.''
J. Thomas Stanley, manager of corporate foreign exchange for the Chemical New York Capital Markets Group, said the dollar was being supported by the belief that United States interest rates would hold steady.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose 1.67 yen from Monday to close at 144.00 yen. Tokyo's markets were closed Tuesday for a national holiday. The yen was quoted at 144.50 yen in London and 144.50 yen in New York.
 
Pound Falls From Tuesday
The pound fell against the dollar. It cost $1.5425 for one pound in London, cheaper than $1.5580 late Tuesday. Sterling fetched $1.5460 in New York, down from $1.5520.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Tuesday's rates, included: 1.9155 West German marks, up from 1.9083; 6.4900 French francs, up from 6.4655; 1.6800 Swiss francs, up from 1.6670; 1.17475 Canadian dollars, down from 1.17625, and 1,402.00 Italian lire, up from 1,394.875.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with Tuesday's rates, included: 1.9185 West German marks, up from 1.8965; 1.6785 Swiss francs, up from 1.6545; 6.4925 French francs, up from 6.4300; 2.1630 Dutch guilders, up from 2.1290; 1.1750 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1735, and 1,403.25 Italian lire, up from 1,382.40.
Gold fell in London to $361.25 an ounce from late Tuesday's $362. In Zurich, gold closed at $361.50 an ounce, down from $362. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell 0.72 cent to close at $362.36 an ounce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (74%); SWITZERLAND (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); ZURICH (52%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES; GOLD CENTRAL BANKS (95%); CURRENCIES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GERMAN MARK (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 



310 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 22, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Profits of Gannett Rose By 11% in Third Quarter

BYLINE: By ALBERT SCARDINO

 BODY:
The Gannett Company said yesterday that lower newsprint costs and cost controls at its USA Today newspaper helped profits rise 11 percent in the third quarter.
But the increase did not impress newspaper stock analysts. ''Some of the gain came from the sale of El Diario, a Spanish-language daily newspaper in New York City,'' said John S. Reidy, an analyst at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. ''Some came from lower interest costs.'' 
Those items aside, income from operations rose only 7 percent, and that was from lower newsprint costs and advertising rate increases, Mr. Reidy said. Advertising volume declined, as it has for most of the last two years throughout the newspaper industry.
 
Gain of 5 Cents a Share
Gannett, based in Arlington, Va., said after-tax profits for the three-month period that ended Sept. 24 totaled $83.1 million, or 52 cents a share, compared with $75.1 million, or 47 cents a share, for the comparable period in 1988. Operating revenue rose 3 percent, to $827.9 million, from $804.3 million. a year earlier.
At USA Today, Gannett's national daily newspaper, the number of advertising pages in the quarter fell more than 9 percent, to 785 from 865, though revenue rose as a result of higher advertising rates and increases in the circulation rate base for the newspaper.
In addition to its 83 daily newspapers, Gannett owns 35 non-daily newspapers, television and radio stations and interests in outdoor advertising and television programming.
The company showed a higher loss from its share of GTG Entertainment, Mr. Reidy said. GTG produces ''USA Today: The Television Show,'' and other programs.
 
Effect of Summer Olympics
Revenue from both newspaper and broadcasting operations suffered when compared with results a year earlier because of the absence of promotional spending associated with the Summer Olympics in September 1988, Mr. Reidy said. Special promotions of the Summer Olympics last year had helped Gannett's revenues during the quarter.
Broadcast revenues totaled $89.62 million, down from $89.73 million in the 1988 period, the company said.
''The softness in the newspaper industry may be a warning for what is to come in the rest of the economy,'' Mr. Reidy said. ''But so far, the slow growth mode has not spread to other parts of the economy, or even to other media. Television advertising has been doing well.''
Gannett's shares fel $1.50, to $43.50, in New York Stock Exchange trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: GANNETT CO

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPRINT (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); PRINT ADVERTISING (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); OLYMPICS (68%); 

PERSON: SCARDINO, ALBERT



311 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: SWEEPING CHANGE IN MEDICARE FEES NEARS FINAL STEP

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
A measure that could lead to fundamental changes in the practice and costs of medicine is heading for the Senate floor and final Congressional approval in the next few days.
The proposal, approved last week by the House of Representatives and the Senate Finance Committee, applies only to what the Government pays doctors to treat 33 million elderly people under Medicare. But health experts predict it will quickly be adopted by the private health insurers.
The Administration supports the plan and there is virtually no opposition to the proposal in the Senate, where the bill's backers predict overwhelming approval. 
 
New Standard for Fees
The measure would replace the current Medicare practice of paying doctors on the basis of ''customary, prevailing and reasonable fees'' with a standard based on the total costs of the services provided, including the costs of a doctor's training and equipment and the relative value of the technical skills needed.
Intended to redress recognized inequities in fees, the plan in general would mean that doctors involved in surgery and radiological procedures would be paid less than they now receive, while those engaged in evaluation, like family practitioners, would be paid more. But as a group surgeons would still earn more than family practitioners.
Some health experts say the new plan could ultimately change the practice of medicine by changing the financial incentives connected with certain procedures. For instance, they believe that the proposed change in fees, if adopted, would reduce the amount of invasive and radiological procedures while increasing the cost of office consultation and preventive measures practiced by family doctors and internists.
 
Reduce Test Incentives
It could also reduce the incentive to perform unnecessary tests and procedures and by making compensation more equitable it could encourage more medical school graduates to enter family practice and internal medicine, proponents of the plan say.
Historically, private insurers have followed the lead of Medicare in determining payments for certain procedures and setting standards for the length of hospital stays for certain illnesses. Experts say private insurers are expected to follow the new payment schedule, effectively setting new nationwide standards for the costs of medical procesures.
Senator Dave Durenberger, the Minnesota Republican who is the sponsor of the new payment system, predicted, ''This will very quickly be adopted across the board by the private sector.''
''It's a rationalization of the system,'' the Senator said. ''It says that this country has let specialization and technology get out of hand, and there's no longer a reasonable relationship between the dollars we pay and what we're getting.''
Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, the West Virginia Democrat who is chairman of the Finance Committee's Medicare subcommittee, predicted that the new spending plan would change the practice of medicine ''substantially, and for the better.'' He said the plan would improve West Virginia's paucity of pediatricians and obstretricians.
 
'Preferred Public Policy'
''We're establishing primary care as the preferred public policy,'' the Senator said. ''We're upgrading practitioners of primary care and preventive care and giving more attention to family physicians and wellness.''
Dr. William Hsiao, an economist with the Harvard School of Public Health, who developed the new plan, said that it could remove ''distorted incentives.''
For example, Dr. Hsiao said that a physician could perform an endoscopy, inserting a tube into a stomach to determine if a patient had ulcers, at a cost of $350. The procedure might take 30 minutes. Or he could make the determination on the basis of a complete physical examination, which takes 45 minutes and cost $75. Under the new plan, Medicare would pay considerably less than it does now for the more expensive procedure.
 
A.M.A. Endorses Plan
The plan is endorsed by the American Medical Association. ''There's only so much money in the Medicare program, and it should be equitably distributed,'' said Dr. James H. Sammons, the group's executive vice president.
But the plan has been opposed by the American College of Surgeons, whose members would suffer the greatest losses in income. Dr. W. Gerald Austin, an college official, said in testimony before Congress last June: ''This approach simply does not take into account the greater diagnostic or therapeutic value of specific services for patients. It ignores the quality of the services provided and it fails to consider other factors that play a major role in determining the value of most services purchased in our society.''
 
Part of House Budget Plan
In the House, the plan was approved as part of an overall budget bill that covers all Government agencies.
The Senate Finance Committee approved the proposal overwhelmingly.
The House of Representatives, as well as the Senate Finance Committee, also approved a limit on what doctors could charge Medicare patients to 25 percent more than the Government-approved rates. Thus, if the Government approved $1,000 for a procedure, a doctor could not charge a patient more than $1,250. The patient or his insurer would make up the difference.
In addition, the House and the Senate Finance Committee set a limit on total Medicare payments by the Government to doctors. But the House set a more stringent standard, which is opposed by the A.M.A. The medical group supports a similar Senate proposal that would be nonbinding. Last year Medicare payments to doctors increased 13.3 percent while Government spending on hospitals, which has been severely curtailed, increased only 3.8 percent.
Under the Senate bill, the plan would be gradually implemented from 1992 to 1994. Under the House bill, the plan could be fully implemented in October 1991, or begin a four-year transition in April 1990.
The differences in the two bills would be resolved in a Senate-House conference committee.
The Physician Payment Review Commission, an independent agency that monitors Medicare payments, has estimated that fees of thoracic surgeons and radiologists would be reduced by more than 20 percent, while the fees of family practitioners would be increased nearly 40 percent. The commission recommended adoption of the spending plan.
The proposed fee schedule takes many factors into account in determining the costs of a procedure. In addition to the doctor's education and equipment, it would evaluate the mental effort, judgment and stress involved as well as geographic differences in the costs of medical practices.

GRAPHIC: Table of proposed changes in payments to doctors under the Medicare fee schedule (source: Physician Payment Review Commission) (NYT) (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PHYSICIAN PAYMENT REVIEW COMMISSION (59%); PHYSICIAN PAYMENT REVIEW COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DOCTORS; RATES; FEES (PROFESSIONAL); MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE MEDICARE (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); APPROVALS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (77%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); FAMILY LAW (76%); HOSPITALS (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); 



312 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Bill to Cut Capital Gains Tax Appears Thwarted, for Now

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
Senators of both parties said today that the Democratic leadership had the votes to keep a capital gains tax cut out of the deficit-reduction package that came to the Senate floor today.
Republicans conceded that they could not muster the 60 votes needed to add the capital gains measure to the legislation. But the Republican leadership did not acknowledge defeatand it made clear that it would try to attach the tax cut to other legislation, perhaps by the end of the month.
Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, predicted that senators willing to support the Democratic leadership now would be less willing to oppose a capital gains cut if it was attached to another bill, particularly if they saw it as their last chance to vote on the gains cut this year.
''My guess is they have used up all their chits on this one,'' he said of the Democratic leadership. 
Asked by journalists if he had the votes to block an attempt to add the gains tax cut to the deficit package, the majority leader, George Mitchell of Maine, said, ''Yes, without a doubt.''
Democratic leaders said they would insist on following Senate rules and would not rule out a filibuster on future legislation. Supporters of cutting the gains tax would need 60 votes to cut off a filibuster.
The Senate debate on its $13 billion deficit-reduction package may continue into the weekend, virtually guaranteeing that the package cannot be approved and then reconciled with the $11 billion House measure before the Monday deadline. On that day, automatic spending cuts totaling $16 billion will take effect in a variety of domestic and military programs, includng a 2 percent cut in Medicare reimbursements.
In a meeting with Republican senators this afternoon, the White House budget director, Richard G. Darman, said there was ''still a possibility'' that proponents of cutting the tax on capital gains would offer an amendment to the deficit bill.
Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon, the senior Republican on the Finance Committee, had said Wednesday that even if such an effort failed, it might serve a purpose for his side by demonstrating that more than 50 senators favored some form of gains reduction.
President Bush had promised in his election campaign to pursue a reduction in the tax on capital gains, which are the profits from the sale of assets like stocks and real estate. He has said that cutting the tax would stimulate economic growth.
 
Objections to House Bill
The House's deficit-reduction package, passed last week, includes a two-year reduction in the gains tax. But senators, including those who support a lower gains tax, object to the temporary measure approved by the House.
The Senate's deficit package includes a host of tax and spending measures that some senators in both parties would like to remove, among them several provisions that have prompted veto threats from the Administration. While there will be attempts on the floor to strip some of these provisions, senators are concerned that doing so may put them at a disadvantage when they go to conference with the House.
The process of removing such provisions is further complicated by the very specific Senate definitions of what is extraneous, germane or deficit neutral. These definitions have little to do with the commonly understood meanings of those terms. In many cases, measures like the special tax breaks or the expansions in the Medicaid program included in the Senate Finance Committee's portion of the package, are in technical compliance with the Senate rules.
 
Provision on Onions
Other material in the huge deficit package may prove easier to jettison. It includes, for example, a provision stipulating that Congress considers mushrooms an important and healthful food, and a provision defining the properties of the Vidalia onion.
''When Medicare reimbursements are cut by 2 percent while we're debating the definition of a Vidalia onion, somebody is going to be very unhappy,'' Mr. Gramm said, referring to one of the automatic spending cuts that will start Monday.
Some Finance Committee provisions, including expanded tax credits to help parents pay for child care expenses and a measure to make the Social Security Administration an independent agency rather than an arm of the Department of Health and Human Services, have prompted strong objections from the Administration. Louis W. Sullivan, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, sent a letter to all the senators warning them not to act precipitously.
 
A Proposal on I.R.A.'s
The finance panel's portion of the package also includes a provision that would restore deductions for contributions to individual retirement accounts. The capital gains cut proposal that Mr. Packwood and Senator David Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma, have been drafting also envisions allowing tax-free withdrawals of savings from I.R.A.'s.
In addition to the Finance Committee, seven other panels have been trying to reduce the deficit by finding savings in programs under their jurisdiction. As was the case in the $11 billion deficit-reduction package approved by the House last week, some of the so-called savings are based on accounting gimmicks and would produce only a one-time reduction in the deficit.
For example, the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee reduced the fiscal 1990 budget by $1.7 billion simply by removing the United Postal Service from the Federal budget. The panel found another $700 million in savings by requiring that lump sum annuities for Federal employees retiring in 1990 be paid out over two years rather than one.
In other cases, Senate committees added provisions that create programs or expand existing ones:
* Changes in acreage allotments and crop deficiency payment schedules for farmers under a variety of agriculture programs would cut Federal costs. But new commodity promotion programs are proposed, and other programs revised, for a $500,000 increase in spending in fiscal 1990.
* An increase in existing user fees and penalties charged by the Federal Communications Commission and new fees on amateur radio operators, ship stations and mobile radios are together estimated to raise $43 million in new revenue for fiscal 1990. Other changes include passenger fees on both airline and cruise ship departures; new Coast Guard user fees and new fees for the rental of airport slots at Kennedy International and La Guardia in New York, O'Hare in Chicago and National Airport in Washington.
* New fees on producing, importing or distributing ozone-depleting chemicals are estimated to raise $455 million in 1990. Changes in licensing of power plants by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission are estimated to bring in $54 million in 1990.
* Reductions in Medicare payments to hospitals, a one-year freeze on increases in Medicare payments to physicians and a 2 percent cap on increases in Medicare payments for medical equipment and laboratory services would go into effect, as would expanded Medicaid coverage for low-income women and children.
* An increase in the amount that Social Security recipients between the ages of 65 and 70 could earn without having their benefits reduced is proposed. The current limit of $8,887 is scheduled to rise to $9,360 in 1990; under the proposed change, the limit would be increased to $11,700 in 1990 and $14,520 in 1991.
* Changes in the law regulating employee pension plans would permit the transfer of surpluses from overfinanced pension plans to retiree health benefit plans. Premiums employers pay to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation would rise.
* The maximum penalties the Government can impose for violations of mine safety and other occupational safety and health standards would increase significantly.
* The Department of Veterans Affairs would be given an extension of its authority to charge a 1 percent origination fee on housing loans that it guarantees.
* A provision of the 1986 tax law that prohibits discrimination against low-wage workers in employer-sponsored health benefit plans would be repealed. Small businesses complained that Section 89 of the law was too complex and burdensome to administer.
The Administration has also warned that provisions in the House-passed deficit package, including a separate child care measure, restoration of the fairness doctrine in broadcasting and changes in pension laws might provoke a Presidential veto.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; VETOES (US); CAPITAL GAINS TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEFICIT REDUCTION ACT POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (94%); TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); FILIBUSTER (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); VETO (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); MEDICARE (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); RASKY, SUSAN F GEORGE W BUSH (74%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (73%); PHIL GRAMM (59%); 



313 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Teheran Journal;
Islamic Street Scene: Add a Whisper of Lipstick

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran, Oct. 7

 BODY:
Militancy, once a trademark of this capital city, appears increasingly associated with poor taste.
''What used to be a challenge is becoming normal,'' said a middle-aged man who belongs to the much-maligned Iranian aristocracy. ''You may even say boring.''
After 10 years of amusing himself beating back challenges to his way of life imposed by the Islamic revolution, he says the stern ramparts on codes of behavior, dress and music are crumbling. 
''I guess our quality of life is improving, although our standard of living keeps sinking,'' he said with the wry smile of a skeptic.
He still goes to work shaved and wearing a necktie, but, he says, no one objects anymore, although neckties, and neatly shaven beards, have long been viewed as unbecoming displays of vanity for Muslim men in revolutionary Iran. His Armenian wine and vodka supplier brings the refreshments to his doorstep with the serene reliability of a milkman, every week.
It is more than just an upper-class rebellion in today's Teheran. Iranians seem to be giving up their need to embrace issues with demonstrative fervor.
Since Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini died in June, no one can remember a single rally here against ''satanic'' superpowers or anything else.
 
Fashion Notes
A hint of cosmetics can be spotted on many women's faces. They are apparently no longer worried that they may be arrested or reprimanded.
A visitor back in Teheran for the first time since the Ayatollah died notices that now about half the women on the street wear, instead of the traditional black chador, a long, loose modest dress with a scarf around the head. The face is fully in view.
Head scarves, often maroon but sometimes a daring rose shade, are now worn farther back, showing a large fringe of hair, something that used to be incorrect. And it is not unusual to see a touch of eye makeup, rouge or even lipstick.
All things being relative, for all practical purposes Teheran is returning to a somewhat normal pace.
 
Zipping Through Customs
Since he sternly criticized tedious searches at the airport in his Friday speech of Sept. 29, President Hashemi Rafsajani has produced results: Teheran's international airport has just acquired a green exit door for those who have ''nothing to declare.''
So for the first time in a decade some passengers, at least, are entering the Islamic Republic of Iran without the normally exhaustive searches of their persons and belongings.
A return visitor notices other changes as well. A graceful string of water fountains and flower beds have been added in front of the old Hilton, now called Independence Hotel. Clerks no longer seek permission to telex the United States. The coffee shop reverberates with music -Western melodies to which the steady stream of Lebanese Shiite Muslim militants visiting this country tap their feet.
 
A Visit to the Tomb
At the huge Behesht-e-Zahra cemetery on the outskirts of Teheran, only about 50 people were visiting the $2 billion cultural and tourist center under construction around Ayatollah Khomeini's tomb on a recent afternoon.
The visitors, men and women, calmly surveyed the place. There was no flinging of bodies on the gate surrounding the tomb, no shrieking, no streams of tears, as in the days just after the Ayatollah's death. Just curious tourists quietly contemplating.
 
Speaking of Prices
If there is one subject that draws passion among all Teheranis, rich and poor, it is how to live with soaring inflation.
Having finally made the top of the list of virtually all international surveys as the world's ''most expensive'' city, Teheran lives up to its reputation in a way that would be too absurd to recount if it were not true.
A pack of the local cigarettes costs 1,000 rials. At the official rate of 72 rials to the dollar, this is equivalent to $13.88. An imported pack of Winston cigarettes costs twice as much. A pair of blue jeans averages $333. A tiny two-bedroom apartment in a high-rise on an elegant tree-lined avenue runs to $300,000.
Rice, a daily staple, costs $7 a pound, and meat $10 a pound. For those with fine tastes, Iranian caviar is priced at the equivalent of $570 a pound. and pistachios at $25 a pound.
Iranians seeking to travel abroad cart money over to the black market to get a few hundred dollars for a trip to Cyprus or Turkey. The black market value of the dollar averages 1,200 rials, compared with the official 72 rials.
For the great majority of Iranians, making ends meet has become an impossible challenge.
''If I make 60,000 rials a month, this means a pack of cigarettes is worth 2 percent of my income,'' a public servant said. ''Add to this a pound of meat, a pair of pants and some rice, and you don't have anything left to make it to the end of the month. We are all in debt.''

GRAPHIC: Since the death of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in June, the stern ramparts on codes of behavior, dress and music in Iran appear to be crumbling. A stroll through the bazaar of Teheran offers less of the atmosphere of a fundamentalist Islamic republic than in the past. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN (91%); ARMENIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); 

COMPANY: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); ETHICS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); FUNDAMENTALISM (71%); TRENDS (71%); COSMETICS (70%); AIRPORTS (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (64%); HOTEL STAFF (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: KHOMEINI, RUHOLLAH (AYATOLLAH); IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M AYATOLLAH RUHOLLAH KHOMEINI (68%); 



314 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: LAW;
Public Service Fellowships

 BODY:
A fellowship program will be established at the Harvard Law School for students choosing careers in public service.
The Irving R. Kaufman Public Service Fellowship Program was created with a $1 million gift from Walter H. Annenberg, the publisher and former United States Ambassador to Britain, the school announced Wednesday. 
Robert C. Clark, the dean of Harvard Law School, said the endowment honors Judge Irving R. Kaufman of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, who is a longtime friend of Mr. Annenberg.
The fellowships will be awarded yearly, beginning next spring, to law students or recent graduates who want to enter public service, Dean Clark said. The fellows will each receive $10,000 to augment their regular salary.
 
Salary Differences Cited
The dean said the salaries of many public service salaries start at about $18,000, as opposed to about $65,000 in private law firms. As many as five fellowships may be awarded yearly, each lasting two or three years.
Harvard also awards summer fellowships for public service, he said, but this program is the first of its kind for postgraduate employment.
The announcement comes as Dean Clark has been criticized for his plans to merge the public service placement office with the general placement office. The office counsels students about careers in public service and helps finds jobs in government and other public service fields.
Dean Clark, who described the merger as a streamlining measure, said students facing high tuition costs and low-paying public service jobs would be better served by economic help than by counseling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD LAW SCHOOL

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); LAWYERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); TUITION FEES (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); APPEALS COURTS (56%); 

PERSON: ANNENBERG, WALTER H IRVING ROBERT 'IRVING R' KAUFMAN (92%); 



315 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
THE ECONOMY
 
Senate Democratic leaders said they had enough votes to keep a capital gains tax cut out of the deficit-reduction package under consideration. Republicans conceded that they could not muster the 60 votes needed to add the tax cut to the deficit legislation, but they made it clear they would try to attach the capital gains reduction to other legislation, perhaps by the end of the month. [Page A1.]
 
Regulators in California will set local telephone rates for Pacific Bell and GTE based on price caps, rather than the cost of telephone service, under a plan adopted after two years of study. Other states are expected to copy the plan. [D1.] 
 
COMPANIES
 
AMR's chairman has had talks with American Airlines' pilots about a possible buyout in which unions would be offered a large stake, a Wall Street source said. Such a buyout would be similar to one being completed at United Airlines. American has received an unsolicited $7.54 billion offer from Donald J. Trump. [D1.]
 
''Possible misrepresentations'' were made in the sale of Sheller-Globe, United Technologies said in a tender offer document. The dispute could result in a lowering of the purchase price. [D1.]
 
NBC had expressed interest in becoming an equity investor in Qintex's proposed buyout of MGM/UA. A $1.5 billion deal for MGM/ UA fell through on Tuesday. [D1.]
 
Chemical Banking and Bank of New York announced large losses for the third quarter as they increased their loan-loss reserves. Chemical said it would sell $500 million of new stock. [D2.]
 
General Electric said its earnings rose 16 percent in the third quarter, based on improvements in operations including financial services, plastics and electrical generating equipment. Earnings from broadcasting, including NBC, were flat. [D2.] Coca-Cola's profits surged 20.9 percent on strong foreign sales. [D2.]
 
Ford said it would establish a separate subsidiary for a finance company that it expects to acquire this year. The move will keep Ford's tax bill from rising by millions of dollars. [D4.]
 
An obstacle to the takeover of Connaught may have been removed, lawyers told an Ontario court. [D20.]
 
Northwest Airlines has ordered and taken options for 90 Boeing jetliners worth $5.2 billion. [D4.] A.T.&T. announced terms for licensing the Release 4.0 version of its Unix computer operating system. [D4.]
 
Roger Rosenblatt resigned as editor of U.S. News and World Report after 14 months in the job. [D6.]
 
MARKETS
 
The American Stock Exchange's new chairman will be James R. Jones, the former Democratic Representative from Oklahoma. Many on Wall Street were surprised by the appointment. [D1.]
 
Stocks fell for a third straight day. The Dow Jones industrials declined 13.52, to 2,759.84, amid some profit taking. [D6.]
 
Prices of Treasury issues rose. Trading was light as dealers awaited reports due today on producer prices and retail sales. [D12.] The dollar fell in subdued dealings. Gold prices rose. [D13.]
 
Prices of frozen pork belly futures soared amid supply concerns raised by a plan to make shipments to Poland. [D13.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Saatchi & Saatchi's co-founder will relinquish the chief executive's job. Maurice Saatchi will be replaced by Robert Louis-Dreyfus, a French executive barely known in advertising, at the top of the world's largest ad company. Analysts and executives were unsure whether the changes meant that Charles and Maurice Saatchi were surrendering control. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D1.]
 
Nobody wants a meat-ax approach to deficit cutting, but it may take a miracle to avoid it. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
The troubled ''junk bond'' market is likely to get worse before it improves, a prominent arbitrager, Robert M. Steinberg, told money managers, as holders of the bonds become increasingly suspicious of deals financed by asset sales. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); UTX (NYSE) (55%); BK (NYSE) (54%); KO (NYSE) (53%); DAL (NYSE) (52%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (84%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (61%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (55%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (54%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); BOEING CO (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAX LAW (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AIRLINES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); INCOME TAX (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); TENDER OFFERS (74%); TAKEOVERS (74%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (51%); 



316 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: California Changes Phone-Rate Structure

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 12

 BODY:
In a move watched closely by regulators in other states, the California Public Utilities Commission today approved a different way of setting rates for the state's two largest local telephone companies. The change is intended to provide freer competition in the marketplace.
Under the new rules, the rates of Pacific Bell and GTE California Inc. will no longer be based on adding a profit margin to the companies' cost. Instead, the commission will set price caps on the services. 
The change takes effect on Jan. 1, 1990, and is expected to pave the way for new services and lower phone rates.
The change follows the Federal Communications Commission's decision, in March, to allow the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, the dominant long-distance carrier, to price its services more competitively, subject to ceilings and floors.
California is the first state to adopt such a framework of price caps. ''An awful lot of states have been sitting on the fence waiting for California to act,'' said G. Mitchell Wilk, the commission's president. While each state's requirements are slightly different, Mr. Wilk predicted many regulators in other states would borrow from the California plan.
''The advance of technology and the breakup of A.T.&T. in 1984 combined to require that the P.U.C.'s traditional regulatory approach be overhauled,'' he said. ''It is no longer acceptable to allow rate payers to be at risk for competitive ventures, nor is it appropriate in light of growing competition to insulate Pacific Bell and GTE California from the efficiencies of a competitive marketplace.''
Both Pacific Bell and GTE, which had sought such a decision, said it would allow them to grow and expand their services while offering customers more competitive rates. The commission's decision came after more than two years of study and hearings.
But a San Francisco-based consumer activist group, Toward Utility Rate Normalization, or TURN, contended it would benefit the phone companies at the customers' expense. Customers will have to pay hundreds of millions of dollars more than under the current rate base, the group said. Mr. Wilk disagreed.
 
Prices Updated Annually
Among key elements of the incentive regulatory framework are these:
* Prices for basic service rates will be updated annually based on nationwide inflation rates, minus a productivity factor of 4.5 percent.
* Local calling areas will be expanded to 12 miles in 1990, from 8.
* Touch-Tone charges will be eliminated for residential customers in 1990. Touch-Tone services will be extended to all California customers.
* Earnings above 13 percent will be shared 50-50 with customers; earnings above 16.5 percent will all go to customers.
* Rates will be reduced significantly in 1990 for Pacific Bell's customers. GTE's rates were cut 20 percent last year and may change slightly in the future.
''Over all, we believe this plan is a big improvement over what we have today,'' Gary McBee, Pacific Bell's executive vice president, said in a statement. Customers get expanded service and the chance to share in Pacific Bell's profits, he said, while the company gets the opportunity to grow.
 
Productivity Factor Criticized
GTE officials were also pleased with much in the decision. But GTE called the 4.5 percent productivity factor included in the framework unrealistically high. ''We think the productivity factor should be no higher than the 2 percent to 2.5 percent level historically achieved by the telecommunications industry in excess of productivity in the overall economy,'' said Tim McCallion, GTE California's director of revenue management. ''Anything greater than that will be very difficult to achieve.''
The company has filed plans for incentive regulation in Michigan, Missouri and Washington, where it is awaiting decisions, and is studying opportunities for filings in other states where it has operations.
But TURN said the new framework would result in a windfall for the phone companies at customers' expense. Pacific Bell and GTE ''just got the door to the candy store opened and were told 'no charge,' '' said Audrie Krause, TURN's executive director. ''We've estimated that Pacific Bell will have an additional $240 million in revenues the first year, and GTE an additional $270 million,'' she said.
Ms. Krause said the commission, in approving the new framework, was ''promoting an unproven economic theory at the expense of California customers,'' who would receive little in return by way of expanded service.
Mr. Wilk replied that much of what TURN was saying ''is just not factually correct,'' and that its concerns do not reflect the vast majority of rate payers. ''They're overstating what the telephone companies can earn and ignoring the consumer benefits,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (96%); VERIZON CALIFORNIA INC (84%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (90%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (90%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION, CALIFORNIA; PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO; GTE CALIFORNIA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; RATES ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); UTILITY RATES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (72%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M



317 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Another Autumn Of Fiscal Discord

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
WITH the new fiscal year 1990 under way, and the United States operating without a Federal budget, economic battles are raging in Washington from Capitol Hill to the White House to Constitution Avenue.
If no budget resolution is enacted by Congress before next Monday on a bill that would cut the deficit enough to meet the Gramm-Rudman target of a $100 billion deficit, ''sequestration'' - mandatory cuts in both military and civilian spending -will begin at once.
Nobody wants this meat-ax approach to deficit cutting, but, according to many legislators, it will take a miracle to avoid it.
The Office of Management and Budget at the White House will have to start issuing orders next week directing the agencies that already have their appropriations to cut them by about 5 percent. Agencies with slack in their budgets might avoid immediate pain, for instance by not hiring new employees. But without a prompt budget resolution, some agencies might immediately have to begin laying off people or chopping programs. 
To escape sequestration, the Republicans may give Senator George Mitchell of Maine, the Senate majority leader, a temporary victory by backing off from their effort to attach a capital gains tax cut to the budget bill. The struggle over capital gains has been a major factor holding up a budget reconciliation.
Richard G. Darman, the director of the Budget Office, has been President Bush's point man in the fight for cutting capital gains taxes. Mr. Darman insists he has enough votes, counting the White House's Democratic allies, to win in a straight majority vote. But, under Senate rules, it would take a 60-vote majority to attach the capital gains cut to the budget bill. The Republicans, apparently lacking so large a majority, are backing off from the effort to amend the budget bill. Instead, they mean to wage the capital gains fight when the budget is out of the way.
There is utter confusion over what will actually happen on capital gains. Fights are going on over how much to cut the rate, whether to add or substitute indexation against inflation, whether to make the cut effective for only two years or permanently, whether to get rid of it altogether or whether to extend tax breaks to more people by restoring tax-deductible individual retirement accounts for everybody.
In addition, legislators representing special constituent interests have been lining up to make the capital gains cut a veritable Christmas tree with baubles for all. As a result, the basic principle of the 1986 tax law - eliminating tax loopholes while cuttting rates - is likely to be eviscerated. And, in the long run, the budget deficit will increase.
The Administration insists that the capital gains tax cut would spur economic growth enough that the Treasury would lose almost no revenue and might even pick up some extra money. But economists with Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation estimate the revenue cost of the cut at $67 billion during the next 10 years.
Washington is also seeing another fight - this one between the Treasury and the Federal Reserve. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, made a speech in Moscow that caused currency markets around the world to send the dollar up sharply. His comments raised blood pressure at the Treasury, which has been pressing the Fed to push the dollar down by cutting interest rates. Mr. Greenspan seems prepared to resist, fearing that such efforts would exacerbate inflation longer term.
But with corporate profits coming in lower than expected and signs of softness developing in autos and housing, general economic conditions could cause the Fed to relent and avoid an open fight with the Treasury.
There is a third battle going on - between the Treasury and the commercial banks over the Brady plan for rescuing third world debtors through debt reduction, new bank loans and other options. Citicorp seems to be hanging in and trying to muster wider support for the plan, which is named for Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady. Right now efforts are concentrated on trying to complete a debt deal with Mexico, but eventually there will be a protracted struggle to rescue debtors not only in Latin America and the Philippines, but in Eastern Europe as well.
William R. Rhodes, a group executive of Citicorp who is chairman of the banks' restructuring committee, said that based on conversations between members of his committee and banks around the world, ''I would estimate that as of now, roughly 80 percent of the outstandings are leaning toward debt reduction and perhaps toward new money.'' He concedes, however, that many commercial banks are annoyed with the faltering leadership of both the Treasury and the Federal Reserve on the third world debt problem.
With the United States itself deep in debt, the Administration has very shallow pockets to deal with its foreign and domestic problems and opportunities. So rhetoric is taking the place of cash, policy and leadership.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS ACT

TICKER: CCI (NYSE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITICORP (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (97%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (60%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



318 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Bank of New York and Chemical Post Big Losses

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The Chemical Banking Corporation and the Bank of New York Company announced large third-quarter losses yesterday as they greatly increased the reserves set aside to cover possible losses on loans to third world countries and to domestic businesses.
Chemical, whose financial condition was seriously weakened by the loss, announced plans to sell $500 million of new stock. It thus becomes the third-largest New York banking company in the last month to sell stock or announce a large stock offering.
Two other companies involved in stock sales, the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation and the Chase Manhattan Corporation, also announced large losses for the third quarter related to problems with foreign loans. J. P. Morgan & Company has announced a large loss for the quarter, but does not plan to sell more stock. 
 
Chemical Loan-Loss Reserves
Chemical attributed its third-quarter loss of $824.6 million to a $900 million increase in its reserve for loan losses. Two-thirds of the additional reserves, or $600 million, was for possible losses on the company's $4.5 billion of medium- and long-term loans to the third world.
The remaining $300 million of Chemical's extra reserve was for possible losses on loans at Texas Commerce Bancshares, a subsidiary plagued by losses that Chemical bought in 1987 without financial help from the Federal Government. Chemical said the additional reserves were needed because of plans for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to sell loans it has held since it arranged for the sale of other banking companies. As the F.D.I.C. sells loans, Chemical said there was increasing ''risk of downward pressure on the Texas real estate market.''
Since Chemical acquired Texas Commerce, other banking companies that have acquired troubled Texas banks have received several billion dollars of Federal assistance. The NCNB Corporation, for example, acquired the First Republicbank Corporation of Dallas last year, and the Banc One Corporation of Columbus, Ohio, acquired 20 failed banks formerly owned by Mcorp, also of Dallas, earlier this year.
''The earnings report is not pretty reading, with expenses up, net interest income down and trading profits down,'' said Brent Erenson, an analyst at the Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation.
 
Texas Economy Improvement
Mr. Erenson noted that although Chemical's actions to increase reserves and sell more stock ''do not significantly strengthen it relative to other New York City banks,'' Chemical is a special case because of its large banking operation in Texas.
Although the problems at Texas Commerce have been a drag on Chemical's profits and its financial condition in the last two years, analysts noted that the bank could become highly profitable as the Texas economy improves.
Excluding the special reserves in the latest quarter, and an after-tax loss of $28.4 million from a revaluation of its interest-rate options, Chemical earned $103.8 million. Profits were $130 million a year ago, excluding special factors like an adjustment to the pension plan and tax benefits.
A large part of the weaker performance stemmed from a $50.7 million drop in net interest income, or the difference between the interest paid for deposits and that earned on loans and investments. At Chemical the interest differential contracted to 3 percent in the latest quarter from 3.46 percent a year earlier.
Profits from trading in bonds and foreign exchange were also lower, with a combined profit of $29.8 million, compared with $61.2 million a year ago.
Non-interest expenses for wages, benefits and occupancy and equipment expenses rose by $40.4 million, or about 9.7 percent.
A bright spot in Chemical's earnings was the nearly 10 percent increase in fee income, mostly from corporate finance activities and fees collected from servicing loans that were repackaged as securities.
After Chemical's announcement, Moody's Investors Service lowered the company's senior debt rating to Baa-2 from Baa-1. The Standard & Poor's Corporation held its rating stable at A-, but warned that Chemical's ''flexibility to manage future unforeseen problems stays limited.'' If loan quality deteriorates or other problems arise, ''the ratings could be lowered,'' S.& P. said.
Chemical's stock, which stopped trading on the New York Stock Exchange before the announcement, ended the day at $39.50 a share, down 75 cents. Manufacturers Hanover closed at $43.625, 12.5 cents higher than the offering price of its new stock and 12.5 cents higher on the day. Bank of New York closed at $49.50, down 87.5 cents.
On Wednesday, Manufacturers Hanover sold 13.8 million shares of new stock at $43.50 a share, raising $583.8 million after payment of $16.5 million to securities dealers led by Morgan Stanley & Company. Manufacturers is raising another $150 million from stock sold to Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, the Japanese bank that also agreed to pay $1.2 billion for a 60 percent share of the CIT Group, a finance subsidiary of Manufacturers.
 
Bank of New York
The Bank of New York announced a loss of $271.3 million, as it set aside $400 million of reserves to cover possible losses on third world loans and $200 million to cover other bad loans. Without the reserves, earnings would have been $118.7 million, or $1.60 a share, up from $54.2 million, or $1.39 a share, in the quarter a year ago.
Bank of New York's profits were much larger than a year earlier because of its merger with the Irving Bank Corporation, the final phase of which was completed last week.
Bank of New York now has reserves covering 65 percent of its medium- and long-term loans, compared with 41 percent at Chemcial, 46 percent at Chase, 36 percent at Manufacturers and 100 percent at J. P. Morgan.
Besides adding $200 million to cover possible losses in its domestic loans, Bank of New York noted that nonperforming loans rose $127 million from a year ago. Banking experts said about $90 million of that increase was a loan to the Lomas Financial Corporation, a Dallas-based financial company that has suffered heavy losses in real estate and filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 24.
Mr. Alpert noted that concern about the quality of Bank of New York's loans was heightened because the bank is an active lender to highly indebted companies for leveraged buyouts and other corporate restructurings. Bank of New York has not announced any problems with those loans, which totaled $3.9 billion at midyear. Bank executives said they expect the amount of those loans to decline quickly, but did not disclose the size of their holdings at the end of the third quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (69%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%); NCNB CORP (65%); FIRST REPUBLICBANK CORP (64%); TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES INC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; BANK OF NEW YORK CO

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY LOSSES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (70%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL



319 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Silicon Graphics To Buy Back Stock

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., Oct. 12

 BODY:
Silicon Graphics Inc. agreed to repurchase 2,360,000 common shares held by the Control Data Corporation. The shares will be bought for $22.60 each, below the recent market price, for a total of $53.3 million. The transaction will cut Control Data's holdings in Silicon Graphics to 702,750 shares, or just under 5 percent of the outstanding stock.
Silicon Graphics said the stock repurchase would not affect its business relationship with Control Data. The company's shares slipped 25 cents today, to $23.25, in over-the-counter trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SGI (NASDAQ) (96%); ARB (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (93%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (91%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: SILICON GRAPHICS INTERNATIONAL CORP (96%); CERIDIAN CORP (93%); ARBITRON INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SILICON GRAPHICS INC; CONTROL DATA CORP

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS COMMON STOCK (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); BONDS (82%); 



320 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: 2 Bankers Cited In Iraqi Case

 BODY:
Two senior officers at the Atlanta branch of Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, Italy's largest bank, were accused yesterday of fraud and racketeering in connection with the issuance of more than $2 billion of loan agreements and letters of credit, primarily to banks and Government agencies in Iraq.
In a lawsuit filed at Federal court in Atlanta, the bank contended that unauthorized and illegal credit agreements had been concealed from the management of the Italian bank and from state and Federal banking regulators in the United States. According to the complaint, Christopher Drogoul, manager of the Atlanta branch, and Paul Von Wedel, vice president, enriched themselves by an unstated amount while defrauding the bank.
Many of the credit agreements with Iraqi banks, with the Iraqi ministries of industry and trade and with other entities were arranged with interest rates and fees lower than prevailing market prices, the complaint said.
Efforts to obtain phone numbers to reach the two officers were unsuccessful.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BNL (MIL) (58%); BL (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); ITALY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO INVERSIONES ARGENTINAS SA (58%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO SPA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ

SUBJECT: CREDIT; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); LITIGATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: DROGOUL, CHRISTOPHER; VON WEDEL, PAUL CHRISTIAN PIERRET (51%); 



321 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off in Slow Trading; Dealers Await New Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell in subdued dealings yesterday as traders awaited the release of new economic data.
Gold prices rose worldwide, with bullion for current delivery on the Commodity Exchange in New York closing at $363.40 an ounce, up $1.40 from Wednesday.
Many currency traders stayed on the sidelines awaiting today's release by the Government of data on retail sales and producer prices for September. 
Bob Morrissey, a senior trader at the New York office of the Bank of Boston Corporation, said that if the Producer Price Index ''comes in on the high side,'' the Federal Reserve would not have the flexibility to push interest rates lower.
''While the Fed is concerned about the level of the dollar, their major priority is to keep inflation'' down, he added.
 
Cut in Discount Rate Rumored
Foreign exchange dealers said the dollar was undermined by speculation that the Fed was considering a cut in the discount rate, its interest charged on loans to member banks. Lower interest rates make United States investments less attractive to foreigners, thereby diminishing their need for dollars.
Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, said that despite the fact that the dollar was holding to key levels, it was likely to come under pressure because interest-rate differentials between nations had narrowed considerably.
American interest rates currently are about 2.5 percentage points higher than those in Japan, he said, adding that historically, as the spread decreases to less than 3 percentage points, ''the dollar comes under pressure.''
Mr. Flanagan also said that the spread was as high as 5 points earlier this year, ''which had kept the underlying support of the dollar all year.''
 
Inflation Fight in Britain
Separately, the British pound got a lift from comments by Nigel Lawson, Chancellor of the Exchequer, who told the governing Conservative Party's annual conference he would continue to fight inflation with high interest rates for as long as necessary.
In New York, the dollar finished at 144.15 yen, down from 144.50 yen on Wednesday. And it cost $1.5527 to buy one pound, more expensive than $1.5460 on Wednesday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Wednesday's late rates, included: 1.9075 West German marks, down from 1.9155; 1.6735 Swiss francs, down from 1.6800; 6.4670 French francs, down from 6.4900; 1,399.25 Italian lire, down from 1,403.00, and 1.1749 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1748.
On the Comex, silver for current delivery closed at $5.090 an ounce, up from $5.076 on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CURRENCIES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GERMAN MARK (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); RETAIL SALES (56%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 



322 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 32, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Jackie Mason's Remarks Are as Inaccurate as They Are Dangerous

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The comedian Jackie Mason, dropped from Rudolph W. Giuliani's New York City mayoral campaign for remarks about blacks and Jews (news story, Sept. 28), may not understand why some people might be offended by his remarks, but that should not prevent the rest of us from understanding how dangerous and inaccurate this sort of pandering to prejudice is. Enough people share Mr. Mason's views to make them more important than one might wish.
His claim that black voters will not vote for whites because of past discrimination is nonsense. Blacks have been far more willing to vote for white candidates than the reverse. They've often had little choice, but whatever the reason, voting records show that Afro-Americans remain significantly less likely to base their votes on race than are white voters. From the Presidential campaigns of John F. Kennedy and Jimmy Carter to the local races of Charles J. Hynes and Ruth W. Messinger, electoral history demonstrates the willingness of black voters to look beyond skin color to substance. The same cannot be said of many white voters. 
Public opinion surveys show that Jewish support for most of the economic, social and political items on the ''black'' agenda remains high, Mr. Mason notwithstanding. The support does not come from Jewish ''complexes,'' but from an informed understanding that democracy can be measured as progress registered by the country's Afro-American population. The civil rights movement wasn't just good for the blacks; it was good for the trade union movement, for the elderly, for gays, for women -and it was good for the Jews. All of us win as the most vulnerable among us organize, fight and win.
The quick and gratifying denunciation of Mr. Mason by Mayor Koch and spokesmen for Jewish organizations, who have contributed to divisiveness over the years with claims about black anti-Semitism, was good to see. Maybe things are changing after all. It couldn't be anything but a change for the better.
 
JOHN EHRENBERG
Brooklyn, Sept. 28, 1989
 The writer is a professor of political science at Long Island University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; RACIAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (IN US); JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM VOTERS & VOTING (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); POLITICS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MASON, JACKIE; EHRENBERG, JOHN JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 



323 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 33, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Gramm-Rudman? Let the Ax Fall

BYLINE: By Dan Rostenkowski; Dan Rostenkowski, Democratic of Illinois, is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Now that the House has passed the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989, the deficit reduction bill designed to avoid automatic spending cuts under Gramm-Rudman, I have some advice for the members of the Senate, where the debate has stalled. If you think that the Federal budget deficit should be reduced, the surest way to accomplish that goal is to shelve this legislation and allow the Gramm-Rudman spending cuts to go into effect next Monday.
Every criticism of Gramm-Rudman is true: It is mindless, it represents an abdication of responsibility by the President and the Congress and it sends an awful signal to the markets about our ability to govern.
For all of its faults, however, Gramm-Rudman has one thing going for it - it can result in more real deficit reduction than we will ever achieve from the budget reconciliation bill. 
The spending cuts under Gramm-Rudman, distributed across the board between defense and nondefense programs, would reduce the Federal deficit by $16 billion next year and by $80 billion over the next five years. By comparison, the legislation working its way through the Congress will reduce the deficit by only $16 billion over the next five years and will result in growing deficits in 1993 and beyond.
At the beginning of this year, we had a tremendous opportunity to confront the deficit. We had a new President, a new Congress and a growing public awareness of the need to put our fiscal house in order. Instead of grasping the opportunity, we decided on a ''slide-by'' budget, one that would provide only modest deficit reduction but that would set the stage for a grand compromise next year.
Whatever semblance of budget discipline existed at the beginning of this year's legislative process, however, has all but disappeared in recent weeks. The House, for example, rushed to accommodate budget-busting amendments to this bill. In addition to abandoning fiscal responsibility, the House fully retreated on several important initiatives, like repealing the catastrophic health care program, and started the assault on tax reform by passing a reduction in the capital gains tax.
I have been particularly distressed with the cynicism of President Bush's economic advisers, and his supporters in the Congress, in their approach to the entire debate. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Richard Darman, has enthusiastically decried ''now-nowism'': the pursuit of immediate gratification rather than planning for the future. The Secretary of the Treasury, Nicholas Brady, has forcefully endorsed incentives to encourage long-term economic growth.
Yet the Administration has substituted ''slide-by'' budget plans, blue smoke and mirrors, off-budget financing and short-term revenue ''surges'' for sound budget discipline. The President's budget advisers have been driven by political concerns, with little, if any, regard for the real consequences of their budgetary actions.
Popularly elected presidents enjoy their greatest power and influence in their first year in office. George Bush is no exception. Yet he is squandering his influence to pursue a tax cut for the wealthiest 5 percent of our population in a year when our deficit exceeds $130 billion and study after study shows the gap between rich and poor widening. What kind of priorities does that represent?
Our refusal to attack the deficit would be comic if it were not so irresponsible. We want the Federal Government to step up the war on drugs, but we are unwilling to pay for it. We can't walk down the street without stepping over living, breathing examples of homelessness. We can't keep up with the bills for a cleaner environment. We hide the bills for the savings and loan bailout off-budget. We have 37 million Americans without health insurance and a child poverty rate that is a disgrace.
In a year when we should have been engaged in a serious debate about the national priorities, the deficit provided a wonderful fog to obscure the hard decisions that should have been made.
It's the sad truth that we have a President who refuses to lead and a Congress that is institutionally incapable of leading the deficit reduction effort. This has left budget-watchers wondering what crisis will force the President, the Congress and even the public to finally confront the deficit.
The answer is Gramm-Rudman. Let the cuts go into effect next Monday. Make them permanent and make them hurt. And when the budget process begins next year, maybe all of us, starting with the President, will be ready to meet our collective responsibilities to govern.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TITLE: GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS ACT

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEFICIT REDUCTION ACT BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); TAX REFORM (65%); HEALTH CARE (61%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: ROSTENKOWSKI, DAN (REPR); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 



324 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Seoul Vows More for U.S. Troop Costs

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Oct. 13

 BODY:
President Roh Tae Woo says that South Korea will increase its share of the cost of stationing American military forces here as it grows stronger economically, but that a cutback of those forces should not be considered now.
In an interview on Thursday before his departure on Sunday for Washington, where he is to meet with President Bush and address Congress, Mr. Roh said he was confident that those calling for a cutback of the 44,000 American troops in South Korea represented only a minority in both South Korea and the United States.
''The United States troops in Korea not only defend South Korea against a possible attack from North Korea,'' Mr. Roh said. ''But they are an important factor in the overall military balance of power in northeast Asia. There can be a slight modification as time goes by, but the general level of the American presence is not a subject for any possible change.'' 
Mr. Roh's visit to the United States, and especially his speech in Congress, is regarded in both Seoul and Washington as an important milestone for South Korea's drive to improve its reputation for stability and openness after its uneasy transition to democratic rule.
 
Changes Began in 1987
A wave of anti-Government protests in June 1987 led President Chun Doo Hwan and Mr. Roh, a former army general who was his handpicked successor, to initiate democratic changes. Mr. Roh then won the presidential election in December with 37 percent of the vote, but the opposition formed a coalition and subsequently won control of the National Assembly.
In other remarks, Mr. Roh defended his record on human rights, saying the arrests of several hundred dissidents in recent months, as well as the indictment of Kim Dae Jung, the country's most prominent opposition leader, were prompted by specific violations of the law and not carried out to suppress dissent.
The arrests have drawn criticism from human rights organizations and some in the United States and have been described as a setback in South Korea's progress toward tolerance, democracy and openness after decades of authoritarian rule. Critics point out that there are now more prisoners in jail on politically connected charges than there were in the final years of President Chun's tenure.
Mr. Roh said his critics overlooked a wave of firebombings, attacks on the police and other violence this year, as well as what he said were cases of espionage and subversion connected to unauthorized visits by South Koreans to North Korea.
 
Political Jailings Denied
''I will say firmly that there is at present nobody who can be defined as a political prisoner or a prisoner of conscience,'' Mr. Roh said, speaking at a conference room at the Blue House, his official residence. ''Only those who committed specific acts have been arrested. I don't think that even in the United States they would be called political prisoners.''
On another delicate matter straining relations with the United States, Mr. Roh said that while in Washington he would ask for understanding that South Korea was finding it difficult to open up its markets to more American imports, as the Bush Administration demands.
President Roh's comments about American troops echoed recent statements by both Mr. Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle, who visited South Korea last month, that the Administration had no plans to reduce military forces here.
But privately, many Administration officials say budgetary pressures, combined with an apparently reduced threat from the Soviet Union, make a reduction inevitable in the next several years. Some in Congress are pressing the Administration to reduce the force level.
In Tokyo on Thursday, the United States Ambassador to Japan, Michael H. Armacost, said in a speech that ''there will come a time when it is appropriate to adjust the size of our presence'' in South Korea, but that any change would be accomplished only with the concurrence and support of Seoul.
Mr. Roh's insistence that such a time is not on the horizon reflected a widespread assertion in his Government that North Korea continues to pose a military threat and that it is waging a constant campaign to subvert democracy in South Korea.
 
Increased Support Seen
As for South Korea's picking up a greater share of the cost of American forces, Mr. Roh would not comment about any timetable.
But he said: ''Of course the role of the republic will definitely increase. This is a welcome phenomenon for us, as well as for the United States and other friendly countries. About sharing the burden of maintaining U.S. forces in Korea, we will increase our share commensurate to the increased economic ability of my country.''
By United States calculation, Seoul contributed $288 million in direct outlays to support American troops in the fiscal year 1987. Washington says that recently South Korea announced plans to increase this direct contribution to $340 million in 1992. It was not clear if Mr. Roh's intention to increase the contribution would be above and beyond this amount.
Washington also calculates that Seoul contributes real estate, personnel, tax exemptions and other indirect subsidies that save the United States about $1.6 billion a year.
On political issues, he appealed to Americans to ignore human rights organizations and others that assert that he has backed away from promises on establishing due process and other democratic changes by permitting the arrest of hundreds of people on national security laws.
 
Enemies' Campaign Seen
The President said South Korea's enemies had engaged in a campaign to undermine democracy by sponsoring strikes, street protests, illegal demonstrations and covert contacts with North Korea, with which the South is still officially at war.
He said that while many of these activities had originated in South Korea, they were inspired or exploited by Pyongyang, and that they were worsened by feelings of frustration here after decades of repression.
''It has been very difficult,'' Mr. Roh said. ''With eradication of our controls and suppression, and with the coming of this freedom and openness, all the pent-up demands and desires of the society have come up at the same time. As a result of these eruptions, it has been very difficult to maintain law and social order.''
But he added that there was no turning back and that the Government would continue to support press freedom and an independent judiciary. ''The authoritarian government is the story of the past,'' he declared. ''It no longer exists in Korea.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARRESTS (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ARMIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); INDICTMENTS (63%); ESPIONAGE (50%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; ROH TAE WOO (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



325 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Yugoslav Premier Seeks U.S. Aid

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ante Markovic of Yugoslavia met with President Bush today, seeking United States assistance in making economic and political changes opposed by hard-liners in the Communist Party.
Mr. Markovic, who visited Mr. Bush at the White House, was pressing for American financial aid and for help in obtaining new loans to ease Yugoslavia's $19 billion foreign debt and help steer the country toward a market economy. 
Mr. Bush's spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said the President welcomed Mr. Markovic's ''commitment to market-oriented economic reform and to building democratic pluralism.''
Mr. Markovic told reporters on Thursday that he wanted $1 billion for Yugoslavia's banking system, which is being revised in accordance with Western standards. American officials say the money is needed to prop up banks that have been backing money-losing ventures that would lose Government subsidies under anticipated changes.
Yugoslavia is asking the World Bank for a loan of $300 million to $350 million.
Mr. Markovic has been attempting to lure American investment by outlining to American officials and bankers his proposed changes and legislation already enacted that would allow foreign investments and joint ventures.
The changes ''are bound to bring social problems,'' Mr. Markovic said, including an increase in unemployment to about 20 percent and the threat of increased ethnic and political tensions among the country's six republics and two autonomous provinces.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AFG (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); TRENDS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: MARKOVIC, ANTE (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



326 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Charting Drug Trade From the Skies

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
The Central Intelligence Agency and other Federal groups have begun using satellites to spy on the maze of clandestine airstrips, roads and factories run by the illicit drug industry in South America.
The agencies are also using the military and civilian satellites to locate remote areas under cultivation with drug crops, and they now plan to take on the more difficult job of actively tracking ships and planes that smuggle narcotics into the United States.
Most of the new drug-reconnaissance work is secret because officials do not want to tip off the smugglers as to precisely what they know. But a glimpse of the developing activity was obtained through interviews with Bush Administration officials, Congressmen and industry experts.
An official of a private concern that analyzes civilian spacecraft photos, Mark Labovitz, said special processing can now suppress the images of thick vegetation in forests of Colombia and Peru, for example, and highlight the obscured airstrips. 
 
Mapping the Coca Fields
''Some of them stick out like a sore thumb,'' he said. ''You put the photo on a light table and pick them out, boom, boom, boom.''
A vivid example of the new drug reconnaissance is seen in the United States Drug Enforcement Administration's work in mapping the wilds of Peru's Upper Huallaga Valley - which produces nearly half the world's coca leaves and is dotted with cocaine laboratories, hideouts and some 60 jungle landing strips in the high end of the valley.
The maps are made from the enlarged and enhanced satellite photos, with the aid of the Pentagon's Defense Mapping Agency and the United States Geological Survey. The new charts are seen as crucial to the future success of local law-enforcment and D.E.A raids because they can reveal escape routes for drug traffickers, and possibly for their pursuers as well.
''They need to know how to get in and out, so they don't get shot up,'' said a Federal official, who asked not to be identified.
 
Drug-Crop Fields on the Move
The Upper Huallaga, a lush river valley largely controlled by the Shining Path guerrillas of Peru, has been called the D.E.A.'s most perilous assignment. Some 20 decapitated bodies, believed to be those of local informers, were recently found floating down the river past a new Peruvian police ranger and D.E.A. forward command post in Santa Lucia.
Experts say that by concentrating on areas of drug production and traffic routes, space technology is arming law-enforcement agents with more precise information, helping them avoid false leads or fruitless searches and track the shifting patterns of drug production.
''You want the best reconnaissance you can get as these crops move to other locations,'' Peter B. Bensinger, former head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, said in an interview. In reaction to stepped-up anti-drug efforts, he said, the drug operators are constantly moving crop-field locations, the processing plants, and flying and shipping routes, which makes better intelligence crucial.
Representative Nicholas Mavroules, a Massachusetts Democrat who chairs the House Armed Services subcommittee on investigations and is a member of the Intelligence Committee, said he was ''very impressed'' with the effort being made by the nation's spy agencies.
 
Cartels' Use of Intimidation
''They can make a significant dent in the armor of the drug cartels,'' he said.
Representative Mavroules and others said, however, that technology alone will not end the problem. They pointed to the heavy demand for drugs in the United States and Europe, as well as political and economic factors in South America as complicating factors. They said that even when detected, drug smugglers often manage to corrupt or intimidate law-enforcement authorities all along the line - from the fields where the coca plant is grown to the factories where it is processed into cocaine to the streets where it is sold - to avoid arrest or conviction.
''It's one thing to know there are so many hectares under cultivation, and another to destroy them,'' said Adm. Stansfield Turner, former director of the C.I.A.
Nonetheless, he said, space surveillance should be ''a big help.''
 
'You Just Use More Analysts'
Mr. Bensinger, who ran the D.E.A. from 1976 to 1981 and is currently a Chicago-based drug consultant, told Congress in 1981 that the agency ''desperately'' needed satellite-reconnaissance help, that enforcement was ''immediately limited'' without it. ''Today,'' he said, ''reconnaissance is one area where we're ahead of the Medellin and Cali cartels.''
The military and C.I.A satellites are said to be powerful enough to produce photographs taken from orbit that can reveal the numbers on license plates on cars or trucks parked hundreds of miles below.
Maj. Nelson B. Johnson, a retired Army intelligence expert at Comprehensive Technologies International, a management company in Chantilly, Va., said that converting the spy technology to drug detection was relatively simple. ''All it takes is more people'' to analyze photos, he said. ''You don't have to put up another satellite, you just use more analysts.''
The civilian photos being used are from satellites privately operated by Landsat and SPOT, which scientists have used for years for studying the earth's resources, monitoring worldwide crop production, water resources and the condition of world forests. Landsat and SPOT photos are available on the commercial market.
 
Tracking Poppies in Thailand
Mr. Labovitz, manager of applications and analysis at ST Systems Corporation, based in Lanham, Md., said drug intelligence often entails comparing satellite images taken months apart in an effort to identify new structures and clearings. ''Why in the middle of nowhere would you cut down a forest?'' he said. ''Does it make sense in terms of local agriculture? Is there a house around?''
William A. Kennedy, an analyst at the Earth Observation Satellite Company in Lanham, Md., which sells Landsat photos, said a technique called spectral analysis can detect drug plants on the basis of their color ''signature'' but added that it was not always reliable. Coca plants, he said, are easier to detect in that way than marijuana.
With $100,000 from the American Government, the United Nations Division of Narcotic Drugs is studying the feasibility of perfecting the ''signature'' method, convening a panel of a dozen experts at the end of October.
The deputy director of the division, Bertrand J. De Fondaumiere, said in an interview that the SPOT satellite has already been used to track poppies in Thailand. ''So we're not starting from scratch,'' he said, adding that improved techniques gave the method ''a good chance of working.''
 
Spotting Ships and Airplanes
Congress last year greatly expanded the military's anti-drug role. A result is that the Defense Department is now spending $300 million to help control drug traffic. Early this year, the military made public some of its drug-reconnaissance plans. Lieut. Gen. Thomas W. Kelly of the Army, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told a House hearing that the Defense Intelligence Agency was studying ways to concentrate the nation's assets on the drug war, and he alluded to the C.I.A.'s spy satellites and the communication listening skills of the National Security Agency.
''We think we can take national technical means and divert them to spotting those ships and airplanes that are coming in, and spotting where some of this stuff is produced,'' General Kelly told the House Armed Services subcommittee on investigations, chaired by Representative Mavroules.
To aid the effort, William J. Webster, Director of Central Intelligence, in April created a Counter Narcotics Center, based at C.I.A. headquarters in Langley, Va. It includes agents from the D.E.A., the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the State Department, the Coast Guard, the Defense Department, and the National Security Agency.
A C.I.A. spokesman, Mark Mansfield, said the center had ''full access to intelligence on international drug trafficking.''
A C.I.A. official, who asked not to be identified, said it was ''very safe to assume'' the center relied on the nation's full range of spy satellites. A D.E.A. spokesman in Washington, Joseph Keefe, said the agency could make no comment on the use of military satellites in the drug war.
''Everybody knows they're up there, and knows they help things,'' Mr. Keefe said. ''But we don't like to talk about it. We really feel it's an important tool, but it's not ours to talk about.''

GRAPHIC: Landsat satellite photo of the Upper Huallaga Valley of Peru, which grows nearly half the world's supply of coca leaves; map of Peru

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

COMPANY: UPPER ROOM (52%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (55%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; COCAINE; RECONNAISSANCE SATELLITES; SATELLITES (ARTIFICIAL); LANDSAT SATELLITES SMUGGLING (91%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); COCAINE (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); SPACECRAFT (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (50%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J



327 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Times Square Renewal (Act II), a Farce

BYLINE: By Ada Louise Huxtable; Ada Louise Huxtable was architecture critic of The New York Times and a member of its Editorial Board.

 BODY:
After a six year intermission, the curtain has gone up on Act II of the long-running show at Times Square called the 42d Street Development Project. The latest revised production hit the boards in August.
Act I had focused on a set of mansard-roofed towers of blockbuster proportions, dubious historical antecedents and consummate zoning overkill. A staggering amount of the total bulk of the entire renewal area was transferred to four enormous new buildings at the heart of Times Square. 
These buildings were, and continue to be, the anchor of the state- and city-sponsored plan. The 1983 version by the architect John Burgee, with Philip Johnson, consultant, was meant to transform Times Square into a kind of postmodern Rockefeller Center in fancy architectural dress that gave frightening new meaning to the word ''faux.''
The design relied heavily on the architectural free-association game -words and materials such as crested mansards, entrance arcades and stone appliques - to create the buzz images that substitute upscale marketing for the art of architecture.
Act I didn't play well with the critics; the buildings were panned as superficial, stolid and dull. The idea that a squeaky clean office district would cure the area's manifold ills was viewed as deliverance by death.
The scheme had all the elements of a Joe Orton black comedy: a multi-billion-dollar real estate deal that piously packaged public morality and profitable mathematics under the banner of Times Square cleanup, and an unbelievable rerun of discredited 1960's urban renewal, in which the bulldozer promised relief from rot and drove out everything else with the blight. Hitched to the back of the juggernaut was the avowed restoration of the historic 42d Street theaters, to be funded from the profits of the office towers.
But if the sponsors were dealing in one kind of fantasy, the champions of the traditional Times Square were seduced by another: the legendary image of lights, signs and surging crowds, dramatic displays and nonstop entertainment that has made these blocks a magnet for the world.
The reality of the Times Square area is far more complex: It is the most fragile kind of urban fabric, in a constant state of change. This vital and vibrant place has many lifelines. The sordid and the spectacular are never far apart. Broadway and its theaters are in transition, its commerce and culture are in uneasy equilibrium, while pressures build on the older communities around it.
There is no way the image can be fixed by decree; there is no way the reality can be papered over with signs. It was a particularly choice bit of black humor when, in 1986, the city rushed in belatedly to measure signs and setbacks and ''define'' the character of the area, leaving all the larger planning problems untouched. Legislation was passed that required buildings to follow sign and setback directives. The emperor got measured for a new set of clothes.
Fantasy mistaken for reality becomes farce. The play-doctors, or plan-doctors, decided a ''Times Square look'' would make the behemoths acceptable. The buildings' outrageous size and square footage are still the same. The abuses of zoning and urban design, the default of planning and policy issues, have been subsumed into a ludicrous debate about a ''suitable'' style.
And so, new costumes by the designers. Quicker-than-the-eye transformations, like scene shifts in the dark. Abstract wall patterns, kinetic roof lines, state of the art illuminated displays. More surface skills, less historical malapropism. Shell games, so to speak. Give the architects a hand.
Mr. Johnson now says that the original mansard monsters are passe. This is the New Modernism. The Pied Piper of Architecture has led us from Postmodern Classicism to Deconstructivism, which is what the New Modernism is called in circles where they are busy trying to make buildings look as if they are falling down or rushing off in any direction that denies gravity or structural logic. At the glacial pace of this project, this, too, will go out of style. With luck, we could see none of the above.
Because this is not architecture at all. It is cosmetic window dressing. No one at any phase of this project has understood what architecture is or how it can be used creatively and constructively in the context of the city.
Above all, the 42d Street project is a failure of government, from the moment the official design guidelines were literally thrown away by the developer and his architects and an opportunistic patchwork of investment prizes substituted for a plan. There is still no committed construction for Eighth Avenue, where it is essential to stabilize the neighborhood. To say that all will fall into place when the towers proceed is a real estate act of faith more appropriate to private investment than to public expenditure.
Beyond the developer's promise of acquisition costs for theaters, most restoration and operating funds hang on the artistic, commercial and financial feasibility of proposals yet to be judged by a not-for-profit 42d Street Entertainment Corporation that, a year after its announcement, has yet to name its head. Massive new construction is already transforming and tipping the balance of the city's entertainment and tourist heart.
There will be subway improvements. Some sleaze and crime will move. We may save and sanitize the theaters for an uncertain future. But there is no plan or purpose large enough to justify the huge public subsidies of land assembly, tax abatement and zoning bonuses.
And there will be four enormous buildings to demonstrate the failure of architecture and public policy in New York. They could be an effective memorial to Times Square.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC)

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ARCHITECTURE EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); THEATER (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); 

PERSON: HUXTABLE, ADA LOUISE PHILIP JOHNSON (56%); 



328 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
Chelsea Lifetime: 81 Years of Love, Survival and Art

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
This is a tale of principles, survival, love, art and, in the most recent chapter, rock music videos and a tire commercial. But it is especially about love.
It begins long ago and in another country. A young anarchist fled a repressive Argentina by going to sea, jumping ship in New York City. He landed work in the silk mills of Paterson, N.J. There, his best friend was Gaetano Bresci, an Italian immigrant saving to bring his sister over. 
But the sister became involved in a bitter strike in Italy. Troops rushed in, and she was killed. Mr. Bresci put his savings to another use. He assassinated King Humbert I on July 29, 1900. The new king summarily banned the name Bresci, forcing not a few name changes.
So it was that the young anarchist, Joseph Thompson - part Scot, part South American Indian - resolved that his first child, girl or boy, would be named Bresci. Bresci Thompson was born on Sept. 13, 1908, in Manhattan's horrid Hell's Kitchen. The family soon moved downtown to Chelsea, then nearly as poor. Bresci, now 81 years old, was to spend his life there.
On Columbus Day, sun streamed into Bresci's six-room, rent-controlled Chelsea apartment. From a window next to the easel where he paints, the Hudson River sparkled. From other windows, he could see a wide sweep of Manhattan. Bresci claimed good health and an adequate income. He doesn't owe anybody anything.
For 51 years, he and his wife, Mary, lived a stupendous love story, becoming neighborhood legends for the way they held hands and gazed into each other's eyes. But at the end, Mary suffered terribly from cancer. ''I wanted her to die because of the pain,'' Bresci said. ''And I wanted her to live because I loved her.''
He paused, then continued, ''The scales didn't balance.'' Scales? ''The scales of justice,'' Bresci whispered. Mary died three years ago. Bresci sank into depression. Then he resumed painting, and is currently staging an exhibition at Hudson Guild, a Chelsea community service organization at 441 West 26th Street. On a lark, he auditioned for minor acting jobs. Already he has been in six movies, four rock videos and a tire commercial for which he was paid $1,500 for a day's work - more than he made in a month as a department store window dresser, his job for 33 years. ''Life is wonderful,'' Bresci said. Bresci's early memories are of cold-water flats with toilets in the backyard. He saw massive drinking and wives who put flour around their eyes to hide the effects of beatings. Tuberculosis was rampant. Children stole produce for family tables. ''Survival - that's the key word,'' Bresci said. ''And you did it by hook or by crook.''
Food was so short that Bresci's mother couldn't produce milk for his infant sister. Coal ran out. Bresci's father was unemployed. The family was about to be evicted. Someone said they should ask the Hudson Guild for help.
The Hudson Guild was the creation of Dr. John Elliott Lovejoy, who began by asking some boys shooting craps on the street to come inside. It came to include a child-care center, sports and crafts for older children, programs for the elderly and a New Jersey retreat.
The Thompson family was well taken care of. The guild gave them coal and food and helped Joseph find a job. And it nurtured an emerging imagination. Pictures on the walls spurred Bresci to make his own art. Acting in guild productions would much later give him confidence to be an extra in movies like ''Wall Street.''
And it was at the guild that he met Mary Fox. ''I loved to dance, and I wasn't such a bad looking guy,'' Bresci said. But Mary, then a guild social worker, worried that he might carelessly break hearts and advised her female charges to be wary. Bresci retaliated. ''Mary Fox, mind your own damn business,'' he snapped.
Three years later, the two began dating. In five more years, they were married. ''She was a lady with a capital L,'' Bresci said.
With the shadows now lengthening, Bresci takes more time to remember. He remembers the smells of his vanished Chelsea - a fish market, bathless bodies, two chocolate factories, the biscuit factory where his father stoked ovens. This anarchist's son still winces at the vilification when he claimed conscientious objector status and refused to buy war bonds during World War II.
But what a strange and satisfying present! Bresci showed off a rock-music video in which he held an hourglass - a confused old man in a heavy-metal world. He hates the music and huffs that he isn't a ''sad sack.'' But he surely relished the director's compliments.
''If I'd have died that day, I'd have died happy,'' Bresci said.

GRAPHIC: Bresci Thompson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; CHELSEA (NYC)

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION VIDEO INDUSTRY (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); ASSASSINATION (70%); TRENDS (69%); RENT CONTROL (66%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS; THOMPSON, BRESCI



329 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: H.U.D. Ousts Administrator In New York

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP

 BODY:
An investigation by the Department of Housing and Urban Development has found that its former New York administrator, Geraldine McGann, violated Federal ethical standards in connection with a subsidized housing program in her hometown of Island Park, L.I., but did not use her position to enrich her family or political allies.
''As a result,'' the agency's counsel, Frank Keating, said, ''we have taken disciplinary action'' by removing her as regional administrator and transferring her to Washington to a position that does not involve financing decisions.
Mrs. McGann was suspended in June, after The New York Times disclosed a 1984 H.U.D. audit criticizing a program that awarded subsidized houses in Island Park to her son and a cousin of her longtime political ally, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato. 
 
Despite Lawyer's Instructions
The recently completed four-month investigation of Mrs. McGann found ''suspicious and disturbing facts'' about the distribution of the houses, Mr. Keating said, but no ''direct evidence that she called or requested'' that her son obtain a house.
The investigation found that in the six years she was a top administrator and a member of the Village Board, she had voted on several H.U.D.-related issues in Island Park, despite instructions by the agency's lawyer not to do so.
Mr. Keating said additional action could be taken, pending the outcomes of criminal investigations by the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York and the Nassau County District Attorney's office. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Jack F. Kemp told reporters, ''She will not be beheaded.''
Mrs. McGann will continue to receive the salary she was paid as a regional administrator, $68,572.
Mrs. McGann did not respond yesterday to calls to her Federal office. Anthony Cornachio, special counsel for the Village of Island in the inquiry, said he could not comment until he saw the report on the inquiry. In an interview in May, Mrs. McGann denied using her village position to vote on H.U.D. issues, including the approval of a housing lot that went to her son. She said the village minutes from 1983 and last year indicated that those votes were improperly recorded. She said the Village Board had revised the minutes.
The former Village Clerk, Harry Scully, said in an interview at that time that the board members had revised the minutes to ''cover up'' for Mrs. McGann. Mr. Keating said the investigators ''did not accept Mrs. McGann's explanation that her votes were improperly recorded.''
The audit in 1984 said that Mrs. McGann's son was chosen for a house in the third phase of the project, ahead of 120 applicants left over from the second phase, that the son's handwritten hand-delivered letter of interest was not numbered or stamped with the time and that even though single people were ''generally not eligible,'' he was selected, with his fiancee, as co-purchasers.
Mr. Keating said the investigators could find no evidence that Mrs. McGann had taken the initiative to have ''her son put on the top of the list.''
In June, Mr. Kemp prohibited all top-ranking administrators from serving on elective or appointed boards that could cause conflicts of interest with their jobs. Mrs. McGann soon resigned from the Island Park board.

GRAPHIC: A Department of Housing and Urban Development investigation has found that Geraldine McGann violated ethical standards in her hometown of Island Park, L.I. (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ISLAND PARK (NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ETHICS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); ETHICS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); EVIDENCE (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); 

PERSON: MCGANN, GERALDINE; WINERIP, MICHAEL ALFONSE M D'AMATO (56%); 



330 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, OCTOBER, 14, 1989

 BODY:

Market Turmoil
 The Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 190.58 points, or 6.9 percent, to 2,569.26, as a late wave of selling swept the stock market. While the point decline was the second largest in history, exceeded only by the 508-point plunge of Oct. 19, 1987, the decline in percentage terms was ranked as the 12th worst. [Page 1.] Was yesterday's market plunge the beginning of a replay of the 1987 crash? Many Wall Street executives noted key differences: Stock market prices are not considered extravagant now in relation to corporate earnings. The economy is stable, not overheated, and many do not expect higher interest rates. But many traders pointed to troubling similarities. [1.] Institutional investors behaved as if the takeover craze had ended. Mindful of recent turmoil in the ''junk bond'' market, they grew concerned that corporate acquisitions would grind to a halt because of a lack of credit. [33.] A series of emergency actions were initiated at the major exchanges in an effort to limit price declines. While the mechanisms worked effectively, some traders and industry officials said they also created unintended consequences. [39.] Although Wall Street was stunned by the selling wave that swept the stock market, it was not devastated. [39.] Currency dealers pounded down the dollar in hectic selling. In New York, the dollar closed at 142.05 yen, down from 144.15. [43.] A ''flight to quality'' sent prices of Treasury securities soaring and yields plunging. The yield on the Treasury's bellwether long-term bond fell to 7.86 percent, its lowest since Aug. 2. [36.] Orange juice futures plunged on word that Brazilian producers planned to cut the export price. [43.]
 
Economy
 The Senate leadership agreed to postpone a fight over cutting the capital gains tax and to strip from their deficit reduction plan several poppular meaures. [1.] Producer prices jumped 0.9 percent in September after three straight declines, arousing fears of a return to worrisome inflation levels. The surge was mainly because of increases for energy and motor vehicles. [33.] Retail sales rose a moderate 0.5 percent in September, indicating consumer spending was still fairly strong, despite a slowing economy. [34.] Resolution Trust sold the assets and deposits of four insolvent savings institutions in transactions requiring $7.1 billion in Government assistance. [33.] Sales of American-built vehicles fell 12.6 percent in early October after two months of steep discounts by auto makers. [34.]
 
 
 
Companies
 The group seeking to acquire UAL failed to complete the financing of its $6.75 billion buyout. But the group said its banks advised that the deal could be financed ''on revised terms.'' [33.] Talks between Renault and Volvo are the latest sign of growing concern about increased competition in Europe in 1992, the rise of Japanese auto makers as a global force and the soaring cost of research and development. [35.] Warner filed a $1 billion lawsuit against Sony, saying Sony had induced two executives to breach contracts with Warner. [35.] Alcott & Andrews is going out of business, after failing to get its creditors' support for a 90-day financing agreement. [35.] The ''Friday the 13th'' electronic virus created high anxiety but caused very little actual damage. [37.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 Since the overhaul of the nation's tax laws, many people have rearranged trust funds and shifted assets, but investors are being advised to also update or write new wills. Your Money. [34.]
 Two graduate students patented a new cube puzzle this week that makes the original Rubik's cube seem as simple as a picture puzzle. Patents. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RANKINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (86%); AUTOMAKERS (85%); US DOLLAR (79%); BOND MARKETS (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); FUTURES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); EXPORT PRICES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ORANGE JUICE MARKETS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); ACQUISITIONS (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (68%); SAVINGS & LOANS (64%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (62%); RETAIL SALES (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 



331 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Rise of Private Guard Jobs

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Walk into a store, and a security guard looks you over. Try to enter the lobby of an apartment building and a doorman blocks the way. Arrive for an appointment at a company office and a receptionist politely but firmly checks to see if the appointment really exists.
Security people - or guard labor, as some economists call them - are proliferating today in the work force. In a nation trying to protect itself from crime and violence, they now account for at least 1.6 percent of all working Americans, double the percentage in 1970. And few occupations are growing as rapidly, the Labor Department says. 
''If you go to a sneaker outlet in a not-so-poor neighborhood in Boston, there will be three private guards,'' said Richard Freeman, a Harvard University labor economist. ''We are employing many people who are essentially not producing anything.''
 
Drag on Productivity
 The drag on productivity is the most obvious impact of employing so many people for security. The sales clerks in the Boston shoe store have to sell more shoes to pay the salaries of the guards, who do not contribute to the store's income by selling any shoes themselves.
Less noticeably, as the number of security people grows, there is a drop in the nation's median wage level - a measure of how well people can live. While the median weekly wage for all workers is now $385, the median for the nation's privately employed guards is only $273 for a 35- or 40-hour week, the Labor Department reports. Many work fewer hours. Of course, the boom in guard jobs has a positive side: without it, the unemployment rate might be a quarter of a percentage point higher than its present level of 5.2 percent, economists say. Some 1.2 million people work in the private sector as security guards, and most lack the skills to obtain other, better-paying jobs, said Robert McCrie, publisher of Security Letter, an industry newsletter.
But the big economic issue is whether the money spent on security is being wasted. Would the nation be wealthier if at least part of the huge outlay for guards' wages was diverted to other investments? So far, the answer given by consumers and business people is no. They have decided, in effect, that the level of crime and vandalism in the United States justifies the rising outlay for guard labor simply to preserve existing goods and other wealth.
 
No Clear-Cut Statistical Data
 That decision is not based on clear-cut statististical data. The National Association of Retail Merchants, for example, reported that store theft did indeed grow more slowly last year than in earlier years - leveling off at $1.96 in missing merchandise for every $100 sold. But the greater use of guards was probably not the only reason for the improvement, said Alice Bird McCord, the association's vice president.
''It is probably related to more guards, but there are other factors as well,'' she said. These include sales clerks trained to spot potential shoplifters, computerized cash registers that keep close track of inventory, television monitors and merchandise displayed in ways that make theft more difficult, she said.
If, in fact, too much is being invested in wages for security guards - either because there are other ways to deal with crime or because there is not as much crime as consumers and business people perceive - then some of the money now being spent on these payrolls could be diverted into building factories and machinery that create new wealth.
 
Some See Overspending
 Some experts believe the nation is overspending for security guards, among them Lawrence W. Sherman, a professor of criminology at the University of Maryland and a crime control consultant.
Mr. Sherman noted, for example, that apartment house owners sometimes employ two or three doormen on each shift, although one might be sufficient to prevent crime. The landlords do this, he said, to protect themselves against negligence suits brought by tenants who have been mugged and who might maintain that the crime would not have occurred if more doormen had been on duty. Juries have ruled in favor of such tenants, particularly if other landlords on the block employed, say, two doormen, while the mugged tenant's building had only one.
''When some people have more security than others, it raises the perceived standard of security in the eyes of juries,'' Mr. Sherman said.
The whole issue is clouded by another problem: No one knows what the actual outlay is because the data are too vague. The Labor Department, for example, counts 1.8 million people, in a work force of 115 million, who are employed by the private sector or government as guards, bouncers, detectives, police officers, prison guards and patrollers of shopping malls, schools, airports and even golf courses.
 
Growth of 14% - Plus - Since '84
 This corps has grown by 14 percent since 1984. But it does not include the tens of thousands of doormen, receptionists and even clerks whose tasks more and more include security. And finally, the Labor Department does not count as security personnel the more than 70,000 people who install home and office burglar alarms and video monitors.
Whatever the totals are, the growing employment is changing the way crime is fought. Most of the growth in security personnel has come in the private sector, chiefly among companies like Pinkerton's Inc., owned by CPP Security Service, and Wells Fargo Guard Services, a Borg-Warner Corporation unit, that provide guard service under contract. State and local police forces, once the backbone of crime prevention, have grown only slightly in the 1980's.
The nation, in effect, is putting less emphasis on controlling crime for everyone - the job of publicly employed police officers - and more emphasis on private police officers who carve out secure zones for those who pay for such protection.
''We are securing more and more private space and putting less effort into securing public space,'' Mr. Sherman said.
 
THE TOP 10
Guard companies ranked by total revenues. Parent companies shown in parentheses.
 
Pinkerton's (CPP Security Service)
 
Burns International Security Services (Borg-Warner)
 
Wackenhut
 
Wells Fargo Guard Services (Borg-Warner)
 
American Protection Industries
 
Globe Security Systems
 
Guardsmark
 
Stanley Smith Security Services (Mayne Nickless)
 
Allied Security
 
Advance Security (Figgie International)
 

 
Source: Security Letter

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Oct. 14 about the nation's 10 largest guard companies misidentified the fifth-largest. It is American Protective Services Inc.

GRAPHIC: Graph of employment figures for 10 largest guard companies, 1984, 1986 and 1988; graph of revenues for 10 largest guard companies, 1984, 1986 and 1988 (Source: Security Letter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (50%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: GUARDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; INDUSTRY PROFILES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); LOBBYING (89%); SHOE STORES (78%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); SHOPLIFTING (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CRIME RATES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (71%); WORK WEEK (69%); VANDALISM (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS



332 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Show A Sharp Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
After three straight declines, prices at the producer level surged nine-tenths of 1 percent in September, mainly because of increases for energy and motor vehicles.
The jump, reported by the Labor Department today, exceeded any since January, when a 1.1 percent increase in the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods aroused fears of a return to worrisome inflation levels.
The latest rise, which was at the high end of the range of expectations, was considered a factor in the weakness of the stock market, where prices plunged late in the day. The dollar was initially buoyed by the producer price data, but it fell sharply late in the day as traders reacted to the stock market's drop. 
 
Differing Assessments
 Economists were divided in their assessment of the price data: some were reassured about inflation when they looked beneath the surface while others were not. But there was widespread agreement that the latest figures reduced the chances that the Federal Reserve would soon make additional moves to push interest rates lower.
Hopes for a further easing of credit, a process that seems to have been all but suspended since July, seemed to improve last Friday when the Government reported a startlingly large 103,000 drop in factory jobs for September.
Today's figures are thought likely to confirm the Fed's presumed caution about further credit-easing, a caution grounded not only in the insistence of the Fed on keeping inflation in check but in asserting its independence in the face of challenges from both Congress and the Bush Administration.
One of those troubled by the September price figures was Stephen S. Roach, a senior economist at Morgan Stanley & Company. ''They're disconcerting, to say the least,'' he said, noting that capital equipment jumped a full 1 percent and that 17 of the 24 capital items rose in price, while only four fell and three were unchanged.
He also pointed out that finished goods excluding the volatile food and energy sectors climbed seven-tenths of 1 percent last month, the biggest increase of the year.
But others took some comfort in the fact that price increases for energy and motor vehicles accounted for nearly all of the September jump.
 
'Only Two Bad Guys'
 ''This report was only superficially bad,'' said William C. Melton, chief economist at I.D.S. Financial Services in Minneapolis. Terming energy and vehicles the ''only two bad guys,'' he added that the price jump for vehicles was mainly related to the timing of clearances at the end of the model year while the price of oil could well fall again in coming months.
The Fed confronts ''no serious inflation problems,'' Mr. Melton contended, though he did observe that there was more inflation pressure at the consumer level than was showing up with the gauges that cover prices received by domestic producers. Unlike the Consumer Price Index, 54 percent of which is composed of services, the producer indexes have no direct service component at all.
The September consumer index, which is expected by many analysts to rise by four-tenths of 1 percent, is to be published on Thursday.
 
Statistical Fluke Seen
 Daniel Fell, an analyst at Carroll McEntee & McGinley Inc., seemed neither worried nor complacent about the inflation report. He said that while ''this tells us that inflation is coming back into the picture,'' comfort could be taken in that last month's 3.8 percent climb in passenger car prices was a statistical fluke.
Car makers sought to clear inventories of 1989 models earlier than usual this year, with the main downward pressure on the index occurring in July. A relatively modest five-tenths of 1 percent actual decline for September was thus transformed into a big statistical rise when seasonal adjustment factors - assuming a much larger decline - were applied.
The two indexes that track prices at the intermediate and crude stages of production also presented mixed signals today. Intermediate goods rose four-tenths of 1 percent after three slightly smaller declines, while crude goods rose 1.1 percent after a 1.9 percent drop in August.
In the production of a suit of clothes, a finished good, the intermediate stage would be a bolt of cloth and the crude stage would be raw wool or cotton.
 
Offset by Drop in Food
 The price index for finished goods, which rebounded to its May level, indicated that the jump in car prices and the 6.5 percent climb in energy prices were slightly offset by a drop of six-tenths of 1 percent for food. Prices turned down for beef and veal, pork, fish and pasta, while declines accelerated for fresh and dried vegetables and processed turkeys. Prices turned up for processed chickens, roasted coffee and shortening and cooking oils.
Among intermediate goods, energy provided most of the lift, but durable manufacturing materials - with copper and brass mill shapes up about 8 percent - rose four-tenths of 1 percent while nondurable materials eased by three-tenths of 1 percent.
In the crude sector, oil rose by 5 percent after a 10.5 percent drop in August, while food prices fell despite an 18 percent leap for chickens.
For the third quarter, the finished goods index rose at an annual rate of four-tenths of 1 percent, down sharply from the 5.1 percent rate in the second quarter and the 10.2 percent rate for the January-March period.

GRAPHIC: Graph of index of finished goods prices, April 1988-Sept. 1989 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (66%); IDS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (51%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES PRODUCER PRICES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (52%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR



333 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Group Fails To Finish UAL Deal

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
The group seeking to acquire the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, said yesterday that it had failed to complete the financing of its $6.75 billion buyout. But the group said its banks had advised that the deal could be financed ''on revised terms.''
The announcement by the group, which includes United's pilots' union, UAL executives and British Airways P.L.C., helped bring on a plunge in the stock market yesterday.
The New York Stock Exchange halted trading of UAL stock shortly after 3 P.M. While the stock was down $5.50 a share, to $279.75, at the halt of trading, the West Coast brokerage firm Jefferies & Company, which trades stock after the markets close in New York, said UAL stock was trading at $230 a share in London, down more than $55, late yesterday. The buyout price is $300 a share. The stock traded below $120 a share in early June before a bidding war began. 
 
Pressure on Other Deals
 The problems with financing and the sharp drop in the market could put pressure on buyout proposals like Donald J. Trump's offer to buy the AMR Corporation, parent of American Airlines, for $120 a share. Jefferies said AMR stock was trading at $81 share in after-hours markets yesterday, down from $98.625 at closing on the New York Stock Exchange.
Financial advisers to unions and Wall Street analysts said several factors about financing the UAL deal troubled potential lenders, particularly the Japanese. One was fierce opposition to the buyout by the machinists' union at United Airlines, which has argued that the buyout would put UAL too heavily in debt, that it had been based on overly optimistic projections and that it could threaten the viability of the union's pension plans.
 
Tough Negotiations
 Another factor, they said, was the tough stance taken by UAL management in negotiating with lender banks on interest rates and terms for the financing. A third was attempts in Congress and the Administration to put more controls on leveraged buyouts.
The UAL buyout appeared to be moving toward completion until two days ago, when the machinists asked the Labor Department to review the proposed deal.
The buyout group had a letter of commitment that Citibank and the Chase Manhattan Bank had agreed to provide $3 billion in financing for the transaction and that they would make their best efforts to secure an additional $4.2 billion.
Owen Dowd, a senior vice president with Oppenheimer & Company who has followed the airline buyouts, said he thought the buyout group, the Airline Acquisition Corporation, could still complete the financing of more than $7.2 billion.
He said, however, that the group would have to agree to higher interest rates and would probably have to scale back the fees for its investment bankers, attorneys and advisers.
Brian Freeman, the financial adviser to the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers at United, said some Japanese lenders had called John Peterpaul, a vice president of the union, to consult with him about the buyout.
 
Seeking a New Contract
 In addition to asking the Labor Department to review the deal, the machinists' union has asked UAL to open talks on a new contract.
Mr. Peterpaul has warned that the transaction, which would give the pilots' union and nonunionized employees 75 percent of the stock and a large voice in the company, could lead to labor unrest.
An arbitrager who has followed the UAL transaction said strong opposition by the machinists had made potential Japanese investors nervous. The arbitrager, who asked not to be identified, also said the tough position on interest rates might have backfired because it had postponed closing the agreements.
 
Banks Grow Nervous
 Mr. Dowd said attempts by some members of Congress to push through legislation that would let the Department of Transportation to review buyouts before completion had also made banks nervous.
He also cited recent actions and speeches by Samuel K. Skinner, the Secretary of Transportation, who has expressed concern that large debt could force carriers to cut back on maintenance.
It did not help UAL's case that British Airways was putting up $750 million, or more than 75 percent, of the equity in the deal. Mr. Skinner has also expressed concern about the influence that foreign carriers could wield over United States airlines.
 
'Adverse Changes'
 In a statement issued yesterday, the Airline Acquisition Corporation said the inability by the banks to raise the money stemmed from ''adverse changes in the market for this transaction, as presently structured.''
Sandy Gardiner, a spokesman for British Airways, said, ''We are still confident that the acquisition bid will be put together.''
If the group should falter, Marvin Davis, the Los Angeles financier who was a rival bidder, has offered to pay $300 a share as a backup bid.
But Mr. Davis has conceded that the pilot-management group's bid was worth up to $350 a share because the pilots have agreed to grant $250 million a year in concessions in return for a stake in the company through an employee stock ownership plan. Mr. Davis was traveling yesterday and could not be reached for comment.
Mr. Davis courted the unions, including the pilots, for support for his bid, but was unsuccessful.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (84%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (83%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (70%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UAL INC; INTERNATIONAL MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS ASSN OF; UNITED AIRLINES

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CREDIT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES BUYINS & BUYOUTS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (86%); BANK FAILURES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



334 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales in September Advanced a Moderate 0.5%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Retail sales rose a moderate five-tenths of 1 percent last month, the Government said today. Analysts said the report showed consumer spending was still fairly strong, despite a slowing economy.
The Commerce Department said sales rose to a seasonally adjusted $145.2 billion last month after gaining seven-tenths of 1 percent in both August and July. The July figure was revised upward from the five-tenths of 1 percent first reported. 
''It shows there's good, solid consumer spending out there,'' said John Silvia, an economist with Kemper Financial Services in Chicago.
''Even excluding automobiles, sales were up four-tenths of 1 percent,'' Mr. Silvia said. ''Furniture, department and drug stores, they all were good sales numbers, and I think that's what we want to see. We don't want to see a recession.''
 
Third of Overall Activity
 Retail sales account for about one-third of the nation's economic activity and are one of a number of indicators watched by analysts to determine whether the Federal Reserve Board's tight-credit policies are threatening to stall out the economy or just slow it enough to keep inflation in check.
Retail sales have risen every month since February, except for June, when they were unchanged. On the other hand, the manufacturing sector of the economy has grown sluggish, partly, Mr. Silvia said, because of slowing exports.
Lawrence A. Hunter, deputy chief economist for the United States Chamber of Commerce, said the Fed should not interpret the retail sales report as a sign of excess demand overheating the economy.
''To the contrary, price discounts and 'everyday low prices' are fueling the rise in consumer spending,'' Mr. Hunter said.
 
Lower Interest Rates Urged
 He called on the Fed to reduce interest rates and thus induce businesses to invest more to meet growing consumer demand.
Durable goods sales slowed to a gain of six-tenths of 1 percent in September, the Department of Commerce said, following a strong 2 percent gain in August that was aided in part by a 2.2 percent rise in automobile sales.
But the early summer sales were driven by end-of-model-year incentives that are usually offered in September; that distorted the auto sales gain of five-tenths of 1 percent reported in September, analysts said.
The gain of five-tenths of 1 percent reflected higher prices in September because dealers did not discount vehicles as they usually do, according to David Jones, an economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Company in New York. Unit sales actually dropped by 400,000 vehicles in the month, he said.
Besides automobiles, sales of other durable goods categories split - furniture and other home furnishing sales gained 1.3 percent while building materials fell 1.8 percent.
Nondurable goods sales rose four-tenths of 1 percent, in contrast to a drop of one-tenth of 1 percent in August. All categories except apparel gained: department stores, 1.7 percent; grocery stores, three-tenths of 1 percent; gasoline stations, three-tenths of 1 percent; restaurants and bars, two-tenths of 1 percent, and drugstores, 1.4 percent.
Apparel sales were down five-tenths of 1 percent after rising eight-tenths of 1 percent the previous month.
For July through September, overall retail sales were up 6.4 percent. Retail sales so far in 1989 were 6.1 percent above those in the first nine months of 1988.

GRAPHIC: Graph of total retail sales, April 1988-Sept. 1989 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (60%); KEMPER FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES RETAIL SALES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); RETAILERS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); INTEREST RATES (62%); 



335 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Logic Behind Volvo-Renault Talks

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Talks between Renault of France and Volvo of Sweden about possible joint efforts are the latest sign of growing concern about increased competition in Europe when trade barriers fall in 1992, the rise of Japanese auto makers as a global force and the soaring cost of research and development.
While analysts caution that the discussions are very preliminary, they do not rule out the possibility of a full-fledged merger between Volvo A.B. and Regie Nationale des Usines Renault, as the two companies are formally known. On the other hand, there would be formidable obstacles to such an arrangement, including possible opposition from governments and labor unions. 
''Suddenly companies have to think much more creatively than ever before,'' said Maryann Keller, an automotive analyst at Furman Selz Mager Dietz & Birney Inc. ''A combination between Volvo and Renault is quite sensible. There's an awakening in Europe that the old rules don't apply.''
 
Other Talks Taking Place
 Indeed, Jaguar P.L.C. and Saab-Scania A.B., another Swedish automotive concern, have recently discussed possible joint ventures and alliances with competitors. Other talks are taking place that have not become public, analysts said.
''Everybody is talking to everybody,'' said Dagmar Bottenbruch, automotive analyst for Credit Suisse First Boston in London. But in the case of Renault, she said, ''The question is how would you arrange this kind of a transaction; Renault is almost like a government agency.''
Three years ago, when the Ford Motor Company discussed a merger with Fiat S.p.A., the talks foundered on the question of which company would have supreme authority. Karl Ludvigsen of London-based Ludvigsen & Associates automotive consultants speculated that Renault would be the natural choice to predominate in any combination with Volvo because of its larger size.
 
Effect of Trade Barriers
 Renault and other auto makers in France and Italy have been protected from open competition in their home markets by trade barriers, which are scheduled to fall at the end of 1992. As a result of this protection, Renault and others have not been exposed to marketplace discipline that would, for example, force productivity and quality increases in factories. As a result, they have become less competitive internationally, especially against Japanese vehicles.
Sweden, on the other hand, is one of the few countries in the world with little protection against Japanese imports. ''Japanese cars are very popular here,'' said Hans Renstroem, head of corporate press relations for Volvo. Several Japanese car makers are building factories in Europe, which will give them a bigger portion of a market that is already fragmented among many companies.
Presumably, analysts speculate, Renault and Volvo want to share the vast and increasing cost of developing vehicles. Volvo, which lacks a full range of models, builds less than half a million cars annually, while Renault builds about 1.5 million.
''Production economies of scale aren't the answer for car makers, but research and development economies of scale are,'' Ms. Bottenbruch said.
 

 
FORD GETS 5% OF JAGUAR
DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 13 (AP) - The Ford Motor Company has increased its ownership share of Jaguar P.L.C. to 5 percent on its way to acquiring 15 percent of the British luxury-car maker, Ford said today. The Federal Trade Commission said last week that it would have no objection to Ford acquiring 15 percent of Jaguar. Jaguar has said Ford's move is unwelcome.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOLV.B (STO) (94%); VOLV.A (STO) (94%); RNO (PAR) (94%); RNO (BIT) (94%); FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); FSOR (PAR) (83%); F (BIT) (83%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (94%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (94%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); SWEDEN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AB VOLVO (94%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (94%); VOLVO CAR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); FIAT SPA (83%); SAAB-SCANIA AB (69%); JAGUAR PLC (69%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RENAULT CO; VOLVO AB

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; EUROPE

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MERGERS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (65%); LABOR UNIONS (55%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P



336 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Cites Sound Fundamentals

 BODY:
Although Wall Street was stunned by the selling wave that swept the stock market in the last hour of trading yesterday, it was not devastated. Some market participants attributed the 190-point, or 6.9 percent, plunge in the Dow Jones industrial average to overspeculation.
While there was froth at the top of the market, waiting to be blown away, they suggested, underneath were a fundamentally sound market and sound economy.
''It was a pig market, greedy,'' said one of the dark-suited men glumly crowding at Harry's at The American Exchange, a stockbrokers' refuge on Greenwich Street. ''There's a bull market, a bear market, and this was a pig market. 
''There was intense speculation,'' he went on. ''You overdid the bullish scenerio to the upside, you went beyond real value. The raiders stepped in.''
Harry's was jammed, the gleam of burnished tassle loafers on its maroon tile floors, at twilight of the second worst day in Wall Street history. In one corner a man leaned on the wall, sagging against his suspenders and staring into his drink.
''The market moved on air,'' said one of the brokers. ''You eroded the real value of these companies, substituting debt for real value,''
''The market may be in for some rough days and further declines.'' a leading Wall Street arbitrager remarked. Traders unloaded many of their shaky stocks to raise money for a few stocks they wanted to keep in anticipation of an avalanche of margin calls expected to go out early next week.
 
Commercial Bankers Busy
 Commercial bankers said they were far busier than normal processing the end of day loan demands from securities dealers and traders in the futures and options markets. Those bank loans are fully collateralized by securities, and bankers said it was too soon to know if borrowers would have trouble providing the collateral.
Another Wall Street concern will be for companies planning to sell stock issues, like major banks that are planning offerings to raise capital and compensate for losses on loans to third-world countries and real-estate developers.
Chase Manhattan Corportion planned to sell $500 million worth of its stock, perhaps as soon as next week. But based on yesterday's closing price of $40, down $3.625, Chase will find the sale much less attractive than earlier. The Chemical Banking Corporation, which announced plans to sell $500 million of stock on Thursday, finds itself in a similar bind.
The Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, however, escaped the worst damage. It sold 13.8 million shares of new stock on Wednesday at $43.50 a share. Yesterday, Manufacturers Hanover's stock fell $3.375, to $40.25, meaning buyers of the new stock have suffered a quick loss, but the bank has raised capital at a relatively attractive price.
Optimism was voiced in the business community. Gary L. Millenbruch, senior vice president and chief financial officer of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, the nation's third largest steel company, said ''I don't see any fundamental changes in the basic economy that would cause the market to have that kind of reaction and, as a result, I think it's something that will correct itself over time.''
The speed with which the market fell made it difficult for most individual investors to respond, said Seth J. Gersch, a general partner and director of administration at Montgomery Securities, a brokerage firm based in San Francisco.
At Wedbush Morgan Securities Inc., a Los Angeles brokerage with many affluent customers who make long-term investments, Ann Margaret A. Papa, a retail broker, said that none of the 50 clients with whom she spoke in the last trading hour placed sell orders. ''Clients I've spoken to are not panicked,'' she said.
In contrast, at Muriel Siebert & Company, a discount brokerage that caters to individuals who buy and then resell shares quickly, ''they were rushing to sell,'' said Rochelle Steinfeld, a retail broker. ''It was a madhouse.''
While most of the traders and analysts coming out of the New York Stock Exchange at 11 Wall Street in lower Manhattan yesterday afternoon were inclined to describe the event as a ''correction'' that should give rise to panic, a few did note that it came on a Friday the 13th.
Merrill Lynch issued a statement saying, ''The fundamentals are sound for a solid recovery.'' The strong United States dollar, slowing economy, easing Federal Reserve monetary policy and falling interest rates all will help stocks, the brokerage house said.
But, it added, ''Our one concern is earnings. The third-quarter earnings were showing weakness.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); SA BULL NV (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); FUTURES (78%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); 



337 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls in Hectic Day; Gold Shows Little Reaction

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Currency dealers pounded down the dollar yesterday in hectic selling set off by a sharp drop in stock prices.
Traders said alarm swept through the currency markets as prices plunged on the New York Stock Exchange. ''It just seemed everybody wanted to sell dollars,'' said Thomas Palladino, an assistant vice president at the New York office of the Amsterdam Rotterdam Bank. ''It was just a mass panic.'' 
The intensity of the stock selloff was especially unnerving because it occurred almost two years after the worst crash ever. ''There was an eerie sense of deja vu,'' said Kevin Laurie, manager of treasury operations at the Bank of Boston in New York. ''The dollar reacted to it pretty violently.''
But gold prices registered little reaction to the slump in stocks and the dollar. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, bullion for current delivery closed at $363.30 an ounce, 10 cents lower than Thursday's settlement. The Republic National Bank of New York quoted a late bid of $364.80 an ounce, compared with Thursday's late bid of $363.
 
Below 'Stop-Loss' Levels
 Dollar sales bred additional selling as the dollar sank below thresholds that professional traders had designated as ''stop-loss'' levels. In stop-loss maneuvers, traders sell to guard against possibly losing more money in case a market slide continues.
Initially yesterday, two economic reports had encouraged some dollar buying. A jump of nine-tenths of 1 percent in the Producer Price Index for September and a rise of five-tenths of 1 percent in retail sales indicated that interest rates would not decline soon.
But the early enthusiasm for dollars was dampened somewhat by unconfirmed reports that central banks had sold dollars to keep the currency in check. By the time trading was done for the day in New York, the dollar stood at 142.05 yen, down from 144.15 yen on Thursday. The loss of about 2 yen was unusually large. Earlier, in Tokyo, the dollar fell to 144.00 Japanese yen from 144.60 yen at Thursday's close and in London it edged up to 144.10 yen.
The British pound benefited from the dollar's decline. A pound brought $1.5820 late in New York against $1.5527 Thursday. In earlier London dealings, the pound rose to $1.5625, from $1.5520 late Thursday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Thursday's late rates, included: 1.8720 West German marks, down from 1.9075; 1.6420 Swiss francs, down from 1.6735; 6.34375 French francs, down from 6.4670; 1,376.00 Italian lire, down from 1,399.25, and 1.17385 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1749.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Thursday's rates, included: 1.9025 West German marks, down from 1.9068; 1.6720 Swiss francs, up from 1.6715; 6.4562 French francs, down from 6.4650; 2.1465 Dutch guilders, down from 2.1510; 1,396.50 Italian lire, down from 1,397.50, and 1.1750 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1737.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (82%); HSB (PAR) (82%); HBC (NYSE) (82%); 0005 (HKSE) (82%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (82%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); AMSTERDAM-ROTTERDAM BANK NV (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME CURRENCIES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); GERMAN MARK (74%); BONDS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); RETAIL SALES (66%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 



338 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: FEDERAL RESERVE MOVES TO PROVIDE CASH TO MARKETS

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Seeking to maintain calm in the nation's financial system, the Federal Reserve Board intends to meet any sudden demands for money that might result from the stock market's sharp plunge Friday, a top official of the nation's central bank said today.
''Markets will be able to count on us to make sure the financial system stays liquid,'' the official, who asked not to be identified, said in an interview.
The Federal Reserve's decision to make money freely available when the markets open Monday is aimed at preventing Friday's 6.9 percent drop in the Dow Jones industrial average from causing a repeat of the situation in October 1987.
 
Factors Behind the 1987 Crash
On the Friday before its 508-point plunge on Monday, Oct. 19, 1987, the Dow average fell 108.35 points. This decline, in a market that was already weakening, led many shareholders of mutual funds to cash in their shares. As the mutual funds themselves ran out of cash, they had to sell more shares, which further depressed stock prices. 
As prices fell, the waves of selling that led to the market's crash were intensified by another factor: margin calls. Many investors who had borrowed to buy stocks had their shares sold when they failed to respond to their brokers' demands for money.
In the 1987 crash, the Reserve also pumped money into the banking system, which helped stave off a financial panic, but it did not make known its intentions until after the worst of the selling.
''To calm the markets it's important that institutions know there are adequate funds available,'' the Federal Reserve official said. ''Once the markets realize there will be no credit crunch, we can resume normal business.''
 
Contact With Foreign Officials
The official said the central bank's decision was taken at meetings late Friday and was being communicated to officials in Asia and Western Europe in phone calls this weekend, not only from the Federal Reserve but also from the Treasury and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Foreign authorities are being asked to take similar steps to try to avert cash problems that could have a spillover effect on markets.
In normal times, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury and the Securities and Exchange Commission monitor financial markets almost 24 hours a day. In this weekend's emergency, the normal monitoring staffs have been beefed up. ''We expect to be in almost constant communication tomorrow,'' the Federal Reserve official said.
The Federal Reserve Board's chairman, Alan Greenspan, who returned from a trip to Moscow on Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady and the S.E.C. chairman, Richard C. Breeden, who was just sworn in Wednesday, were all in town. None of them issued statements today.
White House aides said President Bush has been kept informed of the developments.
At the Treasury, an official said two senior monetary officials of the Treasury, Under Secretary David C. Mulford and Assistant Secretary Charles Dallara, had been in touch with their counterparts in the Group of Seven, which includes the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain, Canada and Italy.
 
Outlook for Tokyo
The Washington market followers will be chiefly focusing on the Tokyo and Hong Kong markets, which will open Sunday evening Eastern time and will probably set the tone for Monday on Wall Street.
In Japan, financial executives said they did not expect a sustained downturn in the Japanese stock market, which is the world's largest, though some predicted that selling by American and other foreign investors could initially push prices down.
The executives also pointed out that Friday's drop in the Dow, which fell 190.58 points, or 6.9 percent, to 2,569.26, had one immediate catalyst: the announcement that a group trying to acquire the UAL Corporation had failed to complete financing for its $6.75 billion buyout of the parent United Airlines.
Japan's daily economic newspaper Nikkei quoted a Bank of Japan official saying: ''On Black Monday two years ago all stocks fell sharply, but this time it was only limited to merger-and-acquisition-related stocks. So we believe the possibility of its affecting Tokyo stock prices may be small.''
Some market analysts pointed out that in the 1987 crash the Tokyo exchange fell less sharply and recovered more swiftly than the American markets.
To deal with the current situation, the Federal Reserve intends to provide money for the banking system through its ''open market operations.'' It buys Treasury bills from banks, adding to reserves that banks are required to maintain against loans. The increase in reserves, in turn, frees cash that the banks can use to make new loans.
This is the reverse of how the Federal Reserve drains money from the banking system. When that is its purpose, the central bank sells Treasury bills that the banks buy, therefore reducing their reserves and curbing their loan-making ability.
 
Central Bank's Intention
The Federal Reserve official did not say whether the central bank planned to lower interest rates, which would expand the amount of credit available. But he did emphasize the Federal Reserve's intention not to let rates rise in the coming week, as they otherwise might be expected to do because of an anticipated large precautionary demand for money.
Lowering interest rates, he said, was a ''separate question'' and would depend on ''our own individual monetary assessment based on our individual assessment of the economy.''
In his analysis of Friday's market plunge, the Federal Reserve official echoed a comment made late Friday by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, who said that the drop ''doesn't signal any fundamental change in the condition of the economy.''
The Federal Reserve official said: ''I don't see conditions parallel to 1987, when we had a whole set of economic fundamentals out of balance. What we have today is related to the takeover market, rather than fundamental imbalances in the global economy.''
 
Washington and Wall Street Talk
Over the weekend, Government officials were also discussing the market drop with top exchange executives, including Richard A. Grasso, president of the New York Stock Exchange.
The Big Board was not taking any unusual actions, a spokeswoman, Sharon Gamsin, said, because it is confident that it has adequately prepared through procedures installed over the past two years.
But some traders and exchanges expressed concern over the weekend about the impact of one procedure intended to prevent the market's collapse, a temporary halt in trading. And other officials pointed out that the exchanges had yet to adopt some changes that were viewed as necessary after the 1987 crash.
On Tuesday or Wednesday, the S.E.C.'s Mr. Breeden is expected to testify before the House finance subcommittee of Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, which has been in the midst of hearings on market legislation. Mr. Markey wants the S.E.C. chief to reconstruct Friday's trading to determine who did the selling and why.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (52%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; ASIA; EUROPE, WEST

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



339 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: Congress Skirts And May Revise Law on Deficit

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Just as Congress completes one of its most embarrassing failures to meet the requirements of the deficit-reduction law, lawmakers in both parties appear to be focusing seriously on ways to change the statute.
Some of the proposals are meant mostly for political consumption. Others are intended to force more serious budget cutting, but even their proponents acknowledge that it may be impossible to avoid the sort of gimmickry that characterized the process this year.
 
Hearings and Strategies
Legislators and scholars disagree over whether the four-year-old law has, on balance, been good for the country. But there is little disagreement on two points: The law has led to a shortsighted approach in which quick fixes and artificial devices replaced long-range policy making. On the other hand, it has held down Government spending, at least somewhat. 
The Senate Budget Committee plans hearings on the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget law next week. A group of senior House Democrats is also meeting to prepare their strategy for changing the law.
Some of the proposed changes would exclude the Social Security surplus from the budget accounting. Others would try to put a stop to devices that reduce the deficit only on paper.
Those changes may be acted on as early as the end of this month, when Congress considers legislation to raise the statutory ceiling on the national debt.
The pressure for change was highlighted when the two Houses left for the weekend without completing action on a budget bill required to adjust spending levels to anticipated revenue. As a result, across-the-board spending cuts in Government programs, mandated by the deficit-reduction law, will go into effect, at least theoretically, on Monday.
But experts in Congress and the agencies say the effect of the spending cuts will not be felt in most programs for a month or more. If Congress approves a budget by then, as expected, the spending levels will almost certainly be restored.
 
Bigger Than Estimated
The 1985 law - sponsored by Senators Phil Gramm of Texas and Warren B. Rudman of New Hampshire, both Republicans, and Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina, a Democrat - was enacted to provide a framework for reducing the budget deficit. It set specific deficit targets for each fiscal year until 1991, when no deficit was to remain at all. At the time, Senator Rudman called the measure ''a bad idea whose time has come.''
But because the size of the deficit was vastly underestimated when the law was passed, the original goal proved unattainable. In 1987, Congress revised the law to stretch out the targets until the 1993 fiscal year.
Under the law, if enough spending reductions and tax increases to meet the annual targets have not been enacted shortly after the fiscal year begins, spending cuts are automatic, divided evenly between military and domestic programs. Social Security and many programs for the poor are exempt, but most others must be cut by whatever percentage is necessary to lower the deficit to the target amount.
But the targets refer only to the projected deficit each year, not to the actual deficit. Spending cuts are never put into effect once the Administration's Office of Management and Budget projects that the annual target will be met. And while the legal target has been met each year until this one, the actual deficit has proved to be much higher.
 
Off by $24 Billion
For example, in fiscal year 1989, which ended Sept. 30, the Administration projected that the $136 billion target would be met. But the actual deficit turned out to be more than $160 billion, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Legislation now before Congress would reduce the projected deficit in the current fiscal year below the target of $100 billion. But staff economists in Congress expect that by this time next year it will be clear that the deficit for fiscal 1990 was actually about $130 billion.
One reason the projections are so optimistic is that the Office of Management and Budget has tended to use favorable forecasts of the state of the economy. Another is that once the targets have theoretically been met and the threat of automatic spending cuts is past, the President and Congress often shift spending so it will not affect the next year's target.
Just recently, for instance, a military payday was moved to Sept. 30 from Oct. 1 so it would fall in the 1989 fiscal year instead of 1990, and some payments to farmers were also advanced. Those moves reduced the 1990 deficit by about $4 billion and raised the 1989 deficit by the same amount.
 
Other Kinds of Gimmicks
That is not the only kind of gimmick. Much of the cost of rescuing failed savings and loan institutions was structured so it would not count in the budget deficit, even though that made the bail-out more expensive. Congress and President Bush have agreed to remove the Postal Service and its deficit from the budget altogether. And measures are often enacted that are inexpensive in the beginning but become costly in future years.
As a result, the budget legislation now before Congress, while reducing the deficit in the current fiscal year, would actually increase it by billions of dollars a year down the road.
The law ''provides all the wrong incentives,'' said Representative Leon E. Panetta, the California Democrat who is chairman of the House Budget Committee. ''It encourages everyone to focus on the day-to-day funding of this or that program and not on long-term fiscal policy.''
Senator Jim Sasser, the Tennessee Democrat who heads the Senate Budget Committee, agrees with that analysis. ''You keep two sets of books,'' he said. ''The official book is based on phony savings, and then there's a real set where you leave unaddressed the problems that are getting worse.''
Nonetheless, Mr. Sasser concedes that the law ''has served a useful purpose in some instances.''
 
'Budget Myopia' Is Perceived
Robert D. Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office and Congress's chief economist, agreed that the law encouraged ''budget myopia,'' but he added: ''In fact, deficits are lower and spending has been restrained. It's messy, and certainly there's been a lot of evasion. But I ask, where would we be without Gramm-Rudman?''
Senators Gramm and Rudman note that the annual deficit, more than $230 billion and rising when the law was passed, has been cut in half in four years. They acknowledge that much of that improvement is due to an improved economy, but they say their law deserves some of the credit. The rate of growth of Federal spending has slowed significantly, they observe.
Some expensive programs like revenue sharing and urban development action grants were abolished, largely because deficit ceilings had been imposed. And lawmakers of both parties agree that had it not been for the law, Congress would have ordered much more spending this year for drug programs without finding a way to pay for them.
Mr. Gramm said that calling the law a failure because it had not achieved all its goals was like ''defining the success of religion by the number of saints in the world.''
 
The Social Security Factor
Supporters and critics alike agree that the law masks the real size of the Government's operating deficit, the gap between annual expenditures and taxes not earmarked for Social Security.
That is because more money is collected each year in Social Security payroll taxes than is paid out in benefits. The surplus, $65 billion this year and rising at a rate of $10 billion to $15 billion a year, is invested in Treasury securities. It has been earmarked to pay benefits of retired people in the next century and can be used for no other purpose.
Nonetheless, under the budget law, the annual surplus can be counted to offset the deficit. If it were not counted, the deficit in the current fiscal year would be higher by $65 billion, or at least 50 percent.
Senate and House Democratic leaders announced last week that they would propose to remove the Social Security account from the budget law's accounting and to raise the deficit targets each year by exactly the amount of the Social Security surplus. Under that plan, the entire deficit would theoretically be eliminated by 1997.
 
Democrats Seize Advantage
This proposal would make it neither easier nor harder to reduce the deficit in the next few years, since the amount of deficit reduction needed to meet the annual targets in the immediate future would remain precisely the same. But the Democrats used it as a political platform to proclaim their fealty to the Social Security program and to accuse President Bush of understating the size of the deficit.
Although the Democrats said it was not their intention, Senators Gramm and Rudman objected that the proposal might open the way for expansions of Social Security and other benefits for the elderly. ''It could become a convenient pot with which to fund other programs,'' Mr. Gramm said.
Mr. Gramm and Mr. Rudman have proposed leaving Social Security in the accounting until the overall deficit has been eliminated. Beginning in 1994, they would require a reduction in spending in all other areas to offset the Social Security surplus.
Democrats in the House have not decided what changes they want to make in the law. But Representative Panetta suggested that steps should be taken to prevent spending transfers between fiscal years and to require more realistic economic assumptions from the Office of Management and Budget.
But many experts doubt that such changes would make much difference. ''Budgets are like ethics in that you can't legislate compliance,'' said Stanley E. Collender, a budget specialist at Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm. ''Politicians will always come up with gimmicks to get around the rules.''

GRAPHIC: Legislators and scholars disagree over whether the 4-year-old Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget law has been good for the country, and lawmakers in both parties appear to be focusing on ways to change the law. From the left, Senators Warren B. Rudman, Phil Gramm and Ernest F. Hollings. (NYT/Jose R. Lopez) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E PHIL GRAMM (89%); 



340 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Town Fights With Neighbors Over Burning of Tons of Tires

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STERLING, Conn.

 BODY:
In this poor rural town near the Rhode Island border, officials say they have found a solution to their financial woes that would also help clean up much of the Northeast: a power plant that burns 10 million discarded tires a year.
Not only would the plant pay nearly $1 million a year in property taxes, nearly doubling Sterling's tax revenues, officials say, it would also provide a regional solution to one facet of the nation's growing garbage crisis.
''The plant is the answer to a town that would have died without it,'' said Trenton Wright, Sterling's coordinator of economic development.
 
Worrying About Next Door
But as Sterling hails the power plant as its economic salvation, many neighboring towns fear the incinerator will draw more truck traffic onto narrow country roads and spew toxic smoke; 10 miles downwind are reservoirs that provide most of Rhode Island's drinking water. Debate rages over the right of one town to shape its own destiny at the expense of its neighbors. 
''Sterling is looking for a quick fix to its economic problems, but they're not worried about what's happening next door,'' said Dr. Jerald Kupperberg, a pediatrician in Foster, R.I., and president of a group of Rhode Islanders who have sued to block the plant.
Thomas E. Steahr, a professor of demography at the University of Connecticut, said there is a conflict between a town's autonomy ''and its negative consequences in surrounding communities.''
 
Poorest Town in Wealthiest State
The conflict here can be seen in different forms throughout the Northeast as local officials struggle to assert local control over development that has a regional impact.
Near Princeton, N.J., the Route 1 corridor is choking on traffic largely because several towns approved office complexes without considering what their neighbors were building. In New Haven, city officials have fought malls in nearby suburbs, fearing that new shopping centers would lure away what downtown stores remained.
In Sterling, the poorest town in the wealthiest state, the argument boils down to economic survival. Sterling, with 2,100 people, has a per capita income of $8,710, the lowest in Connecticut. The statewide average is $14,090.
Unemployment here is 6.9 percent, more than twice the state average of 3.4 percent.
The Revere Prints Textile Corporation mill, the town's largest employer, burned down in 1980. Sterling now has a couple of general stores, two post offices and six churches. The last gas station closed a few years ago.
''We need industry,'' said Ed Morneau, a poultry farmer and greenhouse operator here.
That was the idea in 1985 when Sterling opened a 70-acre industrial park on town land that offered tax incentives to prospective companies. The power plant was the park's centerpiece.
But not everyone in Sterling embraced the plan. In February 1986, residents voted 423 to 368 to reject the plant. A month later, after campaigning by the plant's supporters, residents approved it in a second vote, 513 to 424. #25 Tractor-Trailers a Day This summer, after nearly three years of tumultuous hearings before the Connecticut Siting Council, a regulatory agency, and the state's Department of Environmental Protection, the plant received its final permits.
The $100 million plant, to be built over two years by the Oxford Energy Company of Santa Rosa, Calif., would burn about 10 million tires a year. Every day, 25 to 30 tractor-trailers would bring discarded tires to the plant from tire dealers, bus fleets, junkyards and towns within a 200-mile radius.
The plant would use the tires as fuel to produce 26.5 megawatts of electricity, enough power for 25,000 homes, which would be sold to the Connecticut Light and Power Company.
Sterling officials say the plant will help the town in several ways. Oxford expects to hire 200 to 250 local workers to build it. ''Our lunch business would be outrageous,'' said Steve Zienowicz, who bought Whitford's General Store here three months ago. #50 Jobs, $1 Million in Taxes The plant has attracted other companies to the industrial park. Mr. Morneau plans to buy the lot next to the incinerator and pipe in excess steam from the complex to heat an expanded greenhouse business.
Some of the 50 permanent jobs at the plant will go to town residents, but the main contribution by Oxford will be nearly $1 million a year in property taxes.
First Selectman Robert P. Jordan said the town would probably use the money to reduce property taxes, expand Town Hall and equip its offices with computers, build new ball fields and recreation centers and buy new firefighting equipment.
''It'll be a great boon to the community,'' said Brian Keith, president of the Sterling Board of Education.
Some of Sterling's neighbors, however, have serious concerns. In nearby Plainfield, a town of 14,000 that wanted the plant but lost to Sterling, residents now worry about truckloads of tires rumbling through their streets.
 
Hunting, Fishing, Property Values
''We're concerned that the routes that will be used aren't safe,'' said the First Selectman, Joseph D. Taverna, adding that Plainfield will have to hire two more police officers to deal with the traffic.
The greatest fears, however, center on the plant's environmental safety. People who hunt and fish express concern that emissions could harm lakes and streams.
''People are also afraid it will devalue their property,'' said Rachel Allard, a hotel clerk who lives near the border of Plainfield and Sterling.
Prevailing winds would carry emissions into Rhode Island, where residents fear pollutants could contaminate the Scituate Reservoir, the main source of drinking water for 60 percent of Rhode Island.
''Connecticut seems to be getting whatever good out of this and we're getting all the pollution,'' said Deborah Stein, a 29-year-old mother in Foster.
 
Complied With All Requirements
Officials from Sterling and Oxford say that the plant poses no environmental hazard. Connecticut and Rhode Island environmental officials agreed, after analyzing data on the emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrous oxides and hydrocarbons from a smaller incinerator that Oxford operates in Modesto, Calif.
The Sterling plant has ''complied with all the state and Federal requirements, and has probably gone beyond those,'' said Mark M. Hultman, an air pollution control engineer with the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.
Indeed, before the department issued permits for air emissions, solid waste and water discharge this summer, the agency required Oxford to agree to install $2 million in additional downwind monitoring equipment to protect the reservoir.
Oxford officials argue that the plant provides an environmentally sound answer to tire disposal. Right now, there are an estimated 2 billion discarded tires in this country. Recycling efforts have been slow and with landfill space around the country shrinking, experts have been searching for a safe and efficient disposal method.
 
Trapping Gray in Gray Smoke
Using technology introduced at its two-year-old California plant, Oxford plans to install a pollution-control system in the incinerator here that would trap three major pollutants that could be recycled. Steel from belted tires would be sold to scrap metal dealers. Fly ash - the gray in gray smoke, heavily laden with zinc oxide - would be captured by a large vacuum cleaner and sold to zinc smelters.
Finally, scrubbers to control air emissions would spray lime on the emissions. The lime would combine with the pollutant sulfur to form gypsum, a building material. Furnaces burning at temperatures between 2,000 and 2,500 degrees Fahrenheit would incinerate the tires without any noticeable smoke or odor, state officials said.
''I don't feel like we're creating problems for our neighbors,'' said Mr. Jordan, who visited Oxford's tire-burning plant in California. ''There's no black smoke. There's no smell. It's clean.''
Despite assurances from environmental experts, many Connecticut and Rhode Island residents and officials remain wary. ''Tire-burning is an unproven technology,'' said Allan Rydberg, president of the Concerned Citizens of Sterling, a community group that opposes the incinerator and urges more research into tire recycling.
 
'Only Time Will Tell'
''The bottom line is that we're still going to get a lot of emissions from the plant and only time will tell what impact that will have on the people of Rhode Island,'' said Anna F. Prager, senior policy analyst for the Governor, Edward D. DiPrete. ''It doesn't make Sterling the best neighbor.''
As a result of the Sterling plant, Rhode Island enacted a state law last summer than prohibits shipping tires across state lines for burning.
''There are alternate industries -they can't be that desperate,'' said Blanche Fraser, 61, who is selling her house in West Greenwich, R.I., five miles from Sterling, partly out of fears of air pollution.
Not all of Sterling's neighbors, particularly in eastern Connecticut, think the incinerator is such a bad idea. ''They could put one right next to my house and it wouldn't bother me,'' said Willis G. Maynard, the First Selectman of Voluntown, a town of 2,000 on Sterling's southern border that was an alternative site for the plant.
Other officials, convinced that the incinerator technology is safe, expressed hope that if the region's poorest economy can improve, the entire area will profit.
''We all benefit when there's industrial growth,'' said R. Thomas Homan, the town manager of Killingly, just north of Sterling. ''The question becomes, what is acceptable growth?''

GRAPHIC: A proposed tire-burning plant in Sterling, Conn., which has been hailed as the town's salvation, is not without its critics. ''Sterling is looking for a quick fix to its economic problems, but they're not worried about what's happening next door,'' said Dr. Jerald Kupperberg, president of a group of Rhode Islanders who have sued to block the plant. He is shown at the site being cleared for the plant (NYT/Steve Miller); map of Connecticut indicating Sterling (NYT) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OEN (AMEX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS313310 TEXTILE & FABRIC FINISHING MILLS (62%); SIC2261 FINISHERS OF BROADWOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: TEXTILE CORP SDN BHD (62%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;STERLING (CONN); RHODE ISLAND

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; INCINERATORS; TIRES; WATER POLLUTION; WATER; AIR POLLUTION; RESERVOIRS WATER POLLUTION (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); TIRES (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); CITIES (73%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); TAX LAW (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); WATER QUALITY (66%); RETAILERS (61%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (60%); POULTRY (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC



341 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1905 words

HEADLINE: Spain's Prosperity Comes a Measure of Pain

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MADRID

 BODY:
Streets crowded with new cars and restaurants crowded with new rich, foreign capital pouring in and stock markets taking off, luxury apartments at Fifth Avenue prices and stylish young people in the latest designs.
After seven years of Socialist government, Spain has been transformed into a collage of dazzling images as a country long known for its dour and isolated way of life has launched itself on a hectic adventure of change and modernization.
Behind the glitter, there are solid achievements. Since joining the European Community in 1986, Spain has enjoyed the region's fastest economic growth rate. In the process, with the middle classes spending as never before, more than 1.5 million new jobs have been created. 
 
Unemployment and Taxes
But another Spain has not kept pace, a Spain that with its expanding work force still has an unemployment rate of 17 percent, Europe's highest, where six million pensioners live on a pittance and dreams of the good life have run up against stiff taxes, poor public services and rising urban crime.
Now, with general elections scheduled for Oct. 29, these two Spains have come into sharper focus than at any other time since democracy returned here in 1975 as Spaniards prepare to give their verdict on the kind of Socialism they have been experiencing.
At the center of the debate is Felipe Gonzalez, who at 47 years of age is seeking a third term as Prime Minister. Felipe, as he is widely known, is both credited and blamed for Spain's metamorphosis in the 1980's.
 
Pro-Business Pragmatism
His critics on the left charge that he has betrayed Socialism by adopting pro-business, anti-labor policies that they characterize as Thatcherism. His admirers contend that by ignoring traditional Socialist dogma, he has designed the development strategy Spain needs.
The victory of his Socialist Workers' Party is not in doubt, because none of the competing leftist, rightist or regional parties seems to represent a credible option. But it is unclear if the Socialists can keep control of Parliament. The main opposition objective is to force Mr. Gonzalez into a coalition.
Polls show that the Socialists, who won 202 seats in 1982 and 184 in 1986, may just win the 176 seats necessary for a majority in the 350-member lower house. But polls also indicate increased support for a United Left alliance, a reflection of worker disenchantment with recent economic policy.
 
Widely Respected Abroad
The malaise at home contrasts sharply with Mr. Gonzalez's image abroad. Latin America's new democratic leaders view the thoughtful young Spaniard as something of a role model. In European capitals, he enjoys wide respect, with President Francois Mitterrand of France pointedly planning to visit here just days before the election.
Washington's early qualms about a Socialist Government in Spain have been replaced by admiration for Mr. Gonzalez's economic and political record. On Thursday, President Bush will receive him for lunch at the White House, a clear nod of approval in the middle of an election campaign.
But while Mr. Gonzalez wants to keep Spain's attention focused on the future - on the twin challenges of prospering in a highly competitive single European market after 1992 and of catching up with Western Europe's living standards by the year 2000 - many Spaniards seem intent on measuring how they are faring today.
''Felipe is looking after businessmen more than the workers,'' said Almudena Delgado de Rico, who supplements her husband's income as a truck driver by working as a cleaning woman. ''He's done more negative than positive things. He's more to the right than the left.''
Yet for many Spaniards, the process of change here today goes far beyond right versus left or rich versus poor. Social habits, cultural traditions, family life, sexual behavior and educational priorities are all being shaken to the point that Spaniards suddenly have difficulty recognizing themselves.
''The old image of Spain as a country of flamenco, bullfights and girls with flowers in their teeth was always false,'' said Matilde Gonzalez, a 25-year-old art historian. ''Spain was always a backward and repressed nation. Today it is breaking free, but it still doesn't know what it wants to be.''
 
Consensus Reached On Design for Future
 In a sense, though, the grand design for the future is already in place. Just 14 years ago, Spain was in the last days of the dictatorship of Gen. Francisco Franco, but today democracy is taken for granted, with the wounds of the 1936-39 civil war well healed.
By joining the European Community, the country also implicitly accepted the prevailing rules of capitalism. ''The broad lines of the party platforms run very close to each other,'' the respected daily El Pais said in an editorial. ''The confrontation is no longer between models of society but, more modestly, between budget priorities.''
Even the changes in Spanish society are now seen as irreversible. Divorce and abortion have been legalized, while women who once seemed happy to be obedient wives and doting mothers have begun joining the work force in droves. Church attendance has tumbled, forcing the Roman Catholic hierarchy to cede its traditional place at the center of power.
It is therefore a symptom of Spain's political maturity that the current campaign is dominated by the same kind of mundane issues - jobs, taxes, housing, pensions and the like - that are the stuff of elections in other Western democracies.
But this has also meant that the consensus that marked the country's exciting and risky transition from dictatorship to democracy is now giving way to greater confusion. Specifically, what is an economic success story to some Spaniards is a source of intense frustration to others.
 
Gonzalez's Emphasis On Economic Growth
 Mr. Gonzalez, who forced his party to abandon its commitment to Marxism in 1979, demonstrated early on that he planned to govern pragmatically rather than ideologically. He has always insisted that he remains a Socialist, but his point was that social progress would be only possible only with economic growth.
''Everyone who has moved toward a democratic and flexible kind of socialism, everyone who has avoided turning his ideas into a religious code, has been considered a traitor,'' he said in a recent conversation at the French-style Moncloa Palace where he works and lives. ''For example, nationalizations have always been a leftist banner. Yet nothing in history shows that nationalizations bring greater freedom, justice or equality.''
Instead of confronting the private sector, he therefore set about repairing an economy that had been in recession since 1974. The social cost was high. A process of ''industrial reconversion'' forced hundreds of uncompetitive businesses into bankruptcy and put 1.5 million people out of work. At the worst moment, in 1985, 22 percent of the work force was unemployed.
The economy, though, reacted well to this shock. Entry into the European Community in 1986 further bolstered confidence. Soon, foreign investment exceeding $10 billion a year was pouring in, while Spanish businessmen erupted with entrepreneurial energy. Yuppie bankers replaced brave matadors as press heroes and the pursuit of profits became respectable.
Statistics confirmed the turnaround. Spain's growth rate rose from 2.5 percent in 1985 to 4 percent in 1986, 5.5 percent in 1987, 5.3 percent in 1988 and a likely 4.7 percent in 1989, in each case 1.5 to 2 percentage points higher than the European Community average. Less agreeable symptoms have been traffic jams aggravated by the 1.2 million new cars sold last year and a real estate boom fed by speculation. Excessive Consumption Spurs Leftist Opposition Now cecessivcoconsumption is the problem. ''We're growing a lot, but we're consuming faster than we grow,'' Mr. Gonzalez explained. ''And this creates very serious imbalances in the economy.'' Inflation is already hurting the tourist industry, while surging imports have spawned a current account payments deficit forecast at more than $11 billion for 1989.
The Government tightened credit to slow consumer spending in July, although one reason thought to have prompted Mr. Gonzalez to call elections eight months early is that tougher austerity measures may be needed after the elections to prevent the economy from spinning out of control.
But the spending spree of the wealthy and middle classes has proved a political headache, because it has sharpened the contrast between the haves and have-nots and heightened the perception that the ''beautiful people'' from the golden worlds of finance and fashion personify the new Spain.
Viewing the Government increasingly as a class enemy, Spain's two main union groups, the Communist-led Workers' Commissions and the General Workers' Union, organized a one-day general strike last December that paralyzed Spain for the first time since the 1930's. In May, the General Workers' Union ended its century-old alliance with the Socialist party.
Mr. Gonzalez's economic policy has also caused problems among longtime Socialists. ''The party has lost its social sensitivity,'' said Francisco Bustelo, who recently resigned from the party. ''It has forgotten fundamental values of the left, which will be difficult to recover now. Felipe has a major responsibility for this, because rarely in a democratic country has a leader had such power.''
Pablo Castellano, a Socialist lawyer who has also left the party, said he was less worried by the party's ideological revisions than by the authoritarian methods of what he calls Felipismo. ''The party's crisis stems from its loss of internal democracy,'' he said. ''The lines between party, state, government and leader have blurred.''
Many dissident Socialists have now joined the United Left coalition headed by the Communist leader, Julio Anguita, who has made some progress in ending leftist infighting. Backed by the two labor groups, they hope to convince workers that the Government has turned its back on Spain's poor.
 
Conservatives Focus On Taxes and Services
 The conservative opposition, on the other hand, is a prisoner of the Government's economic success. In private, many top businessmen say they hope to see Mr. Gonzalez re-elected with a majority, since they believe that maintenance of the current policy is essential if Spain is to be ready for the European challenge of 1992.
As a result, unable to offer a different economic model, the two opposition conservative parties - the Popular Party headed by Jose Maria Aznar and the Democratic and Social Center led by former Prime Minister Adolfo Suarez - have been reduced to trying to exploit middle-class irritation over taxes and public services.
But while the Socialist platform is peppered with promises that jobs will be created and taxes eventually eased, Mr. Gonzalez is essentially offering more of the same, convinced that only continued rapid growth can ease the problems that have disillusioned poor and middle-class Spaniards.
Recent events in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union have even given him a new weapon for dealing with leftist critics. Referring to ''the disaster of incredible magnitude'' affecting the Communist bloc economies, he noted with scarcely disguised pride, ''In our conversations, the Hungarians tell us, 'We want to do as you have done.' ''

GRAPHIC: Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez, who gets both the credit and the blame for Spain's metamorphosis. (Woodfin Camp/Kim Newton) (pg. 1); after seven years of Socialist government, Spain has been transformed into a collage of dazzling images in a country long known for its dour and isolated way of life. The view is of the Paseo de Prado in Madrid. (Woodfin Camp/Kim Newton); graph of per capita income of Spain, 1980-1988; graph of annual unemployment rate for Spain, 1980-1988; pie charts of percentage of men and women in Spain's work force, 1980 and 1988 (Sources: National Statistics Institute of Spain, Spanish Embassy) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SPAIN (99%); EUROPE (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SPAIN

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN; GONZALEZ, FELIPE (PRIME MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



342 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/3-23

 
Spain's progress will be judged in coming elections. While economic growth has created wealth, unemployment remains high. Page 1

 
Gonzalez to offer advice to Bush on Latin America 18

 
South Africans marched against apartheid in more than a dozen cities and towns. It took on shades of a celebration for the expected release of Walter Sisulu and seven others. 3

 
A Czech leader was apparently taped in a closed Communist meeting, and the purported recording, said to be embarrassing, has been broadcast by Radio Free Europe. 20

 
Nicaraguan rebels were visited in their mountain camp in Honduras by an international team that urged them to accept a regional agreement calling for them to disband. 22

 
Contras said to sell their arms 22

 
Honduran accused in theft of U.S. aid 16

 
Lebanon's chief of Christian forces threatened retribution against Christian Lebanese negotiators to try to prevent them from making concessions to Muslim counterparts. 3

 
A Chinese report on Zhao Ziyang, the ousted Communist leader, attacks him for economic mismanagement. It is a new step in the campaign to blame him for China's problems. 11 
 
 
China says Taiwan is ''buying hearts'' abroad 10

 
U.S. eases Japanese trade stand 8

 
Cambodian rebels reported unable to seize state garrisons 9

 
Seoul renews bid for U.N. seat 15

 
The U.S. may make poison-gas arms after a treaty to phase out poison gas takes effect, officials said. The move supports the Pentagon's program to develop a new chemical bomb. 20

 
India's political opposition leader said he would oppose the use of computerized voting machines unless their design and programming can be checked by independent experts. 5

 
Paris parley seeks attention for Kurds 4

 
10,000 sheep, astray at sea, head for Europe 23

 
NATIONAL/
24-33

 
The Federal Reserve is prepared to provide money if a sudden demand develops as a result of the sharp plunge in the stock market Friday, an official of the central bank said. 1

 
The financial markets are bracing for what could be the first test of a temporary trading halt. Some officials and traders are concerned by the impact of such a halt. 32

 
New UAL bid expected to substitute securities for cash 32

 
Tokyo financiers doubt a local aftershock of Wall St. selloff 32

 
Ways to change the deficit law are being considered by lawmakers as Congress completes one of its most embarrassing budget failures. 1

 
News analysis: Presidential timidity has become an issue in Washington after the failed Panama coup. The question is whether President Bush is prudent or foolishly cautious. 1

 
Baseball memory is showcased by an exhibit at the Oakland Museum, ''Diamonds Are Forever: Artists and Writers on Baseball.'' 1

 
Abortion is a top issue in Virginia in the race for Governor. That has helped the race's Democrat, Lieut. Gov. L. Douglas Wilder. 24

 
29 House members reversed votes on easing abortion curbs 29

 
Clean air in the Grand Canyon is the issue pitting environmentalists and Federal officials against the Navajo Generating Station, which burns 24,000 tons of coal a day. 24

 
At odds for years, two Democrats compromise on clean air 30

 
The recent death of a Mexican boy dramatizes the chaos that has developed as more illegal aliens try to enter the U.S. through a narrow section of the California border. 30

 
Three drug traffickers flown to Miami from Bogota 24

 
Bush to seek death penalty for drug chiefs 25

 
Shuttle problem solved, NASA says 24

 
Poll assesses 28 cities 26

 
In book, Nancy Reagan calls Regan-Baker switch a mistake 28

 
Secretary Dole to name ''supermediator'' in coal strike 28

 
REGIONAL/34-44

 
A power plant that burns tires is the solution Sterling, Conn., has for its financial woes, as well as for litter in the Northeast. But its neighboring towns fear traffic and smoke. 1

 
David Dinkins's financial sources are business people in New York City and liberal and black Democrats outside the city. They replace unions and city black supporters. 40

 
Dinkins faces booing crowds in Bensonhurst 40

 
A key AIDS test is nearly unavailable in New York State, although it is readily available elsewhere. The test, which can show whether an AIDS virus infection is progressing, is limited by the state. 36

 
Doctors say hospital crisis grows as winter nears 37

 
Episcopal Bishop Richard Grein ceremonially pounded on the great bronze doors of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. The Episcopal Church in New York heard the sound of a new kind of leadership. 40

 
Justice Brennan joins ranks of Roosevelt award honorees 44

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONDURAS (92%); CHINA (92%); LEBANON (92%); INDIA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); JAPAN (70%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COUPS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); BASEBALL (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



343 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: HONDURAN ACCUSED IN THEFT OF U.S. AID

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras

 BODY:
Senior officers in the Honduran armed forces contend that their commander misappropriated millions of dollars in military aid sent by the United States.
The officers maintain that the general, Humberto Regalado Hernandez, treated donated military equipment as a personal gift and sold it to units under his command.
General Regalado deposited the money into a special bank account that he personally controlled, the officers assert.
A commander of one major unit said he was required to pay for fuel, batteries and tires given to Honduras by the United States under its military assistance program. Gasoline acquired under the program was generally sold for about 5 cents a gallon less than the market rate, he said, but units with severe budgetary problems were given much greater discounts, sometimes amounting to 50 percent. 
''We never got any invoices,'' the officer said. ''We just signed a paper, a requisition chit.''
 
Millions of Dollars Involved
The army then took the money owed from the unit's budget and deposited it in General Regalado's special account, the senior military officers say. It remains unclear exactly when the alleged misappropriation began, but the officers say the scheme has been in operation for several years and netted the general millions of dollars.
The officers' allegations have not been made public, but Honduras has asked the United States Defense Department to investigate, a spokesman for the Honduran Embassy in Washington and senior aides to the general said. [State Department officials said in September that they had not heard of the allegations against General Regalado. But the officials confirmed this month that Honduras had asked for an investigation of the charges. The Honduran request was apparently prompted by concern that Congress might cut American aid if there were unanswered questions about corruption in the program, an Administration official said.] The general could not be reached for comment on the allegations of corruption. An interview with General Regalado was repeatedly requested without success through a senior aide in Tegucigalpa, the Armed Forces Press Office and the Honduran Embassy in Washington. Several of the officials said the general would like to be interviewed but did not have the time. Other senior Honduran officers, who are close to the general, said the charges were nothing more than an attempt to smear the country and the general.
The Honduran Army officials making the charges, who asked not to be identified, said they based their allegations on information from trusted friends who had helped create false records for the scheme. The officials are part of a faction seeking to replace the general as the Honduran chief of staff and de facto ruler.
 
Seeks to Retain Command
Some of the officers used to be among the general's most committed supporters but say they became disenchanted after discovering overwhelming evidence that he took millions of dollars from the aid program and is now maneuvering to remain in office after the end of his three-year tour of duty.
Tension is also rising because Honduras' military appropriation, the lifeblood of the army and, many officers say, of the nation, is under debate in the United States Congress.
In the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, Honduras received $41.1 million in military aid from the United States and $74 million in economic aid. It was supposed to get $144 million in economic aid, but the United States withheld $70 million because Honduras did not carry out American recommendations to promote economic growth.
For the current fiscal year, the Bush Administration has proposed $61.25 million in military aid and $146 million in economic assistance. The stated purpose of the military aid is to help Honduras counter threats to its security from Nicaragua by helping Honduras obtain planes and naval patrol boats. A small amount of the money is to be used for training Honduran soldiers.
 
Apparent Snub by Quayle
Senior Honduran military officers opposed to General Regalado say they are deeply concerned that the United States will cut aid to Honduras. They noted that Vice President Dan Quayle did not meet with the general on a recent tour of Central America but did see his counterparts in Guatemala and El Salvador. Instead, the general was invited to a cocktail party.
''That gave us a temperature reading on what the U.S. was thinking,'' one senior Honduran military official said.
Reagan Administration officials said last year that they suspected General Regalado of providing protection to Colombian drug traffickers living in Honduras. The general has denied any involvement in drug smuggling. And Everett Briggs, the former United States Ambassador, defended him. Mr. Briggs said press reports of Honduran military involvement in narcotics trafficking were ''very imaginative and inventive'' and described the general as honest.
Honduran military investigators say that the general's half-brother, Rigoberto Regalado Lara, who recently was sentenced to 10 years in prison in the United States for trafficking in cocaine, told them his supplier was a close friend of the general's. They say that at least one other convicted drug trafficker, also in jail in the United States, told them of having discussed drug deals with the general.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONDURAS (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HONDURAS

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MISAPPROPRIATION (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ARMIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CORRUPTION (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EVIDENCE (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: GRUSON, LINDSEY; REGALADO HERNANDEZ, HUMBERTO (GEN)



344 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 32, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Eat and Be Wary, Governor

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: DALLAS, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clements was among several diners who witnessed an armed robbery at a restaurant Thursday night in which one man was shot. The lone robber apparently did not recognize Mr. Clements, who was seatedestors sell their shares, because he was confident that any drop would be temporary. 
 
'Some Shock Value'
''There is some shock value, of course, to what happened on Friday, and you could see the market pull back initially,'' said Jeff Bahrenburg, the chief stock market strategist for Merrill Lynch Japan Inc. ''But you just don't have the kind of conditions that preceded the crash two years ago. The market here had been pretty cautious before this.''
But the selloff and some explanations for it hit a sensitive nerve in Japan. A number of executives reacted indignantly to assertions by some American analysts that Japanese financial institutions contributed to the drop of 190.58 points, or 6.9 percent, in the Dow Jones industrial average by pulling back on financing American corporate buyouts.
Reflecting an increasingly popular view here, some executives said the sudden decline was further evidence that the American economy was being weakened by a short-sighted pursuit of buyouts and a

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (57%); MER (NYSE) (57%); 8675 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH JAPAN SECURITIES CO LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DALLAS (TEX)

SUBJECT: ROBBERIES AND THEFTS ROBBERY (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); 

PERSON: CLEMENTS, BILL (GOV)



345 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 32, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Stock Traders Expect a Revised UAL Bid With Less Cash

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Stock traders said yesterday that they expected a revised buyout bid for the UAL Corporation, parent of United Airlines, to be assembled quickly. But they predicted that the buyout group, which includes the company's pilots union and management, might reduce the value of the bid by substituting securities for part of the cash.
On Friday, the buyout group said large banks had balked at financing its $6.75 billion cash takeover bid. The group's announcement that it would revise its buyout proposal was followed by a sharp drop in airline stocks and then by the stock market as a whole, with the Dow Jones industrial average dropping 190.58 points, or 6.9 percent. 
Yesterday, banking executives and large stockholders of UAL said the banks had found the fees and interest rates on the deal inadequate.
 
Japanese Banks Balked
Four Japanese banks were the first on Friday to indicate they would not lend as much money as had been sought by Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank, the banks leading the effort to provide the financing, said an American banking executive who asked not to be identified. A series of American banks followed suit, forcing the lead banks to tell the buyout group, which included British Airways, that they had not been able to raise the money.
The president of one arbitrage firm, who requested anonymity, said Citibank and Chase Manhattan came up $2 billion short in raising money for the deal. Spokesmen for Citibank and Chase Manhattan declined to comment.
The terms in the UAL deal reportedly sought initial fees totaling about $36 million and an interest rate of one percentage point above the prime lending rate, which is currently 10.5 percent. These were less generous to the banks than those offered for other leveraged buyouts.
 
New Offer Expected Tomorrow
For example, the $3.45 billion in loans that paid for the acquisition of Northwest Airlines carried an interest rate of 1.5 points above the prime rate, said Thomas A. Parisi, a spokesman for the Bankers Trust Company, which organized the lending.
Financing for that deal was significantly oversubscribed, with banks offering to lend $7 billion, he said.
In interviews yesterday and Friday night, five arbitragers said they expected a revised version of the $300-a-share deal to be announced, possibly tomorrow morning. All five hold large blocks of UAL stock and have a strong interest in the deal's revival.
 
Buyers, but No Sellers
They said the previous bid might be replaced with a bid consisting of $260 to $275 a share in cash and some securities, perhaps an issue of preferred stock, to give the deal a value on paper of $300 a share. The securities, however, are unlikely to be worth as much as the cash they replace. Participants in the transaction could not be reached for comment yesterday.
There were indications yesterday of widespread uncertainty concerning the stock's value.
Jefferies & Company, which specializes in after-hours trading, brought seven people into its London office yesterday to trade airline stocks and other issues, but found little demand.
The firm had a potential buyer but no sellers for UAL stock at $230 a share, the same level as off-market trading on Friday evening and down from Thursday's close of $285.25 on the New York Stock Exchange, said Frank Palamara, the manager of the London office. Trading in UAL stock was halted Friday at $279.75 before it could react to the buyout group's announcement.
A block of stock in the AMR Corporation, which has received a $120-a-share takeover proposal from the New York developer Donald J. Trump, changed hands for $81 a share yesterday, down from $98.625 when trading was suspended yesterday, Mr. Palamara said. AMR owns American Airlines. Arbritragers said the financing difficulties encountered at UAL made it less likely that Mr. Trump could finance the purchase of AMR or that the Californa billionaire Marvin Davis could revive his $300-a-share bid for UAL, which has been rejected by the company's board.
 
RESISTANCE AT JAPANESE BANKS
 TOKYO, Oct. 14 (Special to The New York Times) - The group attempting to buy the UAL Corporation had sought to borrow about $3 billion in Tokyo, but it ran into resistance from large Japanese banks, which were worried about the riskiness of the deal, investment bankers close to the transaction said today.
But Japanese officials insisted that their hesitation was shared by many other bankers. ''If the deal was so good, where were the American banks?'' one senior Japanese banker asked.
Some bankers also said they were concerned by the number of big loans they had already made to finance buyouts. ''We are a little fed up with these kinds of deals,'' said Yoh Kurosawa, deputy president of the Industrial Bank of Japan. ''We just don't want to build up too heavy an exposure.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (60%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AIRLINES (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); PREFERRED STOCK (79%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH



346 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 36, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: New York Limits a Key AIDS Test

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
To the dismay of many New York doctors and advocates for people with AIDS, a key laboratory test that can show whether an AIDS virus infection is progressing is all but unavailable in the New York State, although it is readily available elsewhere.
The test, the p24 antigen test, is the only one in widespread use that directly measures blood levels of an AIDS virus protein. When the level of antigen, a protein that is part of the AIDS virus, is on the rise, it usually means that a person's AIDS infection is picking up speed.
The test has become increasingly important with the introduction or wider use of treatments that are initiated when the virus starts to overcome the patient's immune system. Experts said the test can be necessary for decisions about treatment. 
The New York State Health Department says the test is available through its own laboratory, although it has not licensed commercial laboratories to provide the test because it wants to assure patient confidentiality and quality control. The department also regulates tests for antibodies to HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. But more laboratories offer that test and doctors say it is widely available in New York.
 
State Laboratory Performs Test
The state's Wadsworth Center for Laboratories and Research in Albany will do the p24 antigen test on request, but doctors say the laboratory is inadequate to serve all the people in New York infected with the AIDS virus who might need the antigen test. About a quarter of the nation's 105,000 AIDS casetate.
Dr. Roy W. Stevens, who directs the laboratory for diagnostic immunology at the New York State Health Department in Albany, said the state is thinking of allowing commercial laboratories to do the test, but he could not say when a decision would be reached. ''We are getting the arguments together for the Health Commissioner now,'' Dr. Stevens said.
Clinical data have clearly shown that people infected with the AIDS virus do better if they are treated before they are ill with AIDS. But it can be difficult to know when to institute treatment, which can have serious side effects.
The p24 antigen test, by providing signs that the AIDS virus is growing rapidly, can help with this decision. The test can also indicate when patients are no longer responding fully to AZT, or azidothymidine, the only drug approved for the treatment of AIDS. This has become more important with the introduction of DDI, an experimental drug being tested in people who do not respond to AZT.
 
'Ought to Be Available'
Jay Lipner, the cooperating lawyer for Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, an advocacy group for homosexuals and people with AIDS, said the organization ''believes the test ought to be available.''
''Researchers think the test is important,'' he said. ''Clinicians think the test is of value. New Yorkers ought to have the right to have the same imformation available as people in other states. The New York State Health Department simply has to come to grips with this.''
Dr. Jeffrey Laurence, an AIDS researcher at the Cornell University Medical Center in New York, said, ''I think people are right to be upset'' that the p24 test is virtually unavailable in New York. He said the p24 antigen test is widely used in clinical trials of prospective AIDS treatments and in some cases patients cannot participate unless their antigen levels have risen.
 
'It Is Important to Have'
Dr. Daniel William, a New York doctor with many AIDS patients, said the unavailablity of the p24 antigen test is a real hindrance to good patient care. The test ''is an accepted test,'' he said, ''and when you are making life and death decisons, it is important to have it available.''
''Everyone feels the way I do,'' Dr. William said. ''This is one of the few things that everyone agrees on.''
Officials at Abbott Laboratories in Abbott Park, Ill., which makes the Government-approved antigen tests, said they do not know of any state other than New York that restricts room doctors who warn that with the onset of colder weather, the area's emergency rooms will soon suffer the same dangerously crowded conditions seen last winter.
While no citywide data is available to confirm that the situation this year is comparable or worse than last winter's emergency-room crisis, the experts say that present congestion bodes poorly on the eve of the winter season, when hospital occupancy and emergency room usage traditionally rise. Overcrowding last winter forced many hospitals to provide care in hallways and kept patients waiting several days in emergency rooms before being admitted for inpatient care.
Public-health experts have blamed overcrowding on the emergence of crack use and AIDS as major public-health problems and on rising numbers of poor uninsured patients who do not have access to other health care.
Speaking at a national conference of emergency room physicians at La Guardia Airport on Friday, doctors called for stricter state enforcement of rules that limit the amount of time patients awaiting hospital admission can be held in emergency rooms. They also asked for increased reimbursement to reflect the higher costs of providing emergency care.
''There has been little enforcement of the rules - it has been voluntary compliance,'' said Dr. Mark C. Henry, president-elect of the New York chapter of the American College of Emergency Physicians, referring to state emergency-room regulations that were introduced this year. The rules require emergency rooms to either treat and release patients or admit them for inpatient care within eight hours.
''We need to face up to the fact that this problem is widespread, and that it is caused by economics,'' Dr. Henry said.
Referring to a state plan to introduce universal health insurance, Dr. Henry said, ''if everyone had guaranteed coverage that would be a major step in solving the problem.''
 
'The Worst Delays'
According to one participant at the conference, Dr. Arthur Kellermann, ding problem in New York City and the remedies suggested by emergency room doctors.
 
Five Hospitals Cited
A spokeswoman for the State Department of Health, disputing the assertion that there had been little enforcement of the emergency-room regulations, said that five hospitals in New York City had been cited for violation of the eight-hour stay rule since its introduction.
''We have some hospitals with plenty of open beds and other hospitals that look like they are in a crunch - particularly the municipal hospitals,'' said the spokeswoman, Frances Tarleton.
She said that as of noon Friday, the Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Care Center in the Bronx, a large municipal hospital, had only one available medical-surgical bed, and 23 patients awaiting admission in its emergency room. Meanwhile, another Bronx hospital, North Central Bronx Hospital, had 12 open beds.
Reacting critically to the call for greater enforcement of emergency room rules, Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association said: ''The solution to the emergency room backups, a problem that comes and goes, has nothing to do with the eight-hour limitation and everything to do with an inadequate bed supply. We have to immediately add the 500 beds the Department of Health talked about this summer and start doing other things to address the AIDS epidemic.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); TESTS AND TESTING; LICENSES AIDS & HIV (98%); VIRUSES (93%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PATIENT PRIVACY (78%); VACCINES (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); IMMUNOLOGY (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (70%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (69%); QUALITY CONTROL (67%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA



347 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 40, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Picture of Temptations Painted in Garcia Trial

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

 BODY:
One of the prosecution's last witnesses at the bribery trial of Representative Robert Garcia and his wife, Jane Lee, was a Harvard Law School student who worked a few years ago as an intern in the Congressman's South Bronx office.
Mrs. Garcia's lawyer, Ronald P. Fischetti, asked the young man, Cesare Bacchini, whether it was true that he had not made much money working in the Congressman's office. ''No one does in government,'' Mr. Bacchini said. Then he added, with a glance at his old boss, ''supposedly.'' 
In the fifth-floor courtroom in Manhattan Federal Court, Mr. Bacchini's comment sounded more like a question than an accusation. But it capsulized the theme of the four-week trial: whether Mr. Garcia came to care more about money than about the people in the poverty-stricken district that sent him to Washington.
The chief prosecutor, Edward J. M. Little, told the jurors that the Congressman grew greedy. The chief defense lawyer, Robert G. Morvillo, told them that Mr. Garcia was a man who put his constituents first.
 
Temptations of Public Servants
But whatever version is accepted by the jurors, who begin their second day of deliberations tomorrow, the trial presented a clear picture of the pressures and temptations that sometimes enter the lives of public servants.
In his closing statement last week, Mr. Morvillo told the jurors that Congressman Garcia and his wife ''are human beings. They're entitled to have some fun.''
But both sides agreed that the price tag of the couple's life style was often far higher than anything they could afford on their Government salaries. Mrs. Garcia was her husband's administrative assistant until 1984. Together, the Government paid them $120,000 a year.
There were few incentives for the Garcias to rein in their spending. No matter how over-extended Mr. Garcia was, lawyers on both sides pointed out, his banks seemed only too willing to allow overdrawn accounts for this particular customer, who happened to be a member of the House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee.
 
Loans to Repay Overdrafts
After prosecutors proved that the Garcias ran up bank overdrafts sometimes totaling more than $10,000, defense lawyers quickly said the couple had overdrawn their accounts for years.
In 1984, the couple bought a 65-acre horse farm in upstate New York complete with a swimming pool and a hot tub. They had no trouble obtaining a Veterans Administration-approved mortgage to cover 100 percent of the purchase price. That added a $1,900-a-month payment to their budget.
To repay an overdraft at one bank, the evidence showed, the couple got a $20,000 loan from another bank.
It sometimes seemed during the trial that the trappings of wealth virtually fell into the path of the couple. When they needed spending money for an all-expenses-paid Anti-Defamation League tour to Israel and Spain, Mr. Garcia's lawyer conceded, the Congressman arranged a $20,000 interest-free loan ''between friends.'' The friend was Mario Moreno, the vice chairman of the Wedtech Corporation, the military contractor that was in Mr. Garcia's district.
 
Dinner at Lello's
Mr. Moreno was the Garcias' chief accuser at the trial. When the Garcias took a day's pleasure trip to the Virgin Islands in 1985, they happened upon the founder of Wedtech, John Mariotta. Defense lawyers did not contest evidence that Mrs. Garcia ended the day with a $1,900 diamond and emerald necklace that was charged to Mr. Mariotta's American Express account.
The defense lawyers conceded that the Garcias' finances were often tangled. But they bitterly fought what prosecutors said the Congressman and his wife did about the problem.
The Garcias invited Mr. Moreno to dinner at Lello's, an Italian restaurant on Manhattan's East Side. There, on May 17, 1984, Mr. Moreno testified, the couple asked for payoffs from Wedtech and devised a scheme to make them appear legitimate.
The Garcias' futures depend, to a large extent, on whether jurors believe what Mr. Moreno said happened at Lello's. The defense lawyers ridiculed the tale as the creation of a witness who would say anythed to hear again when they began deliberating Friday.
It is unlikely that anyone who was not at Lello's will ever know with certainty who said what over the dinner table. But there were other incidents witnesses described that provide a glimpse of the way politicians and those around them sometimes operate. Mr. Bacchini, the student intern, played a role in one of the episodes.
Defense lawyers argued from the beginning of the case that Mrs. Garcia had her own consulting business, and that prosecutors mistakenly labeled legitimate consulting payments to her as illegal payoffs. They said she received the payments for work she did for a lawyer in Puerto Rico who hired her for her expertise.
Under an agreement with that lawyer, the jury was told, Mrs. Garcia provided a report on something known as the Caribbean Basin Initiative, a Federal economic development plan. The jury was told the lawyer paid her $50,000 under the agreement.
Mr. Bacchini testified that Mrs. Garcia came to him one day while he was at work in Congressman Garcia's office in the South Bronx and asked him to write the report. He did it for her as a favor, he said. It was not important to get paid for it, he said.
The report that Mrs. Garcia sent to the lawyer was introduced into evidence at the trial. On its cover, it said ''by Jane Lee Garcia.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WEDTECH CORP (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LAWYERS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BRIBERY (78%); BUDGETS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); VETERANS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); 



348 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 60, Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Social Events

BYLINE: By ROBERT E. TOMASSON

 BODY:

North Star Anniversary
Oct. 16 - The North Star Fund, which has been helping social and economic causes in New York for 10 years, will hold an anniversary benefit at the Dish of Salt restaurant, 133 West 47th Street. The cocktail party from 6:30 to 9:30 P.M. will honor Bishop Paul Moore Jr. of the Episcopal Diocese of New York, who is retiring. Tickets, $75, at the door or call 212-460-5511.
 
Films From Asia
Oct. 17 - The Asia Society's First International Festival of Asian Film, to be held Oct. 18-28, will be inaugurated with a black-tie dinner. The evening starts with cocktails at 7 P.M. at the society, 725 Park Avenue at 70th Street. Tickets, $500; 212-431-6850. 
 
Dance Union
Oct. 17 - Alwin Nikolais and Murray Louis have merged their dance companies into a new 15-member troupe called Nikolais & Louis Dance. The new company's first season opens with a 7 P.M. performance at the Joyce Theater, Eighth Avenue at 19th Street, followed by supper and dancing at the Billiard Club, 220 West 19th Street. Tickets, $100 (for the performance alone, $40); 212-310-0527.
 
From New York to Paris
Oct. 17 - The American Hospital of Paris, opened in 1910 under a special arrangement between the United States and French Governments, continues to serve an important medical role for Americans and other foreigners in France. To benefit the hospital, French designers are decorating a show house at 123 East 80th Street. A preview will be held from 6 P.M. to 8 P.M., after which guests will go to the Pierre for cocktails at 7:30, dinner and dancing. Black tie. Tickets, $500; 212-838-0157.
 
Briefly Noted:
Oct. 17 - Mark DeGarmo and Dancers will celebrate their Paris debut with a benefit party at the National Arts Club, 15 Gramercy Park South, from 6 to 8 P.M. Tickets, $50; 212-353-1351.
Oct. 18 - A black-tie dinner and dance celebrating Japanese culture, a benefit for the World Music Institute, will be held at the Plaza starting with cocktails at 7 P.M. Tickets, $300; 212-206-1050. For dancing alone, $75 for those over 25 years old, $30 for those under.
Oct. 18 - Children of Bellevue, which has been providing special care for young patients at Bellevue Hospital Center for 41 years, will hold its annual fund-raising dinner and dance at the Waldorf-Astoria. Black tie. Cocktails at 7:30 P.M. Tickets, $250; 212-561-5221.
Oct. 18 - The inaugural benefit of the American Friends of the Georgian Group, a London preservation group, will be a cocktail reception and exhibition of Georgian items from 6:30 to 9 P.M. at Christie's. Tickets, $75, at the door or call 212-546-1007.
Oct. 18 - ''Celebrate Santa Fe,'' the opening-night preview and reception of the Fall Antiques Show at Pier 92, the Hudson River and 55th Street, will be held from 6 to 9:30 P.M. It will benefit the Museum of American Folk Art. Tickets, $150; 212-944-5700.
Oct. 18 - The Animal Adoption League will benefit from a dinner and dance at the Tavern on the Green starting at 7 P.M. Tickets, $100; 212-534-4586.
Oct. 18-19 - Two previews of a designer showcase to benefit Homes for the Homeless will be held from 6 to 9 P.M. both days at the Great American Salvage Company, a dealer in architectural artifacts at 34 Cooper Square, Third Avenue at Sixth Street. Tickets for Oct. 18, $250; for Oct. 19, $100. Call 212-529-5252.
Oct. 19 - A comedy act, a dance premiere, a 30-voice rock-gospel group, beer and snacks will mark a benefit for the Manhattan Class Company, a theater group, starting at 8 P.M. at the Space, 114 West 17th Street. Tickets, $25; 212-239-9033.
 
Live, From the Pierre
Oct. 19 - The Young Adult Institute, which runs 50 programs in the New York area for the mentally retarded and developmentally disabled, is planning a display of Broadway's musical talents at a benefit at the Pierre. Performing their own works will be Sammy Cahn, Cy Coleman, Betty Comden and Adolph Green, John Kander and Fred Ebb, Charles Strouse and Jule Styne. Michael Feinstein will play the music of Cole Porter and George Gershwin. The evening starts with cocktails at 6:30 P.M. Tickets, $300; 212-563-7474.
 
April in October
Oct. 20 - The annual April in Paris Ball has withstood its misnomer for 38 years. Sponsored by the American French Foundation Charities, the ball benefits 20 medical, charitable and cultural groups in this country and in France. The black- or white-tie evening at the Waldorf-Astoria starts with cocktails at 8 P.M., followed by dinner, dancing and games of chance (winners get items from boutiques at the ball). Tickets, $450 ($225 for those 35 and under); 212-486-8833.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (86%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (86%); 

COMPANY: THE ASIA SOCIETY (57%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DANCE (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); FESTIVALS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); DANCERS (73%); RELIGION (71%); THEATER (56%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (50%); 



349 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1, Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2992 words

HEADLINE: Sculpture for Troubled Places

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRENSON

 BODY:
A strange symbol of hope has been flowering in some of New York City's most troubled neighborhoods. Sculpture.
Over the last five years, dozens of works have popped up and been plopped down in decaying and embattled sections of the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens as a result of public and private programs.
They have sprouted in gardens hemmed in by tenements in the South Bronx and central Brooklyn. They have shot up on weed-filled plots alongside the East and Bronx rivers. They rise like vines above the barbed wire that has helped make the industrial cementscape of Hunts Point look like a combat zone. 
They are not made with SoHo and Madison Avenue in mind. The sculptures may be wood fences or thrones or planks suggesting emblems of rural life like porches or cabins. They may be a steel gate that seems to grow, or a huge steel Atlas who seems capable of lifting up the tenement behind him. They may be made of industrial materials and yet, like Bob Rivera's ''Garden Spirit'' in the South Bronx, suggest something almost Edenic.
They never fully fit. ''There were thousands of questions,'' said Geneva McFadden, describing the responses of her neighbors to Gail Rothschild's wooden ''throne sculpture'' on Franklin Avenue near East 168th Street in the Morrisania section of the South Bronx. ''What is it? Is it finished? Are you supposed to climb on it or not?''
If the sculptures are accepted, it may still be with a sense of detachment or distance. ''I just wanted to say how nice these are; they are a diversion for our workday,'' volunteered a truck driver working at the Food Center at Hunts Point in the South Bronx, who went out of his way to communicate his feelings about a sculpture by Christy Rupp of four little bears climbing over an assemblage of file cabinets, and another work, by Terry Lee Dill, in which a large black ball seems ready to break the grip of the yellow and black steel beams that contain it.
While sculpture for these neighborhoods may be invested with extraordinary hope, its success is almost always limited. If the sculpture is too removed from the neighborhood, it moves nobody. If it is too integrated, it loses its capacity to sustain the levels of meaning that give art something more than provincial appeal. If it seems part inside, part outside a neighborhood, it can seem edgy, homeless, as if it had stumbled into the wrong script.
Everyone involved knows that the challenge is daunting. ''This is an area of social anomie,'' said Sigmund R. Balka, the general counsel for Krasdale Foods, the person who set in motion the brand-new Food Center Sculpture Park at Hunts Point. ''People come here and they dump things in the middle of the night. It is difficult to relate sculpture to these locations. The area fights.''
We are not talking about great art here. There may not be a single work commissioned for these neighborhoods that is entirely convincing. But it is apparent that sculpture can make some contribution. After years in which a number of artists have been trying to reach into neighborhoods outside the institutionalized art world, some members of those neighborhoods have begun to reach back.
There are now clearly very few people who are not aware of the social status and economic value of art. People far from the glamour and glitz of Manhattan may know nothing about sculpture; they may not even like it. But they now assume it has something to do with power. And in a place like the Hunts Point Food Center, they believe it can make a social and economic difference.
To this point, however, money has been limited. There is nothing even approaching the scale and ambition of Richard Serra's ''Tilted Arc,'' that roar of hectoring and sheltering steel that the Government removed from Federal Plaza in downtown Manhattan earlier this year after bitter dispute.
Some of the sculptures are so slight, so reticent, so wary of hurting anyone's feelings that they almost seem to apologize for existing. Many are so unassuming that they are hardly recognizable as sculpture, even to people who pass them every day. There are few works that try to speak to both the vulnerability and the aggression within a neighborhood.
When they are effective, the sculptures speak so sensitively to an essential aspect of a place that they cannot be imagined anywhere else. They may put an exclamation point on a site, or give it a particular signature. They may become a point around which people gather. ''It may have drawn us closer together,'' said Catherine Jones, a neighborhood resident, of Gail Rothschild's sculpture, which she helps maintain.
Nobody is saying that sculpture can change neighborhoods, although some discussions drip with platitudes about bringing people together, fostering community pride and carrying the torch of art into unfamiliar territory. It may not be the same as missionaries bringing Christianity to heathens, but sometimes the rhetoric does not sound that different. Whether these sculptures succeed or fail, their proliferation has something profound to say about the nature of art - or at least about what people now expect and need from art. For many people who know little or nothing about the sophisticated art world, sculpture has a magical, almost talismanic power.
It can in some sense offer protection to them, they believe, although the sculptures are in constant danger of vandalism. Deborah Masters's cement figures in Prospect Park were destroyed by a sledgehammer by what the police believe to be a group of young people celebrating a high school graduation.
Despite this, sculpture can, they some believe, be a symbol of - and perhaps even be able to impose - civility and culture. In these precarious New York neighborhoods, far from institutions like the Whitney Museum of American Art, where the acceptance of contemporary art depends very much on an esthetic of shock, shock is a fact of daily life and many people want art that can heal.
Gail Rothschild's sculpture is intended as a curative charm. Rothschild, 30 years old, has been artist-in-residence at the Henry Street Settlement for the last two years. Her work, called ''Gaia Earthmother,'' is part of the Artists in the Garden project of Operation Greenthumb, a program of New York City's General Services Administration, which helps communities throughout the city cultivate gardens in abandoned lots previously abloom with dead cars, dead refrigerators and rats.
The sculpture is a wooden throne with steps that rises out of the earth like an Easter Island head. Around the back, like a ring of hair, are 24 medicinal herbs provided by the artist that the 15 caretakers of the garden, 13 of them women, can pick as they wish. Across the street is a boarded-up house. Parked practically in front of the garden on a recent morning was an almost new car, stripped. The one bench in the large garden, where the caretakers sit and talk, is a few feet from the work.
''I moved here in 1984,'' said Geneva McFadden, who is 76 years old and who helped build the garden and the head-throne. ''This was full of weeds. I would come pull weeds so at least I could have a clear space. One man said, 'Why not go for a garden?' It was accepted in 1986. Now I look out and I see the sculpture. It looks like a presence. A human presence.''
For Catherine Jones, another of the caretakers, the garden is an ''oasis in the desert, I'm telling you,'' and the sculpture its guardian. ''At least they haven't come in here and tried to rip it, and the nature of the young people around here is to rip it apart,'' she said.
 
A Proliferation Of Sponsors
 The sculptures in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens are the results of several ambitious projects. One is the Food Center Sculpture Park at Hunts Point, one of the neighborhoods that has given the South Bronx its bad name, an area where drugs sometimes seem more available than food and prostitutes have sold themselves to truck drivers by standing naked in the street.
Because of the social and visual challenges of the site, the economic and political power behind the program, and the conflicting interests sculpture is intended to serve here, this ''sculpture park'' is one of the most intriguing developments in the history of public sculpture in New York City. The first show, through next July, includes 12 sculptures by 10 artists. Ten of the works have been previously exhibited or were made for other sites. With one exception, artists were paid $1,200 a work.
Artists in the Garden, which began in 1984, helps match artists with communities. ''The gardens we put sculpture in are gardens we feel strongly about preserving,'' said Jane Weissman, the director of Operation Greenthumb. ''Sculpture makes the garden more valuable, coalesces the community group, brings more attention to the garden.''
Of the roughly 460 gardens financed by Operation Greenthumb, 16 now have sculptures and eight have murals. Each sculptor was paid $2,000; materials and expenses were covered by the program.
The Socrates Sculpture Park, which opened in Long Island City in 1985, has provided many sculptors with a place to construct and exhibit work in a raw, weedy, four-acre field by the East River, with Manhattan's waves of rising and falling stone in the distance. The sculpture program at Hunts Point was partly inspired by this park's example.
The sculptures also exist because of the art program of the boathouse in Prospect Park in Brooklyn - a park bordered on one side by the rich and on another by the poor - which organized modest sculpture shows in the summers of 1988 and 1989.
They exist as well because of New York City's Percent for Art Program, which began in 1983 and requires that 1 percent of the cost of each new city building - school, firehouse, police station and the like - be set aside for art. Representatives of the community are involved in selecting artists, and they maintain some advisory function throughout the conception and realization of the work.
This program will be an important measure of the success and failure of art around the city. But not yet. According to Jennifer MacGregor Cutting, the director of the program and a member of the task force that brought the Food Center Sculpture Park into being, 6 works -4 of them sculptures - have been completed, and 37 others are under way. About 15 of the works have been commissioned for troubled neighborhoods.
 
Risks of Vandalism In the Age of Crack
 The spread of sculpture throughout New York City coincides with the spread of crack, which may have created a greater openness in these neighborhoods to gestures that could generate some show of solidarity and concern - like sculpture.
Arthur Froman, the director of the Hunts Point Cooperative Meat Market, one of the businesses participating in the Food Center Sculpture Park, has spoken about keeping the loading dock free of crack and wanting sculpture to help create a better working environment.
If crack's destruction of neighborhoods is one of many factors that has inspired people inside and outside these neighborhoods to consider the possibility of sculpture, the presence of crack can also make the installation and maintenance of sculpture dangerous. Enrico Martignoni, the project director of the Socrates Sculpture Park, has seen his share of crime. ''We're in the middle of the crack wars like everyone else,'' he says.
 
'Big Tree' And 'Dragon Tree'
 One artist who has had success making sculpture for sites in troubled neighborhoods is Bob Rivera. He is 46 years old and was raised in upper Manhattan. Like many of the artists commissioned by these programs, he has no gallery affiliation. He has realized commissions for both Artists in the Gardens and Hunts Point.
''Garden Spirit,'' his sculpture at Teller Avenue and East 169th Street in the South Bronx, crowns a garden tended by Project Prep, an alternative junior high school, whose students affectionately call the work ''big tree.'' It is steel and aluminum, with a three-pole trunk and branches suggesting tools and bloom. Both students and teachers like to nestle in the triangular space between the poles.
The sculpture at Hunts Point is called ''Dragon Tree of Maintenance.'' It is a 30-foot-long work, mostly wood, breathing its particular fire just inside the barbed wire at one corner of the New York City Terminal Market at Hunts Point. The dragon's breath, made of tools for plowing, planting and purification, is visible above the barbed wire, advertising the presence of sculpture within the compound to passing cars and trucks. The dragon is a mythical Oriental beast that may have been chosen because 80 percent of the greengrocers using the Terminal Market are Korean.
This sculpture, too, is playful, with a message about work and responsibility, and it speaks to the site. But while it is not out of place, neither is it at home in this sprawling cement zone, in front of its fence-cage. And its exact audience is unclear. Both sculptures will make friends for sculpture, but their capacity to respond to the tensions within their neighborhoods and touch communities outside is limited.
 
At Hunts Point, Sculpture as Logo
 When sculptures are unsuccessful, they may be little more than logos. A number of the works at the Food Center Sculpture Park are abstract and architectural. Because of their geometry, Jeffrey Brosk's ''Prairie Dance'' and Peter Dudek's ''Snug Harbor,'' neither of which was made for its site, in front of the National Foods headquarters, have the capacity to play off the stark verticals and horizontals of the buildings and roads. But these works function very much like works of art in a board room - not so much objects to be taken seriously as adornments that allow those in their presence to pat each other on the back about how civilized they are.
Many of the problems of sculpture in the inner city are raised by this particular project. The sculptures are spread over the Hunts Point Food Distribution Center, at the edge of the Hunts Point peninsula, attached to the flat industrial neighborhood around it but very much a complex unto itself - 329 acres, employing almost 12,000 people and generating more than $7 billion in annual sales. The Food Center includes the headquarters of six wholesale markets, of which five are participating in the sculpture program.
As a sculpture site, it is exciting. Although it is the largest food market complex in the United States, everything in it is on a human scale. It is near the mouth of the Bronx River; it has barbed wire and tall grass and miles of railroad tracks. There are blank walls in all shapes and sizes and numerous signs. Between the big trucks rolling across the stone and the sprawl of unkept fields, there is a feeling of some of the bleakest aspects of city and country colliding.
Judging by the first show, the sculpture program has too many conflicting aims and too little interest in sculpture itself. Sculpture is seen as a way of making the food center more human. ''It is always a struggle to keep the sense of civility and respectability apparent to people who work here, in light of other environmental features of the area,'' said Jonathan Bernstein, vice president and treasurer of National Foods, ''not the least of which is the marine transfer station right next to us, which is where all the garbage trucks from the Bronx dump their garbage.''
The sculpture program has also been partly conceived to change the perception of Hunts Point, both inside and beyond the Bronx. The businessmen and city officials involved with Hunts Point are clear about what they want from sculpture.
''Sculptures are part of the upgrading of this area,'' said Arthur Froman of the Hunts Point Cooperative Market.
''We are trying to change the South Bronx around,'' said Bruce Piel, general manager of the Terminal Market at Hunts Point. ''We have cleaned up, but we need to get the word out.''
When sculpture has so much to do with image, it should not be surprising that it is experienced primarily as symbol. ''Some of it I admit I don't understand, but it's good for the Bronx,'' said Anthony M. Riccio Jr., the commissioner of the New York City Department of Ports and Trade, the food center's landlord.
No one at Hunts Point is pretending that the first show is a knockout. ''It's a modest start,'' said Sigmund Balka, who in 1986 opened the Krasdale Foods Art Gallery in the company headquarters.
What the center does with the next show - there is talk of relocating the existing works, bringing in more works that are part of the city's outdoor sculpture history, and commissioning half a dozen site-specific works - and how it uses the $100,000 set aside for the food center by the Percent for Art program, will provide some answers.
 
For Most Efforts, A Precarious Future
 Except for the Percent for Art program, the future of all the sculpture programs that have brought art into troubled neighborhoods is precarious.
Money is a problem. Jane Weissman, the director of Operation Greenthumb, has to raise money for Artists in the Gardens, and ''fund raising,'' she says, ''is terrible.''
The future of the Socrates Sculpture Park is in doubt. Its five-year lease runs out in 1990. The park will ask for a renewal from the Department of Ports and Trade, but Mr. Martignoni believes that the city has plans to build luxury and moderate-income housing on the site. At the Boathouse in Prospect Park, the destruction of one work by vandals and the near collapse of another suggest that this program has a way to go before its possibilities are clear.
Whatever happens, something important is being worked out. Artists and communities outside the art world are groping for some common ground, and there are signs that it is beginning to exist. Whatever happens, the struggle is helping to bring into the open what we think of sculpture, and of art itself.

GRAPHIC: Bob Rivera's ''Garden Spirit'' presides over a South Bronx garden as Samuel Smith, one of the young people who tend the site, pulls weeds-a work suggesting tools and bloom, affectionately known to students from the community as ''big tree'' (NYT/Fred R. Conrad) (pg. 1); Gail Rothschild's sculpture ''Gaia Earthmother'' is intended as a curative charm. ''It looks like a presence. A human presence,'' says Geneva McFadden, above, who helped build the work; Christy Rupp's four little bears climbing over an assemblage of filing cabinets at the Food Center

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (59%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING; ART; OPERATION GREENTHUMB; GREENTHUMB, OPERATION SCULPTURE (90%); GARDENING (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: BRENSON, MICHAEL



350 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1, Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2007 words

HEADLINE: TV VIEW;
TIMID PROGRAMMING, TEPID TELEVISION

BYLINE: By JOHN J. O'CONNOR

 BODY:
If television reflects reality, however hazily, we the people would seem to be mired in growing confusion. While news and ''reality'' shows adopt questionable dramatization devices, entertainment formats drift ever further into inane diversions. Meanwhile, daytime shows like ''Geraldo'' are insisting that the land is being overrun by child molesters and Satanists. And, for the most part, the new season of weekly prime-time series only adds to the blur.
There are indeed continuing pressures on ABC, NBC, CBS and the still evolving Fox Broadcasting. All are under relatively new corporate ownerships that have initiated personnel cutbacks and tighter budgets. The inevitable result is to go with the obvious, that which doesn't require much thought or emotional investment. With visual impact becoming an obsession, content floats more and more on surfaces. A ''look'' is more important than integrity, a flashy concept more salable than struggling intelligence. The new season has its pockets of promise and even innovation, no doubt about it. But they are mostly in the form of character tinkerings or slightly adjusted concepts. There's Jack Scalia's more thoughtful tough-guy hero, for instance, on CBS's ''Wolf,'' or the Down's syndrome teen-ager in ABC's family drama ''Life Goes On.'' These and other details, rooted in more or less the real world, are the good part of the picture. 
But as more than 20 new weekly series unfold well beyond their pilot premieres, the overall programming landscape looks increasingly bleak. There's certainly not a single entry of the caliber of ''Hill Street Blues'' or last year's ''The Wonder Years,'' or even ''Roseanne,'' the kinds of shows that take television in new directions. It's as if the commercial networks concluded that kinder, gentler means fuzzier, dumber. Viewers may well remember the cosmetics commercial in which the face of a beautiful woman fills the screen, seductively murmuring: ''I've had it with reality. I want illusion.'' That message threatens to become prime-time's logo. There are, to be sure, other watchable shows on the schedule: the energetic but so far uneven sendup of show-business agents on CBS's ''Famous Teddy Z''; and even ABC's ''Young Riders'' with its frisky attempt to revive the western format, albeit with pretty cowboys who seem to be dressed in Ralph Lauren concepts of the American past. But too many of the other series are downright irritating.
This is the season, for instance, of decidedly odd couples (in entertainment, Jackie Mason and Lynn Redgrave on ABC's ''Chicken Soup,'' Sam Donaldson and in infotainment, Diane Sawyer on ABC's ''Prime Time Live'') and odd pairings (a Catholic nun and a batch of ''misfit'' orphans on NBC's ''Sister Kate,'' Connie Chung and a drama repertory on ''Saturday Night With Connie Chung''). Then there are the always perky youngsters, more than ever obsessed with sex, cosmetics and fashion: the teen-age models on ABC's ''Living Dolls'' or the 16-year-old ''Doogie Howser, M.D.'' on NBC or, on the same network, ''Baywatch,'' with its Los Angeles lifeguards and an endless landscape of unblemished flesh. It should be a good year for dermatologists. Finally - shades of ''I Dream of Jeannie'' fantasy capers - consider Winnie the Witch on ABC's ''Free Spirit'' and the psychic cartoonist on CBS's ''People Next Door.'' Consider, and then carefully avoid.
While hardly new to prime time, titillation now threatens to become the only game in television town. As the networks' audience share in the last decade has plummeted from 92 to 67 percent, the thrust toward cheaper, more accessible product has intensified. With competition from cable and videocassettes continuing, and with advertisers looking anew at market configurations, the networks are not likely in the foreseeable future to become more adventurous, imaginative or, heaven help us, provocative. It's hardly a coincidence that CBS, which once prided itself on being the Tiffany of networks, is this season involved in an extensive campaign of mutual promotion with K-Mart.
This spreading timidity is occurring, of course, at a time when the country is facing a harrowing list of crises: drugs, AIDS, the homeless, failing savings institutions, housing scandals, Wall Street ripoffs and political corruption, just to mention the more prominent. Forget about the rest of the world. But viewers would be hard-pressed to find much evidence of these problems in weekly series.
On the contrary. While the horror of children born with AIDS grows worse, adding to the rolls of parentless children in major urban areas, ''Sister Kate'' offers an episode in which one of the adorable orphans refuses to be adopted because she doesn't want to leave her friend behind in the residential home. Evidently the young ones, like those hordes of homeless and the unemployed who supposedly don't want to work anyway, are best left where they are - periodically exploited by television but carefully kept in their place. Viewers needn't feel threatened, or even terribly concerned.
Programming strategies this year reek of uncertainty. In that sense, they may be reflecting national realities more than is immediately apparent. Witness Washington's Panama scenario. There are indeed a few nods in the direction of what might be considered traditionally ''mature'' programming. CBS, in particular, seems to be focusing on older audiences - in television that means over 30. So ''Island Son'' stars Richard Chamberlain, the mini-series monarch, as a contemporary version of Dr. Kildare, a role that made the actor a star in the early 1960's. But in today's far more turbulent world of medicine, this good and noble doctor comes across as an anachronism.
''Peaceable Kingdom'' has Lindsay Wagner as a mother and the new director of the Los Angeles County Zoo. Significant mention is made at one point of the songs ''Don't Worry, Be Happy'' and ''The Impossible Dream.'' Says mom to her human brood: ''We're never going to have a normal life. Normal is boring.'' So, unfortunately, is ''Peaceable Kingdom.'' In ''Major Dad,'' Gerald McRaney works industriously as a Marine disciplinarian who, for no very convincing reason, marries a ''liberal'' widow with three daughters. The major might easily be mistaken for Ollie North, without the distraction of the Iran-contra scandal.
Elsewhere on the schedule, television continues to woo younger audiences, especially women, the favorite targets of advertisers. On hand is the usual quota of brooding but ever more vulnerable hunks. In addition to Mr. Scalia in ''Wolf,'' there is Richard Tyson, complete with shoulder-length hair, motorcycle and single earring, in NBC's ''Hardball.'' Returning to the old-cop, young-cop formula, ''Hardball'' has Mr. Tyson finding a surrogate father in John Ashton as a veteran detective refusing to be put out to retirement pasture. It is a vintage year for father-son motifs.
As for the always skittish teen-age market, ABC's ''Living Dolls'' may well be setting a new record for exploitation. Michael Learned, once the homebody mother of ''The Waltons,'' is now the chic head of a modeling agency and housemother to several 16-year-old cover girls. When not fussing with their makeup, the fetching lasses are preoccupied with clothes and partying, well on their way to being perfect little consumers. Their own families seem to have disappeared, except for that of one tough street kid from Brooklyn, whose neglectful mother doesn't even want to bother with her birthday. This prompts the poor youngster to use, without permission, a friend's house for a big, messy party. At first the owner, who returns unexpectedly, is furious, but all is forgiven when he learns that the girl only wanted to give herself a birthday party. Awww, coos the sympathetic studio audience.
Authority, parental or otherwise, is clearly a delicate issue on shows geared to young audiences. Most scripts carefully avoid any hint of being old-fashioned, which is nearly always dismissed as boring in an era pursuing the new and trendy. A rare exception was found in a recent episode of ''Doogie Howser, M.D.'' Doogie used, without permission, his parents' home for a big, messy party - yes, plot ideas are rather limited these days - and wound up getting in trouble with the police. Doogie's parents were, and remained, enormously disappointed in him.
Then there are the hunks designed for teen-agers, the kind of leather-jacket-with-earring James Dean types who make daddy glance anxiously at his daughter. Fox Broadcasting has proven especially adept in this market. In ''21 Jump Street,'' about young and unattached undercover cops infiltrating schools and colleges, Johnny Depp emerged as top boyish heartthrob. Then last season Richard Grieco, out of a somewhat chunkier mold, generated so much mail that he has now been given his own series, ''Booker,'' and promoted from rebel cop to unorthodox investigator, though still partial to leather.
How do you like your nation's capital? CBS's ''Top of the Hill'' offers Washington as seen through the idealistic exploits of a youngish surfer turned Congressman (William Katt) who could be mistaken at a distance for Representative Joseph Kennedy. He gives his constituents personal service. Someone missing in the drug thickets of Central America? An adopted woman looking to find her real family for a crucial bone-marrow transplant? No problem. Over on NBC, however, ''Mancuso, F.B.I.,'' with the always estimable Robert Loggia in the lead role, approaches Washington as a cesspool. ''Clout and phone calls and coverups,'' snarls seedy Mancuso, ''that's how this stinking town gets by.'' Consuming dry Manhattans and peanuts in his favorite gin mill, he looks up at the TV set and sneers, ''The First Amendment - television's answer to the Spanish Inquisition.'' Of course, Mancuso is equally idealistic, just in a grittier way.
Also set in Washington, but for no very pressing purpose, is CBS's ''Snoops,'' which seems eager to accomplish for Tim Reid and Daphne Maxwell Reid, also married off screen, what ''Hart to Hart,'' itself a variation on the old Nick and Nora Charles ''Thin Man'' movies, did for Robert Wagner and Stefanie Powers. He teaches criminology. She is a protocol aide for the State Department. Together, with the use of a chauffeured limousine and spiffy wardrobes, they solve assorted criminal cases that, alas, tend to be rather obvious. The only other new series with black actors in the lead roles is the ABC sitcom ''Family Matters.'' And, effectively segregated, this family doesn't venture very far from the standard broad strokes of sitcom. Shouts bossy grandma: ''We gotta eat now or I'm not going to be regular all week.''
If the times might seem especially propitious for comedy, some of the more prominent efforts are struggling noticeably. Few spectacles have been more excruciatingly embarrassing than watching Mr. Mason and Miss Redgrave in the ill-conceived ''Chicken Soup'' pretending to be romantically interested in each other. ''The Famous Teddy Z,'' starring Jon Cryer as a new show business agent who's learning on the job, got off to a hilarious start, then collapsed in a dreary second episode. The next installment, however, recovered nicely as Teddy tended to the career needs of Bobby, a chimpanzee. It seemed Bobby's sitcom was beginning to get to him after six years of production. ''He feels the scripts are all the same,'' the chimp's manager explained. There certainly is potential here.
For the most part, it is still too early to determine which of these new series will survive. The ratings picture is currently being skewed by the championship baseball series. And some established shows, such as ''L.A. Law,'' won't be returning until November. But with the networks grasping at worn formats and questionable gimmicks, it's likely that fewer and fewer viewers will care. There are too many alternatives available, some of them perhaps a bit more attuned to the world around us.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article in the Arts and Leisure section today about the new television season refers incorrectly in some copies to the network on which the television series ''Doogie Howser, M.D.'' appears. It is ABC, not NBC.

GRAPHIC: ''The Famous Teddy Z''; ''Living Dolls'' (pg. 1); ''Doogie Howser, M.D.'' stars Neil Patrick Harris as another perky youngster; ''Mancuso, F.B.I.'' stars Robert Loggia (left) as another gritty idealist (pg 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; TELEVISION PROGRAMS NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); TALENT AGENTS (73%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (71%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); DOWN SYNDROME (51%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, JOHN J RALPH LAUREN (50%); 



351 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2309 words

HEADLINE: Rewriting the Rules of Retailing

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: TYSONS CORNER, Va.

 BODY:
There is no happier sound to the merchant's ear than that of a constantly ringing cash register.
F. W. Woolworth.
It was a sight that would have warmed Mr. Woolworth's heart.
Like so many faithful drawn to a sacred site, Columbus Day sales brought out the crowds last Monday to what many consider the high altar of shopping - a two-mall complex here of seven department stores and 330 specialty shops in one of America's most affluent areas. The parking lots were packed, the stores crowded and the cash registers - now electronic - were humming with sales. 
But on this particular holiday, there was added drama. Retailing has fallen on hard times as industry profits continue to slide and some of the best names in the business are now on the auction block. At Tysons Corner, these dislocations were abundantly - and often painfully - clear.
At Bloomingdale's, once at the vanguard of merchandising but now struggling with lower profits, a sea of red signs advertising sales of 25 to 50 percent off beckoned, but few customers responded. Bloomingdale's legendary pizazz, it seems, has faded. But a vision of retailing's future was just across the mall. Nordstrom, the Seattle-based department store chain that has honed customer service into an art form, had few markdowns but plenty of shoppers. A pianist played Gershwin tunes in the main lobby and unfailingly helpful clerks waited on customers eagerly buying from an attractive selection of goods.
Retailing, which rises and falls on fashion, economics and demographics, is being turned on its head. Recent headlines may tell the tale of how at least seven crown jewels of retailing, including Bloomingdale's, Saks Fifth Avenue and Bonwit Teller, are being sold by their parent companies. But those sales - the unpleasant aftermath of a leveraged buyout wave that swept through retailing in the last few years - are only symptomatic of deeper forces reshaping the industry.
Once a growth industry that racked up profits from a rising population tide, retailing has matured into a business where one store's gains now come only at the expense of another. The massive overbuilding of shopping complexes during the 1970's has left America ''over-malled.'' Yet Americans' appetite for these products has slackened. The baby boom generation that turned shopping into a leisure activity is aging, and becoming more interested in saving for the future.
As a result, retailing - which last year was a $418 billion industry, according to the United States Census Bureau - is far less lucrative today. Industry profit margins are a minuscule 1.69 percent, the lowest since 1968, and after-tax profits have fallen by 3.6 percent a year since 1986, according to Columbus, Ohio-based Management Horizons.
''There's a war going on,'' said Howard Davidowitz, head of his own retail consulting firm. ''We've overpopulated America with stores.'' Alan Millstein, publisher of the Fashion Network Report, a monthly trade letter, said: ''These are the most dire times for the industry since the Great Depression of the 1930's.''
Like other American industries - steel and autos, for instance - retailing suffers from overcapacity and is in the process of being restructured. It is moving from big department store dominance to an era characterized by stores that provide highly focused merchandise for specific groups. Mass marketing and centralization have given way to specialty providers and alternative channels of distribution like direct mail, telemarketing and home shopping.
''We're entering a period of slower economic and population growth and that means we're entering a mature market for retailing,'' said Sandra Shaber, an economist with The Futures Group, a Washington, D.C.-consulting firm. ''Competition will largely be for market share and this tends to be price competition. The other way to get market share is to find a new market niche that no one thought of. The marketplace is ripe for that right now. Mass marketing died a long time ago.''
 
Two Types of Survivors
 Ultimately, some predict, retailing will further divide into two groups - department and specialty stores that compete on customer service and highly focused merchandise, and discount giants that offer commodity goods at rock-bottom prices. Success will come to those devoted to the old retailing adage of giving customers what they want, whether it is a Nordstrom that provides top-notch service, a Limited that offers the trendiest fashions or a Wal-Mart that competes with aggressive prices. Providing a broad array of goods for all is no longer enough. The trick is to constantly re-establish a store's focus - something that many traditional department stores have lost sight of.
''Department stores are at the end of their life cycle and have to be reinvented,'' said Peter J. Solomon, who heads his own investment bank. ''People are more sophisticated. They don't want to go out and wander around department stores any more. Department stores are no longer the dominant form of retailing, although, when good, they still have tremendous amounts of capital, muscle and drawing ability.''
This is not to say, however, that all department stores will disappear, even though most agree their ranks will thin. ''Rumors of the death of the department stores are much exaggerated,'' said Stephen E. Watson, chief executive of the Dayton-Hudson Department Store Company.
''The weaker will tend not to do so well and close their doors or be swallowed,'' Mr. Watson said. ''But department stores have been remarkably resilient over the last 100 years. There will be fewer but larger players. The outlook is good for those that can satisfy what the customer wants, which right now is high service and fair prices.''
The greatest competitive threat to department stores has come from specialty retailers, which, along with discounters, have stolen market share. In the $108 billion women's apparel market alone, specialty retailers now have about 15 percent market share, compared with the department stores' 28 percent.
The Limited is perhaps the biggest success story of the group, which includes such national chains as the Gap, Laura Ashley, Ann Taylor, Crate and Barrel. Starting out in Middle Western shopping malls, the Limited operates 754 apparel stores for women in their 20's to 40's. Its sales have grown largely at the expense of department stores to more than $4 billion, up from $238 million in 1979.
Specialty retailers say they can provide something department stores cannot - or do not. ''We just flat out provide better service,'' said Douglas Gantos, head of Gantos Inc. With 131 stores in 22 states, the Grand Rapids, Mich.-based women's retailer has grown by 30 percent a year. ''We greet the customer and try to get her out of the store as quickly as possible. We've got to keep building better mousetraps to get them to our door.''
 
Designers As Rivals
 Department stores have also been hurt by some of their own suppliers. Such purveyors as Ralph Lauren, Wedgewood, Burberry and Liz Claiborne have opened their own stores, often within a stone's throw of department stores.
And there has been greater acceptance of off-price stores and discounters, which sell either lower-quality goods or branded names at bargainprices. Discounters now account for about 28 percent of women's apparel sales and 37 percent in men's.
''Ten years ago, it was socially desirable to talk about where you bought at item,'' said David D. Glass, president of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ''What's socially acceptable today is what you paid for it.''
Price consciousness has been the force behind the rise of no-frills volume stores like Toys 'R' Us in chidren's goods and Circuit City in electronics. Such ''power'' retailers compete by having lower prices and a superior selection of a single product line. And, on the horizon are new ''hypermarkets'' being pioneered by Wal-Mart, which carry discount merchandise and food in stores the size of football fields.
The rise of new distribution channels that challenge old ways of buying also added to the turmoil. While catalogues, of course, have been around since Montgomery Ward, many direct mail marketers today - L. L. Bean, Sharper Image and J. Crew, to name a few - offer 24-hour order-taking and specialty merchandise.
Some of these catalogue companies have even expanded into hybrid operations with retail stores. For instance, Talbot's, a women's retailer based in Hingham, Mass., whose catalogue circulation is 70 million, is opening stores at the rate of 20 to 25 a year. Talbot's has grown from five stores in 1973 to 137 today. ''The catalogues become a tremendous advertising tool for our stores and the stores give us exposure for our catalogue,'' said Arnold Zetcher, Talbot's chief executive.
Technology, in fact, is making it easier to stay out of stores entirely. Home television shopping, for instance, which peddles primarily low-priced items, is expected to move into higher-ticket goods. And shoppers can even buy products over their personal computers through such services as Prodigy, which is marketed by Sears and the International Business Machines Corporation.
 
Department Stores' Fall
 All these changes were taking place just as department stores were becoming the darlings of Wall Street's takeover artists about three years ago. In fact, many department stores are in trouble in part because the entrepreneurs who paid so dearly for them - Australia's L.J. Hooker Ltd. and Canada's Campeau Corporation - didn't entirely understand what they were buying. ''You had overly ambitious egos getting involved in things they knew nothing about,'' said Kurt Barnard, a newsletter publisher.
When Wall Street came calling, many of these department stores had already become vulnerable. They had lost touch with their customers by relying on a formula that was at least 25 years old. The department store credit card, which tied customers to specific retailers, lost its power as mass cards like American Express and Visa expanded. And much of the merchandise, particularly apparel - the backbone of every department store - began to look the same.
''The stores began to become boring and look too much alike,'' Mr. Barnard said. ''They had fallen into the trap of their own success. They didn't know how to become more competitive.'' Added Robert G. Nesbit, senior partner in retailing at Korn Ferry International, an executive search firm: '' It used to be that the anchor store drew people to the malls. Now the kids are going to find out what's in the specialty stores.''
Many retailers, department stores along with others, failed to keep up with technology. Only a few - Wal-Mart, the Limited and such successful department store chains as Dillard's, based in Little Rock, Ark., and Dayton-Hudson's - implemented highly sophisicated data processing systems to track the ebb and flow of merchandise. ComputerWorld Premier 100, a trade publication, reports that the top 10 retailers spend an average of 1.24 percent of their revenues on information systems, compared with 4.9 percent in banking and 4 percent in transportation.
But instead of these problems, the raiders saw hidden real estate values, undervalued assets and unrelated businesses that could be sold. ''They were the perfect target,'' said Mr. Davidowitz. ''Their stock prices were low, they had hidden assets and could generate cash.''
 
The Raiders Descend
 And so the raiders descended. But, with such heavy debt loads, these companies got caught in a bind. They did not have the cash to re-invest in stores, yet had to generate customers' dollars to cover their borrowings. ''All their money got tied up in debt,'' Mr. Nesbit said. ''The stores have now got to satisfy the banks before they satisfy the customer. They got it reversed.''
The Canadian real estate tycoon Robert Campeau, who paid $6.7 billion in 1987 to buy Federated Department Stores, the parent of Bloomingdale's, is on the edge of bankruptcy. L.J. Hooker, the new owner of Bonwit's and B. Altman & Company. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection this summer. And B.A.T., the British tobacco conglomerate, recently put Saks and Marshall Field up for sale.
In this environment, the lesson is that of the vulnerability of retailing. For instance, it seemed that giant Wal-Mart came out of nowhere - from Bentonville, Ark. - to take on Sears, the nation's largest retailer. Today Wal-Mart has some 1,300 stores with sales of nearly $20 billion. As Sears made ill-fated forays into financial service, insurance and real estate, Wal-Mart stuck to its strategy of building cavernous stores of discount merchandise and rolled up a 35 percent annual growth rate. Sears is now struggling to compete with new ''everyday low prices'' while rival K-Mart has seen its market share drop to about 40 percent, from about 65 percent in 1980.
The small are as vulnerable as the big. Such new specialty shops as Alcott & Andrews, a women's career outfitter that made a splash when it opened, failed largely because of a poorly executed expansion plan. And the once-popular Banana Republic has floundered amid a limited appetite for its safari attire.
Ironically, with so many stores for sale, retailing may return to its roots. Individual stores are expected to be taken out of corporate hands by merchandising entrepreneurs who are often more sensitive to changing tastes and more willing to take marketing risks. Corporations think about numbers; merchandising entrepreneurs, about fashion.
''There's a lot of shaking going on with so many for sale,'' said Mr. Zetcher of Talbot's. ''It's a little disheartening to spend all these years in retailing to see this happening. But we may go back to the way it was, when families and independent operators ran the stores.''

GRAPHIC: Shoppers were scarce last Wednesday at the store in Tysons Corner, Va. Many say the old department store formula is stale (NYT/Michael Geissinger); graphs of total non-auto retail sales and after-tax profits on retail sales, 1980-1989* (*Estimate) (Source: Management Horizons) (pg. 1); photo of Nordstrom's in Tysons Corner (NYT/Michael Geissinger); Bloomingdale's (NYT/Michael Geissinger); pie chart of market share of apparel sales for department stores, discounters, specialty stores, catalogues, off-price retailers and others for 1988 (Source: Management Horizons) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%); UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (51%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PRICES; DISCOUNT SELLING; FORECASTS RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); AUCTIONS (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); LOBBYING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); CENSUS (64%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (63%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE



352 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL FINANCE;
Deciding How to Cash In an Annuity

BYLINE: By DONALD JAY KORN; Donald Jay Korn writes about financial topics from New York.

 BODY:
For at least a decade, deferred annuities have been popular with investors. Under these contracts, money you pay to an insurance company builds up, free of current income taxes. The taxes are deferred until you reclaim your cash.
Now, as many annuity investors near retirement age, they have to decide how to get their money. If you are in that position, your options are wider - and more complicated - than you may realize. 
Your basic choice is whether or not to ''annuitize'' your contract. When you annuitize, you sign a new contract with an insurance company, this time providing for a scheduled payout, typically a fixed monthly amount.
Some financial advisers urge investors to delay annuitizing as long as possible. Annuities held as part of retirement plans may require distributions starting at age 70 1/2. Otherwise, you can postpone annuitizing the contract until the insurance company's rules say you must, generally at age 85. ''When you annuitize, you lose flexibility, because you're locked into the schedule you select,'' said Dale McClelland, a financial planner based in Flint, Mich. ''You also wind up paying for the costs of setting up the annuity payout.''
Instead, you can leave things as they are and take out money when it suits your purposes, through loans or withdrawals. Withdrawals generally are better, because there is no interest to pay. Typically, there is an amount you can take out each year without paying a penalty charge to the insurer. After perhaps 7 to 10 years from the start of the annuity, a period that varies by contract, you can make unlimited withdrawals without a surrender charge. (There may be tax consequences whenever you take money out, depending on your age and the age of the policy.) So why would anyone annuitize? To get ''income you can't outlive,'' said Alecia Oberg, senior consultant for The New England, an insurance company based in Boston. With an annuity payout schedule, you can lock in a stream of income for your lifetime, and the life of a loved one, if you choose.
If you annuitize, however, you face a bewildering variety of choices. One choice is between fixed and variable payouts. A fixed payout - so many dollars per month - is the standard. But some insurers also offer you a payout that varies, depending upon investment results. With a variable-payout annuity, your contract may be invested among several mutual funds.
Choosing the variable-payout annuity may help you deal with inflation. So some people direct their annuity contracts into a stock fund or real estate fund, figuring that the long-term growth will provide increasing payouts. Or, to cut risk, you can choose a money market fund. Then, if inflation accelerates and interest rates go back into double digits, your payout likely will keep pace.
Of course, not everyone wants to take a chance with an annuity nest egg. If you want a dependable income for life, choose a fixed-payout annuity.
The basic version is the single-life annuity. When you annuitize, the insurance company will look at your age and your contract amount, make some guesses about future interest rates, then offer you a certain amount for the rest of your life. A 65-year-old man, for example, with a $100,000 contract would currently be offered $926 per month ($11,112 per year) by The New England.
Accepting such an offer is a pure crapshoot. You might collect one payment, then die. If so, the insurance company gets to keep the entire amount left in the contract. (If you die before you annuitize, your named beneficiary gets the money.) But if you live to age 120, the insurance company has to keep on paying you that $926 month after month.
If you have family members to consider, you might accept a smaller monthly payout in return for more security. For example, suppose that 65-year-old man with the $100,000 contract has a 62-year-old wife. He can obtain a ''joint and survivor'' annuity from The New England that will pay $732 per month - $194 less than straight life - as long as either of them still lives.
There are a host of other options, but Ms. Oberg said that the most popular payout mode is ''life with 10 years certain.'' Here, the individual with the contract gets a lifetime payout but the insurance company agrees to pay for at least 10 years, to the recipient's beneficiary, if necessary. At The New England, this payout would be $886 per month.
Different insurance companies make different assumptions about future interest rates. Therefore, payouts can vary significantly from company to company. Before choosing a payout schedule, shop around. You are not wed to the insurance company that held your contract during the deferred buildup period. If you find a better deal at another insurer, you can switch your account via a ''1035 tax-free exchange.''
Taxes, of course, must be considered. Different rules apply when annuitizing or making withdrawals and loans.
If you bought your annuity before Aug. 14, 1982, and are making withdrawals or loans, you are fortunate. ''You can take out as much as you want, via loans and withdrawals, without a 10 percent tax penalty,'' said Joel Isaacson, director of personal financial planning at Weber Lipshie & Company, a New York-based accounting firm. Only after you have taken out an amount equal to all the premiums that you have paid will you run into an income tax on subsequent distributions.
If you bought an annuity since Aug. 14, 1982, however, the tax bite is crueler. Any withdrawals before age 59 1/2 are subject to the 10 percent tax penalty. Your distributions also will be treated as taxable income, up to the total amount of investment income in the contract. Thereafter, cash flow will be a tax-free return of your own money.
As for annuitizing, the Internal Revenue Service considers each payment part income, part return of capital. The income part is taxed; the insurance company will provide an annual statement to help you figure it out.
This can make a big difference in deciding whether to annuitize or make withdrawals. If you bought an annuity after Aug. 14, 1982, you may prefer annuitizing if you are in a 28 or a 33 percent tax bracket, while those in a 15 percent bracket may choose not to annuitize because their tax bill won't be so forbidding.
''In any event,'' Mr. Isaacson said, ''don't be in a hurry to annuitize now - and lock in a return - while interest rates are relatively low.''
Fortunately, taking money out of an annuity does not have to be an either-or choice. ''Many companies will permit you to split your contract,'' Ms. Oberg said. You can take a portion and buy a fixed annuity, for example, while the rest goes into a variable annuity, for growth potential, or stays in the tax-deferral stage, for flexibility.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (70%); NORTHEAST USA (52%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT; ANNUITIES ANNUITIES (93%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: KORN, DONALD JAY



353 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Tempting New Offerings in Technology

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
When stock prices crashed two years ago, hot young technology companies suffered some of the steepest declines. The market for initial public offerings, particularly in technology, vanished.
Today, with the market back at record levels, investment firms are selling new issues again. But this time, only the most promising technology companies can go public, and then at prices far lower than these companies would have fetched before the crash. As long as Wall Street remains skittish about these stocks, investors can find some bargains. 
The go-go days for new technology issues were in 1982 and 1983, when almost any company with a chip and a dream could go public, often at 30 or 40 times earnings. But for every Apple Computer Inc. that grew into a multibillion-dollar company, there was an Osborne Computer Company or a Victor Technologies Inc. - personal computer companies that flourished briefly and then folded.
Even the largest technology companies have performed so erratically of late that investors remain wary of the entire group. The market is so selective that investors can buy shares in sound companies at very attractive prices. The volume of initial public offerings has remained low, especially ''if you compare today with the heyday of 1982 and 1983 when the high-tech IPO market really hit its zenith,'' said Allan Hadhazy, a senior analyst with the Institute for Econometric Research in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., which publishes the New Issues newsletter.
Technology offerings, virtually absent in 1988, reappeared with the successful debut of the Network General Corporation, a maker of instruments for diagnosing problems in personal computer networks, on July 21. Offered at $8, an earnings multiple of 16, Network General closed Friday at 18 1/4. ''What made Network General so attractive was that a nice company was priced at a very low multiple just to get it out the door,'' Mr. Hadhazy said.
As soon as the Network General deal succeeded, registrations for new offerings dramatically increased. Two of the best-performing initial public offerings this year were in technology, by Network General and later by New Image Industries, a computer image processing company that went public on August 24 at 6 1/2. The stock closed Friday at 12 3/4.
Investment firms that specialize in taking technology companies public are becoming more confident. Sanford R. Robertson, the general partner of Robertson, Stephens & Company in San Francisco, said that while demand for technology issues is not strong, ''I would not hestitate at all to do a technology offering today.'' Robertson finds fault with those who compare the new issues market to a window, sometimes open, sometimes shut. ''That's the wrong analogy,'' he said. ''It's not binary. The real analogy is, the market acts as a filter. That filter is a little bit fine now, but the deals that are getting through are doing well.''
Robertson boasted that his firm's last two offerings have been ''spectacular.'' The Symantec Corporation, a personal computer software company, went public on June 25 at 10 1/2 and closed Friday at 17 1/4; the Cirrus Logic Corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, which also went public June 8 at 10, closed Friday at 13.
Montgomery Securities is also catching the upbeat spirit, after a couple of very slow years. Some of the companies it had once intended to take public had their plans scuttled by the 1987 crash. Many of these companies have turned to other sources of capital; others were so short of money that they had to sell out to larger companies. ''Two years is a long time for a technology company,'' said Alan L. Stein, Montgomery's executive director of investment banking.
Montgomery currently has two technology companies in registration for their initial offerings: the Exabyte Corporation, a maker of computer data storage devices using eight-millimeter tape cartridges; and Knowledgeware Inc., which produces computer-aided software engineering, or CASE, products. ''There is very strong demand on both of these; there is not going to be any problem doing these deals,'' Mr. Stein said. Mr. Stein admits, though, that technology remains a tough sell. Technology issues are priced at 10 or 15 times earnings, he said, about half the prevailing ratios a couple of years ago. ''There have been so many disappointments in the after-market - quarterly disappointments, one after another,'' he said. ''People just don't trust these companies; therefore, the multiples are lower.''
So low, in fact, that some companies are delaying their offerings in hopes of receiving higher prices later. ''We're in the phase where a good company can come public, but the valuations aren't too good,'' said Michael T. Murphy, publisher of the California Technology Stock Letter. He expects new issues to have higher prices later.
Among the respected companies waiting to file, Mr. Murphy counts MIPS Computer Systems Inc., which makes very fast microprocessors and computers based on reduced instruction set computing, or RISC; the Vitesse Electronics Corporation, which makes gallium arsenide computer chips, and the Telebit Corporation, a maker of high-speed modems.
Another prominent company expected to hold back is Sybase Inc., a leading producer of data base management software. Sybase announced last month that it will sell a 15 percent stake to the Lotus Development Corporation, for an undisclosed amount. ''My guess is if they really wanted to come public they probably could,'' said Mr. Murphy. ''But they will probably get a higher valuation if they wait.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); XRAY (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%); NETWORK GENERAL CORP (83%); DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (51%); INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH (54%); INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH (54%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); IMAGE PROCESSING & COMPUTER VISION (74%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M



354 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: WEEK IN BUSINESS;
October Turns Ugly Once More

BYLINE: By STEVE DODSON

 BODY:
Stocks had a dizzying plunge on Friday, with the Dow Jones industrial average dropping a scary 190.58 points and reviving painful memories of the 1987 stock crash that produced a 508-point plunge on Oct. 19. Friday's heavy selling wiped out all the gains from an early October rally that, just last Monday, had taken the Dow to a new high of 2,791.41. The plunge came when the employee-led group trying to buy UAL said it could not raise all the money it needed. Deals like the UAL buyout have provided much of the market's strength this year. For the week, the Dow lost 216.26 points, to close at 2,569.26. Bond prices surged as investors shifted money out of stocks. The dollar posted steep declines after the market tumbled.
 
*
 It was a tough week for financing deals. Beside the problems with the United Airlines buyout, Ramada Inc. failed to raise $230 million in a ''junk bond'' financing needed to carry out a plan to shed its hotels and concentrate on casinos. That contributed to a wave of selling in the overall market for high-yield securities. The junk market has been nervous since a severe slump in mid-September, and one widely followed expert, Robert M. Steinberg, the head of arbitrage at Bear, Stearns, said he thought the worst was yet to come. 
 
*
 A jump in wholesale prices in September revived worries about inflation. The increase of nine-tenths of 1 percent last month followed three months of declines. The September figure put the annual wholesale inflation rate at 5.1 percent. The rate for all of 1988 was 4 percent. The September data were heavily influenced by rising energy prices and by auto prices, which were skewed because the auto makers offered their end-of- the-model-year discounts earlier in the summer than usual . . . Retail sales were strong in September, posting a gain of five-tenths of a percent. September was the seventh straight month to register rising sales.
 
*
 The Amex picked a chairman from outside Wall Street. The choice to head the American Stock Exchange was James R. Jones, who was White House chief of staff under Lyndon B. Johnson and served seven terms as a Congressman from Oklahoma. Since leaving Congress in 1986, Mr. Jones, who is 50 years old, has been a lawyer in Washington and has developed wide contacts there and in Europe and Asia. He replaces Arthur Levitt Jr., 58, who has led the Amex for 11 years and is leaving to devote more time to his publishing company.
 
*
 Maurice Saatchi is stepping down as chief executive of Saatchi & Saatchi, the world's largest advertising company. The position will go to Robert Louis-Dreyfus, a 43-year-old French executive who is not well known in advertising circles. Mr. Louis-Dreyfus had been chief executive of IMS International, a pharmaceutical market-research and publishing company that expanded rapidly under his leadership. Mr. Saatchi, 43, will remain chairman and executive director and his brother, Charles, 46, will continue as an executive director. Saatchi & Saatchi is under pressure because of its poor financial performance recently. This year it expects to report its first-ever decline in earnings. The largest shareholder, Southeastern Asset Management of Memphis, said last week that it has talked to other parties about ways to enhance the value of Saatchi shares.
 
*
 Banks posted big losses as expected because of the large additions they made to their reserves for bad loans to third world countries. Chemical Bank lost $824.6 million in the third quarter, reflecting a $900 million increase in reserves. Chase Manhattan had a $1.1 billion loss and Bank of New York lost $271.3 million . . . General Electric reported a 16 percent increase in quarterly profits. CBS's earnings were down 11.5 percent.
 
*
 A Norwegian won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science. Trygve Haavelmo, 77 years old, was honored for working out statistical techniques that helped other economists develop the econometric models that are used to predict how a change in one aspect of the economy will affect others.
 
*
 Miscellanea. May Department Stores is getting out of the discount business. Its 118-store Caldor chain in the Northeast will be sold for $500 million to a group that includes management, and its 73-store Venture chain in the Midwest will be spun off to shareholders . . . Four 24-cent airmail stamps issued in 1918 and inadvertently printed with an upside- down airplane were sold for $1 million. The sellers were the Weill brothers stamp dealers of New Orleans; the buyer was identified only as ''an American broadcast executive'' . . . Merck and Johnson & Johnson are jointly buying ICI America, an over- the-counter drug operation of Imperial Chemical of Britain. The deal was valued at $450 million.

GRAPHIC: Graph of daily close of Dow Jones industrial average, Oct. 2-13, 1989 (NYT); photo of James R. Jones

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (74%); EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); BOND MARKETS (75%); INFLATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); RETAIL SALES (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT M STEINBERG (54%); 



355 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Salvadorans Wonder How To Think About Peace

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR

 BODY:
VIOLENCE and suffering have been so central a part of El Salvador's experience that the national anthem reminds the people how ''painful and bloody is your history.'' Ten years ago today, though, a group of young and idealistic military officers launched a coup here ushering in a period of turmoil and destruction that has taxed even this country's remarkable ability to endure.
In a decade of civil war, 70,000 have died and the country has sustained several billion dollars in material damages. The people have been left exhausted and hoping that new negotiations between the Salvadoran Government and the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front - talks scheduled to begin Monday in San Jose, Costa Rica - can somehow lead to what the national anthem calls ''the supreme bliss'' of peace. But the war has so transformed every aspect of the national landscape that it is difficult for any but the most optimistic Salvadoran to envision the shape of or the timetable for peace. 
Ten years ago, on Oct. 15, 1979, young officers overthrew the military-led government run by their superiors and replaced them with a reformist military-civilian junta. Eventually, they were elbowed aside themselves by more ambitious and decidedly less progressive colleagues, but they did achieve their immediate goal: forestalling a revolution like the one that brought the Sandinistas to power in neighboring Nicaragua a few months earlier. The principal beneficiaries of their pre-emptive action, however, have turned out to be two of the forces that most strongly opposed their reformist program -the military hierarchy and the revolutionary insurgency. Even after presidential elections resumed in 1984, the war continued and the military retained enormous influence over policy making.
With 55,000 men, the armed forces today are four times larger than they were 10 years ago, and have the corresponding political clout without the onus of a military man in the Presidency. American training and $1 billion in military aid have helped make them a more effective fighting force, a far cry from the early 1980's, when they were still struggling to shift away from a doctrine of conventional warfare to that of a guerrilla conflict and were routinely implicated in massacres of civilian noncombatants.
But the guerrillas, who 10 years ago were deeply divided on questions of political and military strategy, have also strengthened themselves. At Fidel Castro's urging, they came together in 1980 to form the F.M.L.N. and have operated fairly effectively as a united front, despite an internal dispute in 1983 in which two leaders were killed. Though a ''final offensive'' in 1981 failed, they have demonstrated that they can control significant chunks of territory and sustain a strategy of ''prolonged popular war.''
The result has been a standoff, with each side showing it can keep the other from winning but cannot vanquish the enemy. In that context, this week's peace talks promised to become, in a reversal of van Clausewitz's famous dictum, an extension of the war by other means, with each side apparently set on engaging the other and testing its strength. Last month, the F.M.L.N. offered a three-stage plan to bring the war to an end by Jan. 31, 1990, starting with a Nov. 15 cease-fire accompanied by fundamental reforms of the political, judicial and military systems. At the United Nations Oct. 2, President Alfredo Cristiani raised the ante by calling for a complete and immediate ''cessation of hostilities,'' to be followed by political talks.
''Each side thinks time is on its side,'' said Guillermo Ungo, a member of the original 1979 junta who now leads the Democratic Convergence, a left-center coalition sympathetic to the F.M.L.N. Each side has also called into doubt the sincerity of the other's negotiating position. ''The possibility of winning power by arms has been exhausted, and we have obliged the F.M.L.N. to reconsider its strategy,'' Defense Minister Raphael Larios said in an interview last week. Similarly, the F.M.L.N. dismissed the Government proposal of an immediate cessation of hostilities as a political maneuver designed to undermine them and to avoid having to carry out reforms.
In the meantime, the country's social and economic fabric continues to deteriorate. One million Salvadorans now live in the United States, and the money they send home has become the battered economy's single largest source of foreign exchange. The 5.25 million people who remain here, including hundreds of thousands who have been displaced by fighting in the countryside and a disastrous earthquake three years ago, have seen per capita income slide back to the levels of the early 1960's as jobs, exports and reserves evaporate. Grappling with these problems has proved to be a challenge beyond the ability of any of the Governments of the last decade. Disgusted with economic decline and corruption after five years of rule by the centrist Christian Democratic Party of Jose Napoleon Duarte, voters earlier this year turned to Mr. Cristiani and the strongly right-wing Nationalist Republican Alliance, or Arena. The vote capped a remarkable rise to both respectability and power for the party; it was founded in the wake of the 1979 coup by Maj. Roberto d'Aubuisson, whom an American Ambassador here, Robert E. White, once described as a ''pathological killer,'' as well as by other military men linked to death-squad activity and by their allies in the business community. The vote also indicated the collapse of the political center, which had largely favored the early reforms.
If there is any slight solace for the populace in the current state of affairs, it is that violence has diminished somewhat from the levels of a decade ago and become less indiscriminate, although complaints of repression have begun to rise again, since Mr. Cristiani took office in June. Political murders, which took place at a staggering rate of 750 a month in the early 1980's and were mostly attributable to right-wing death squads, had dropped to about 25 a month by 1988; current figures are the subject of intense debate. F.M.L.N. use of mines, assassination of mayors and forced recruitment have also become human rights concerns, although in urban areas the principal manifestation of the war appears to be the rebels' sabotage of the electric, telephone and transportation systems.
All this would seem to point to a situation that is neither immediate peace nor a larger conflict. ''A final victory against the guerrillas is almost impossible,'' a senior military officer acknowledged. ''You have the example of Northern Ireland, or Spain's battle with ETA.''
El Salvador ''is the country of the two-track policy,'' said Ruben Zamora, leader of the Social Christian Popular Movement and a former member of the insurgency's political directorate. ''In this case, it means more talking, but it also means more fighting.''
 
A COUP PLUS A DECADE OF WAR
 
1979-1980: War Breaks Out
Young military officers stage coup, promise free elections, punishment for human rights violations and economic and social reforms. Country polarizes and successive military-civilian juntas find efforts to implement substantial reforms thwarted. Warfare in countryside and violence in cities break out as extreme right and left maneuver for advantage. Right-wing death squads kill thousands, including Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero.
 
1981-1983: U.S. Aid Grows
Guerrillas' ''final offensive'' fails, but fighting continues. Reagan Administration takes office and steps up commitment to military and economic aid. Junta dominated by Christian Democrats gives way to a figurehead civilian interim President.
 
1984-1988: Duarte Is Elected
Presidential election gives victory to Jose Napoleon Duarte, leader of the Christian Democrats. Violence in countryside continues, as American aid grows to more than $3 billion. Christian Democratic Government gradually loses political credibility, and right-wing Arena party wins 1988 Assembly elections. Earthquake in 1986 kills 2,000.
 
1989: The Rightists Take Over
Mr. Duarte's term ends with him immobilized by cancer. Insurgent violence increases in cities. Arena wins presidential election amid predictions of increased repression and a new surge of death-squad activity. Guerrillas and Government float competing peace plans and agree to begin negotiations.

GRAPHIC: Rebels killed by Salvadoran soldiers during an attack last month on a military base near San Salvador (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: EL SALVADOR (94%); COSTA RICA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EL SALVADOR

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; PEACE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); COUPS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); MEN (68%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 



356 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
The Next Wave From Vietnam: A New Disability

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
WHEN Nguyen Van Be, once a colonel in the South Vietnamese army, emerged from 13 years in a re-education camp last year, he wrote to his wife in Washington, wondering how to fit into a world that had left him behind. ''He feels he got lost somewhere,'' says his wife. ''He feels like someone from the jungle.''
Now Colonel Be is among thousands of former political prisoners waiting for a chance to move to the United States under an agreement reached last summer. Last week, American officials began interviewing freed prisoners in Ho Chi Minh City, the first step toward bringing the first 3,000 to the United States. 
Another 100,000 former prisoners and their families have requested entry into the United States. Vietnamese authorities have put the figure of former prisoners and their families at 500,000.
Resettling this group will be a step toward closing out this nation's debt to its Indochinese wartime allies. ''These people have been detained because of their close association with us during the war,'' said Robert Funseth, the senior deputy assistant secretary of state for refugee affairs, who has spent most of this decade negotiating their resettlement. ''They are of special humanitarian concern to the United States.''
The United States has accepted more than a half million Vietnamese since the first 135,000 fled Vietnam at the end of the war in April 1975. The first were the lucky ones among the South Vietnamese elite, the ones who succeeded in the scramble for planes and helicopters.
During the mass escapes by boat that began in the late 1970's, the United States committed itself to taking 14,000 Vietnamese a month. This exodus included higher proportions of farmers, fishermen, and other villagers, people who did not fit so easily into Western society. There were proportionately fewer ethnic Chinese, with their economic hustle and Chinatown connections. At the same time, the large numbers of refugees began to strain government and private agencies.
Some communities have been transformed by the influx. In California, a state that officials say may be home to nearly half the Vietnamese refugees, the center of Westminster, just south of Los Angeles, is now known as ''Little Saigon.''
The former prisoners, who could begin arriving in the United States before the end of this year, include many former leaders of the South Vietnamese society that the United States was fighting to keep in place.
''There's going to be a lot of the old political leadership, old generals, old ministers, old party leaders,'' said Dawn Calabia, associate director for refugee affairs at the United States Catholic Conference. ''Some of them are going to be very embittered.''
 
The Lost and the Tough
Some, said Donald Cohon, a San Francisco psychologist who has interviewed former inmates, are likely to be ''shells of people, brutalized to the point where they are nonfunctional.'' Most, he said, will have suffered years of malnutrition.
But, as Ms. Calabia said, ''Some are going to turn out to be tough as nails, survivors of the worst the Vietnamese could do.''
There will be men like Nguyen Hau, an army major specializing in ordnance, who was released after being severely injured in a camp, fled by boat to Malaysia, arrived in the United States at the age of 52 and immediately went to school, after a lifetime of military service, to study to become a mechanic.
Mr. Hau, who was a mechanic until the small company he worked for folded recently, now heads a nationwide organization of former Vietnamese political prisoners. Based in Westminster, it is one of the groups that are preparing to help survivors of the re-education camps.
Another group, the Association of Families of Political Prisoners, is headed by Khuc Minh Tho, the wife of Colonel Be, a Government clerical worker with two children and a woman with a keen sense of the difficulties that some of the released men will be facing.
In his first letter after his release, she said, her husband asked the question that was on the minds of most of his fellow prisoners: Have you been faithful to me? Are you still waiting for me?
Some of the wives she knows here, Mrs. Tho said, have found new mates. ''They tell me, 'I don't think the prisoners will ever get out of the camps,' '' she said. ''They tell me they give up.''
Even now, women like Mrs. Tho cannot be certain whether their husbands will be allowed to leave the country or will be held back by the capriciousness that has marked refugee releases in the past.
''I pray,'' Mrs. Tho said, ''that he will be one of the lucky ones.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; POLITICAL PRISONERS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REFUGEES (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH



357 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Who Are the Refugees, And Who's Going to Pay?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IN 1980, when Congress established a comprehensive policy on refugees, there was widespread agreement that the Federal Government should pay for their resettlement because the decision to admit them was made entirely by Federal officials. But that consensus is coming under severe strain as the Federal Government cuts payments for refugees' health, education and welfare expenses.
State officials say they can no longer guarantee that the refugee resettlement program will be as successful as it has been for more than a decade. And it has been successful, producing high school valedictorians, college graduates, taxpayers and hundreds of entrepreneurs in such places as Orange County, Calif., and Arlington County, Va. 
''The majority of refugees currently being resettled have much greater needs than those refugees resettled in the past,'' said Ron Spendal, the Oregon state refugee coordinator, who serves as a spokesman for the National Governors Association on the issue.
''The first wave of refugees who came out of Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos were the doctors, lawyers, politicians and military leaders,'' Mr. Spendal said. ''They were highly educated, often spoke English and were easily assimilated. The refugees coming out of Southeast Asia now are farmers and fishermen with much less education, few vocational skills and little English.''
Many of the new Soviet Jewish emigres are well-educated by Soviet standards. But that does not mean it is easy for them to find jobs. Soviet doctors, for example, may need to be retrained as X-ray technicians or physical therapists.
Since 1975, about 1.3 million people have entered the United States as refugees, according to the State Department. Of that total, more than 857,000 were from Indochina. In the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, the Bush Administration plans to admit 125,000 refugees, including 50,000 from the Soviet Union, 6,500 from Eastern Europe, 51,500 from East and Southeast Asia, 6,500 from the Near East and South Asia, 3,000 from Africa and 3,500 from Latin America.
The number of refugees is set annually by the President after consultation with Congress. Federal law does not specify the criteria, except to say the President should weigh ''humanitarian concerns'' and ''the national interest.'' Fiscal constraints limit admissions, even as political, ethnic and religious groups lobby for more.
The quotas are completely separate from those for regular immigrants, who get visas on the basis of family ties or job skills. Under the Refugee Act of 1980, a refugee is a person with ''a well-founded fear of persecution.''
A principal goal of the law is to help refugees achieve economic self-sufficiency quickly. The Federal Government and the states provide services including medical assistance, job training and instruction in the English language. Most refugees arrive with no financial resources.
 
Waning Federal Funds
From early 1980 through March of 1981, the Federal Government reimbursed the states for all cash and medical assistance given to refugees. Starting in April 1981, the Federal Government limited such payments to a refugee's first 36 months in the United States. In March 1986, Washington cut the reimbursement period to 31 months, and in February 1988 to 24 months.
For the current fiscal year, President Bush proposed to cut the reimbursement period to 15 months. Now Congress is providing money for only 12 months. While planning to admit 125,000 refugees, Mr. Bush acknowledged that his budget would pay for the resettlement of only 84,000, at an average cost of $6,300 each. He did not say where the extra money might be found.
Philip A. Holman, acting director of the Federal Office of Refugee Resettlement, in the Department of Health and Human Services, said the cutbacks did not affect refugees because they were entitled to the same cash and medical benefits. The main difference, he said, is that the states pay a larger share.
Walter Barnes, chief of refugee programs in the California Department of Social Services, said: ''These cuts show the inability or unwillingness of Congress and the Administration to meet the commitments laid out in the Refugee Act of 1980. The constant eating away at resources is, I'm afraid, going to eat away public support for the refugee program.''
 
Destination: California
California took 45 percent of the 76,391 refugees who came to the United States in the fiscal year 1988. New York, with 10 percent, accounted for the next largest share, followed by Florida, Massachusetts and Texas.
Experts warn that the cuts in assistance may increase welfare dependency rates by depriving newcomers of the aid they need to become productive workers. Already the rates are substantial: 52 percent of refugees who have been in the United States for less than two years are receiving some form of cash assistance. (Rates ranged from 14 percent for Poles to 40 percent for Soviet refugees and more than 60 percent for Afghans.) Stephen Moore, an economist at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said: ''As with immigrants generally, refugees tend to be strong contributors to the U.S. economy. They have low incomes and high rates of dependency in their initial years in this country. But after 5 to 10 years, their earnings increase substantially.''
Tax data show that Indochinese refugees who arrived in 1975 had incomes slightly higher than the national median by 1986, the Department of Health and Human Services said.
In view of such data, some members of Congress say that refugees should be required to pay back, after some years, a portion of the money spent on their resettlement. By taking that step, said Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, ''we could take in more refugees.''

GRAPHIC: Nicaraguan applicants for refugee status being interviewed by officials in Miami (Matrix/Alex Quesada); graph of U.S. ceilings on refugee admissions by region of origin for fiscal 1990 (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (76%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (75%); LATIN AMERICA (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (57%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; FINANCES; STATES (US) REFUGEES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LOBBYING (78%); MEDICAID (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (74%); GOVERNORS (71%); CLASS RANKING (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); RELIGION (65%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT



358 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Congress Takes New Interest in the Airline Business

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE years since deregulation of the airlines in 1978 have seen cut-rate fares and high-priced mergers, frequent flyer bonuses and aggravating delays, a doubling of flights and a hopscotch system of traveling along hub-and-spoke routes. For better or worse, the change has never come so fast as this year, leading the Secretary of Transporation, Samuel K. Skinner, to state the obvious: ''What we know as the airline industry today will be dramatically different 10 to 20 years from now.''
That leaves Mr. Skinner, and others in the Federal Government, debating whether the changes should be shaped by the marketplace or managed by Washington - in a word, reregulated. It is clear where the Bush Administration stands. 
''Deregulation is an important part of the economy,'' Mr. Skinner said at an industry gathering last week. ''We are not here to talk about reregulation. That is not on the board for the Bush Administration.''
But on Capitol Hill, meanwhile, some members of Congress appeared bent on bringing the industry under tighter Government control. Although none of their proposals would return the industry to the days when routes, schedules and fares were dictated by the Federal Government, the new ideas represent a tightening of the reins on an industry that for 10 years has been free to do just about what it pleased.
Leaders of the House Public Works and Transportation Committee introduced legislation meant to strengthen the role of the Transportation Department in reviewing leveraged buyouts of airlines, such as the recently proposed takeover of United Airlines. The Senate is considering a similar bill allowing the department to disapprove proposed airline takeovers.
Republican Senators Jack Danforth of Missouri and John McCain of Arizona have introduced separate legislation that addresses the increasing concentration of airline business. Their bill would force airlines to sell off highly profitable computerized reservation systems, which help the airlines that own them to increase their share of the market. The bill would also allow the Transportation Department to grant competing airlines access to airports where one or two companies dominate passenger service.
The recent flurry of leveraged buyouts - takeovers financed mainly with borrowed money - is closely linked, in the eyes of some lawmakers and regulators, to the increasing consolidation of the industry. Two heavily indebted airlines, Eastern and Braniff, have gone bankrupt this year. Others could go under in the event of a recession in the next few years, some analysts believe. And every bankruptcy means a little less competition to hold prices down. Although economists say that airline prices generally have been held down where deregulation has increased competition, the evidence shows that where there is little competition, ticket prices, measured in airline revenues per mile, are higher than average.
Even as the legislative effort to control the industry's metamorphosis procedes, the Transportation Department is rushing to complete a study of airline concentration and competition by Jan. 1.
Jeffrey N. Shane, assistant secretary of transportation for policy, views some of the industry's trends as disturbing. Department statistics show that in 1988, the 10 largest airlines accounted for 94 percent of the miles traveled by domestic passengers, compared with 78 percent in 1984. Also in 1988, 90 percent of the industry's traffic was carried by just 8 carriers, down from 15 airlines five years earlier. And at 20 of the 27 largest ''hub'' airports, where many flights connect, two airlines control more than half of all flights.
On the other hand, Mr. Shane said, most of the growth in air travel since deregulation has been along routes where passengers are able to choose among at least three airlines. The problem, he said, is that airlines prefer to expand service in cities where they already dominate the market, rather than competing for new territory. This strategy, he said, ''strongly suggests'' that the creation of new competition ''will be the exception rather than the rule.''
In the five years after airline deregulation was enacted in 1978, dozens of new airlines opened shop. In the past five years, most of them went bankrupt or were merged into larger airlines. Experts say that easing the entry of new competitors into the marketplace will require changes in arcane industry practices and fine points of law. At many airports, for example, the airlines' leases preclude airport operators from permitting new competitors to use the airport. Some experts believe that if airports were allowed to charge passengers departure fees, now prohibited on domestic flights, the operators would be less dependent on rental income from airlines and able to demand the right to grant gate space to competing airlines.
Many industry experts fear that unless the capacity of the air transportation system is increased, new competitors will be frozen out. But they are in no hurry for Washington's help. As Oris W. Dunham, Jr., the executive director of Dallas/ Fort Worth International Airport, puts it: ''There are two things everyone agrees on: No. 1, the system isn't working the way it is; No. 2., we don't want Congress to fix it for us.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION DEREGULATION (95%); AIRLINES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); MERGERS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIR FARES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); TICKET SALES (64%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR JOHN MCCAIN (53%); 



359 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
An Energy Glut in the Ground Imperils Ecological Hopes

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
FOSSIL fuel reserves, almost always discussed with the modifier ''dwindling'' attached, are now growing rapidly. The conventional wisdom of the 1970's was that the world was running out of oil, coal and natural gas. But in the last three years governments and the companies that do the drilling and mining have found far more than has been extracted.
This is not unalloyed good news. Combustion of fuel is the main source of carbon dioxide and other gases believed responsible for global warming, and with current price and supply trends, carbon dioxide emissions could rise by 70 percent between 1985 and 2020, according to a study released by the World Energy Conference, a London-based association of energy engineers, at its convention last month in Montreal. 
Scarcity and high price, once in everyone's forecast, now seem less likely to limit consumption. It looks now as though any incentives to reduce fuel use, thus slowing the greenhouse effect or cutting air pollution, will have to come from governments, not the marketplace.
 
Political Factors
Prices are likely to rise, especially as more of the oil supply is concentrated in OPEC countries. But short-term price increases work against long-term price increases; they quickly dampen demand and increase the incentive to find more oil, gas and coal, which tends to bring prices back down.
In addition, oil is equated with political power in locations as diverse as Texas and Teheran, and governments in both places will look for more oil for reasons other than economic.
According to a survey by the energy conference, the quantity of ''proved recoverable'' oil reserves -the amount of oil in the ground estimated to be recoverable under existing price levels and technology - is up by 30 percent over the last three years to about 890 billion barrels. Even more striking is the reversal in the years of supply remaining, up from 28.2 in 1979 to more than 45, according to Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting company in Cambridge, Mass.
The increase in the number of years of supply represented by the reserves is only partly the product of growing reserves; the other factor is a slowing in demand caused by higher prices and conservation efforts. When prices peaked in 1983, demand dropped to 19.2 billion barrels from 22.9 billion barrels in 1979, a decrease of 16 percent.
Consumption will be back up near the 1979 peak this year because of stable prices and strong economic growth, especially in Asia, according to the Cambridge group. But the fact that consumption has ceased galloping ahead at ever-higher levels has increased the number of years existing supplies will last.
All this ''new'' oil in the ground is of little consolation to the United States. Last year, according to a study by Arthur Andersen & Company, oil companies in this country found only a bit more than half as much oil as they pumped out of the ground. Over the long term they obviously must find as much oil as they produce, or eventually they will have nothing left to drill for.
Production in the continental United States and Alaska is falling by about 7 percent a year. Imports in some months have exceeded domestic production, something that hasn't happened in nearly a decade. The bulk of the additions to reserves, meanwhile, were in Iran, Iraq, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela, all members of OPEC, and three of them in the Persian Gulf.
The growing OPEC reserves are not a reflection of geology but of politics. Cash-hungry OPEC members are forever arguing over the quota of oil they are allowed to pump each year, and one negotiating card the member countries bring to the table is the ratio of their production to their reserves. The bigger their known supplies underground, the stronger the argument they can make that they deserve to be allowed to produce more.
Iran and Iraq, until recently rivals on the battlefield and now competitors in OPEC, would each like more income to rebuild their economies. So Iran added 48 billion barrels to its estimate, and Iraq, 56 billion. The United Arab Emirates, which habitually produces more than its assigned quota, added 66 billion. These countries have always known that if they spent more money on exploration, they could increase proven reserves, but with decades or centuries of future supply in the ground, there was not much need to look.
Meanwhile, reserves of natural gas, once thought to be even more limited than oil, are doubling every 10 years, according to the World Energy Conference. Gas requires greater capital investment to transport, and is hard to move at all by sea unless prices rise above a certain level. Thus it is not as widely traded as oil, though that seems likely to change.
 
Low-Profile Fuels
But as with oil the news does not favor the United States. The Soviet Union's reserves are estimated at 1.5 million billion cubic feet, followed by Iran with about one-third as much, and then the United Arab Emirates and the United States, each with about one-seventh as much as the Soviets, or about 200,000 billion cubic feet.
Coal, like natural gas, is a lower-profile fuel because it can be used in fewer applications and is not traded as widely. But reserves of coal are up an astounding 80 percent in the last three years, according to the World Energy Conference, to nearly 1.1 trillion tons. The study traced most of the increase to China, which is planning a large industrialization drive. China says it has 610 billion tons; the United States, 113 billion, and the Soviet Union, 104 billion.
With growing concern about the greenhouse effect, word that supplies of fossil fuels are ample is a bit like telling a person who is dangerously overweight that the refrigerator is fully stocked. At the end of the 1970's and early 1980's, when oil was $40 a barrel and some analysts said it would reach $100 by the end of the century, the energy problem looked as though it might be self-correcting; as the price rose, oil use would be replaced by nuclear or solar power or conservation. In recent years, however, oil prices have been so low that even natural gas has had trouble competing; nuclear power has largely priced itself out of the market, and solar power, down in cost by a factor of 10, is still too expensive for most uses.
More exotic technologies, like hydrogen, wind or ocean thermal energy, have been driven into the background. When the idea of scarcity allowed the price of fossil fuels to rise, those alternatives were aiming for targets that were getting closer. When prices fell, the targets got farther away.

GRAPHIC: graphs of proved recoverable reserves, production and number of years that current reserves would last at current rate of production, oil vs. gas, 1976-1989 (Source: Cambridge Energy Research Associates); graphs show share of proved reserves of oil, gas and coal by country/region (Source: World Energy Conference)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (64%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN (50%); 

COMPANY: IHS INC (64%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (60%); ASSOCIATION OF ENERGY ENGINEERS (56%); ASSOCIATION OF ENERGY ENGINEERS (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER; AIR POLLUTION; SHORTAGES; RESERVES (NATURAL RESOURCES) ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (79%); EMISSIONS (79%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); AIR QUALITY (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); POLITICS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L



360 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 16, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
Parley in the Foothills

BYLINE: BY WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
THE >SUMMIT USED to be 'way up there, at the top, the peak, the zenith. From the Latin >summus, ''highest,'' the word offered a view that was breathtaking.
Winston Churchill was displeased in 1950 at what his friend Bernard Baruch called >the Cold War (coinage claimed by Walter Lippmann but actually made by the Baruch speechwriter Herbert Bayard Swope). The British statesman recalled the cordial wartime meetings he had with Roosevelt and Stalin, and called for a ''parley at the summit.'' Such a top-level meeting of a few leaders, he said, would better bridge the international gap than a gathering of ''hordes of experts and officials drawn up in a vast cumbrous array.'' 
So started >summit in diplolingo, followed in the late 1950's by >summitry (on the analogy of >telemetry) and >summiteer (on the analogy of >pamphleteer and >profiteer). For more than a generation, this coinage and its derivatives held the definition to a meeting at the very top; with currency, however, the Churchillian coin has been debased.
President Bush has just met with the nation's governors for what was billed as an >education summit; schoolchildren from Gorky held what Tass designated a >youth summit; last year, President Reagan and Congressional leaders held hands at what was labeled an >economic summit to reduce the deficit; then delegations from New York and New Jersey met at the World Trade Center in Manhattan for what they insisted was a >regional economic summit.
If a bunch of guys from neighboring states can call their subway series a >summit, anything goes: conservationists in conclave call their motel brunch an >environmental summit, and in the competition between Sony and Philips, Newsday reported: ''Both the hardware and software people have discussed a possible 'summit' meeting later this winter to talk about alternatives to the Copycode technology.''
We are reaching the point where you can hold a summit of nobodies in the basement. (>Basements, by the way, have disappeared, along with >cellars; these glitzy temples are now >lower levels, >ground floors and >underground colonnades.) With the zing gone out of a parley at the summit, what's a poor Sherpa to do? >Apex sounds like a foaming cleanser; >apogee is too often confused with >apology and >acme with >acne; >crest is toothpaste and >zenith a laptop; >crown is too royal; >vertex would be good, the highest point (which is properly the turning point), but it would get spun into the middle of >vortex. >Big Two would offend multipolar bears and be derided as >Big Toe. >Pinnacle sounds too much like a card game.
How can the language cope with the lowering of >summit? Same way, I suppose, that it did with the diminution of >stars and >great powers: we now speak of >superstars and >superpowers.
You clerks, drawn up in vast cumbrous array, can have your piddling little summit down the hall; I'll see the other world leader at the >supersummit.
 
 Account of No Account
ACCUSED BY MOSCOW, AND BY some American political figures, of failing to respond adequately to Soviet arms-reduction overtures, President Bush protested with a revealing figure of speech: ''I think our handling of the Soviet account is pretty good.''
Mr. Bush never served as an account executive in an advertising agency. He did, however, serve as Director of Central Intelligence, and from that experience drew his >Soviet account trope.
People who work for our Central Intelligence Agency refer to the organization as >the Agency, or >Langley, the Virginia town in which its headquarters are said to be situated, or >the Company. From this last appellation (used as a title of a 1976 novel by John Ehrlichman) comes the extension of the business metaphor.
Daniel Schorr, when staking out the home of James Jesus Angleton for CBS in 1974, was invited inside by the counterintelligence chief. The orchid-growing counterspymaster, known within the Company as ''Mother,'' picked up a phone during his interview and said, ''Shalom,'' the Hebrew greeting meaning ''peace.'' When the correspondent asked him why he had used that word, Mr. Angleton replied, ''I have for a long time handled the Israeli account.''
Did this use of >account stem from >the Company? I checked with Richard Helms, a former Director of Central Intelligence, who was present at the creation of much spookspeak; he admits that connection may exist, but thinks that the sense of >account to mean ''assignment'' came from advertising and may have been brought to intelligence by a former adman. ''I used to be an ad salesman myself,'' he added, ''for Scripps Howard.''
The term >account, meaning ''area of responsibility,'' has evidently stuck in the President's mind. We tend to forget he was once a spook, and that the old lingo lingers to pop up later in life.
 
How's That Again?
SALLY QUINN, THE WASHING-ton novelist, keeps an ear tuned to localisms. (She was the first to spot >sneaker, a Waspism for ''secret yen.'') The latest locution she's heard on the Georgetown-to-the-Hamptons circuit is >vuja de, pronounced voo-zhah day. It means ''the eerie sense that you never want to be in this place again.''
 
Mavenhood Spreading
THE LANGUAGE DODGE IS booming. Here is proof - hard, commercial data - that the market for etymology, usage, style and grammar is burgeoning (in that word's two senses of ''increasing'' and ''blooming'').
James J. Kilpatrick, who invented the conservative syndicated column, is also the author of ''The Writer's Art'' each week. Watch for Kilpo's annual review of crotchets: misuse of >partially when >partly is intended, and substitution of >like for >such as.
A regular feature titled ''Glossary'' appears in The Boston Globe, written by Michael Kenney. Columnist Jack Smith has long commanded the language in The Los Angeles Times. Humorist Dave Barry writes an irregular ''Ask Mr. Language Person'' in The Washington Post Magazine, and recently reported a new sense to >per se: ''if you catch my drift.''
In The Atlantic Monthly, lexicographer Anne H. Soukhanov's word-watching alternates with Craig M. Carver's etymologies from the Dictionary of American Regional English (Anne came up with a slang interjection, >quux, an expression of mild disgust used by hackers). Bar journals and legal newspapers have been running regular features on legalese, as lawyers are learning that solecisms are at least as serious as torts.
Jeffrey McQuain, the educator who researches this column (and is, of course, solely responsible for all errors), has launched his own daily word column, ''Our Language,'' distributed by United Media's Newspaper Enterprise Association, in which he provides catchy definitions, answers reader questions on grammar and usage, and offers ''ad-vice'' to errant copywriters.
A. P. Newsfeatures distributes ''Word for Word,'' an etymological cartoon strip by Australia's Michael Atchison; I never knew that >ice cream sundae came about as soda-parlor operators circumvented laws against selling flavored sodas on the Sabbath.
Read 'em all, wherever you are; instead of bemoaning the state of language, dive into the pool of language mavens. We'd have a convention, but everybody is afraid to make the first speech.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: NEWSDAY INC (82%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); CARD GAMES (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); GOVERNORS (66%); CHILDREN (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (63%); ACNE (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM RONALD REAGAN (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



361 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 24, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 5295 words

HEADLINE: Confessions of A White House Speechwriter

BYLINE: By Peggy Noonan; Peggy Noonan was a producer at CBS News before becoming a speechwriter for Ronald Reagan and George Bush. She is now a writer living in New York. This article is an excerpt from her book ''What I Saw at the Revolution,'' to be published in January by Random House Inc.

 BODY:
I FIRST SAW HIM AS A FOOT, a highly polished brown cordovan wagging merrily on a hassock. I spied it through the door. It was a beautiful foot, sleek, perfectly shaped. Such casual elegance and clean lines! But not a big foot, not formidable, maybe even a little . . . frail. I imagined cradling it in my arms, protecting it from un-smooth roads.
I was yanked from my reverie by the movement of an aide, who bent past the foot and murmured, ''You're in luck, Mr. President. The meeting with the speechwriters is canceled.'' The foot stopped, then wagged more merrily still. Talk and light laughter. Someone closed the door.
I was supposed to have met the boss, after two months writing speeches for him. Along with a few of the speechwriters, I had waited in a room outside the Oval Office and everything was fine until an official from the National Security Council walked in and saw a speechwriter with whom he didn't get along. ''I'm not going to a meeting where I'm on an equal footing with him,'' I heard him say as he huffed down the hall. The meeting was canceled. Dick Darman, to whom the speechwriting department reported, said, ''Sorry, but that's the way it goes. Another time.'' 
Anyway, I'd seen his foot. At least I'd have a story for my friends.
I HAD JOINED THE WHITE HOUSE EARLY IN 1984, after three years writing Dan Rather's radio commentaries. CBS News isn't exactly a garden where they grow Reagan speechwriters, but that didn't work against me. When conservatives came through the newsroom for interviews, a technician or editor would always bring them by to meet me, as if to say, ''See, we have one too.''
That's how I met an editor of William Buckley's National Review and told him of my longing to write for the President whose views I shared. He passed my name along to Ben Elliott, head of the White House speechwriting department, who, long ago and far away, had himself worked at CBS. He asked me to come in and talk. In February, on the day of the New Hampshire primary, he offered me a job.
Joining the Reagan White House as a speechwriter was like joining CBS in radio. Right church, wrong pew; right company, wrong division. There was an odd and general feeling about the speechwriters, one that was expressed in a slight snicker. Perhaps it was the snicker the guys in the plant reserve for the public relations types who float through now and then, a snicker that says: You're part of the wind machine while we do the real work on the assembly line!
At first I decided that part of the problem was the speechwriters' comportment, because they tended to be sadsacks and complain, and resentment isn't a magnetic personal style. But in time I came to a different conclusion. The snickers were a kind of protective reaction. In a White House so dependent on rhetoric, the people around the President - and their secretaries and the secretaries' friends down the hall - came to see it as an act of loyalty to the President to dismiss the people who wrote the script.
WHAT I REMEMBER FROM MY FIRST DAYS at work was walking the high marble hallways and tall cool stairs of the Old Executive Office Building. An aide told me, ''When they're new they walk right down the middle; when they've been here awhile they hug the walls.'' He was right.
The E.O.B. is part of the White House complex, within the gate but separated from the West Wing by a short street called West Executive Avenue. Most of the White House offices were in the E.O.B., and people who worked there called it - the White House.
I was introduced to the staff. ''Peggy is from CBS, where she worked with Dan Rather, and their show was nominated for many awards -'' ''The Lenin Prize!'' said a bearded speechwriter. ''Now, Dana,'' said Ben.
''Ben, when are we going to see the President again?'' he said. ''It would really help us to meet with him and hear what he's thinking about.'' ''I know, Dana,'' Ben said. ''How long is it since you met with him?'' I asked. ''More than a year.'' ''It's more than a year since you saw the President?''
''Well, since we met. We see him all the time. We wave to him.''
They gave me a little office that faced a courtyard that never got the sun. I could look out and see the exhaust system of the E.O.B. An old radiator hissed forlornly, carrying into my office metallic rumblings from the deepest insides of the old Victorian building. It was dank and clanked; it smelled like history. I loved that funny office. I used to sit there in the late afternoon in a red velveteen chair and read the papers of the Presidency in the glow of an old lamp. In the White House they keep big, thick volumes of the Presidents' speeches, utterances and meetings with the press. I'd take a few volumes from the library upstairs and read them at random. Soon I realized what I was looking for: the grammar of the Presidency, the sound and tone and tense of it. And then I knew exactly where to go: to the modern President who had sounded most like a President, the one who set the standard for how the rest should sound. I went to F.D.R.
I had read about Roosevelt over the years and knew he liked the poem ''Invictus'' - ''I am the master of my fate/I am the captain of my soul'' -and saw now that he had absorbed its victorious rhythm so that it had become his own triumphant cadence, a sound that echoed not only in his speeches but even in his recorded conversation.
I'd think: this is how Reagan should sound.
IT WAS HARD FOR ME TO MAKE FRIENDS. Not that people weren't nice - they were - but we led different lives. The men and women my age (I was in my early 30's) were not like New York people. They were married and had two little children; they had such settled lives! And I was shy, and when I am shy I look impassive and when I look impassive I look formidable, and some people were shy with me.
It was a daily challenge for me to walk into the mess by myself. Young men would look up, impassive, and look down and continue to chew. Women would look up, nod pertly and look down and chew. But mostly there were men, men in suits, and when they gestured the light caught their Presidential cufflinks. In time I forced myself to go, unaccompanied, to the big, round staff table where those without lunch partners sat.
I would listen, thinking, ''This is like a tutorial, a movable tutorial that never stops. These people are like the bright, intense people in college who couldn't stop talking about Hawthorne and Tennyson and the Lake Poets.'' Only the topic was public policy, and there was a freshness to it.
It was the authentic sound of the Reagan revolution, buzzing around me.
''Peg, hi, Mike Horowitz, O.M.B! Heard all about ya, welcome!'' He turns back to the men, throws his arm over a chair. ''Now the thing we have to keep in mind in welfare reform is the 14-year-old kid in the inner city who has been unwittingly encouraged by this great lumbering Government of ours to take steps in her life that are ultimately harmful to her. She's had a baby she's not equipped to care for, she's just made her mother a grandmother at the age of 30, she's stuck now without an education, without options, with no particular promise. She has been used and abused by the very system created to help her! And who will speak for her? No one, because precious few in this debate care about anything but the biases and demands of their own constituencies. Thus: stasis. Pass the ketchup!''
''Yes,'' says Doug Holladay of Office of Public Liaison, ''you're right, but that gets us back at least in part to values and the role they play. And that brings up the delicate question of how to bring back and encourage the values that all of us, black and white, lived by in this country for generations, for centuries.''
''But without being labeled irrelevant to the debate or sentimental about a past that never was,'' says Judi Buckalew, also of O.P.L.
''Let me fill you in on what's happening in our sincere if admittedly at this point inadequate attempts to overhaul and improve our farm program and see if you can't draw some surprising parallels,'' offers Fred Khedouri of O.M.B.
''Wait, here's Lenczowski,'' says Horowitz, motioning toward an N.S.C. staffer. ''John, that statement of yours that a lot of the people pushing right now for an arms agreement must just love signing ceremonies because without a seri-(Continued on Page 66) ous commitment to verification it's all a charade was just . . . super! Fred, go ahead.''
It was music to my ears. All these intelligent, well-motivated people talking about important things and trying to understand America.
LITTLE BY LITTLE I settled in. There were times when I thought that I was viewed as . . . a little different. Not quite an oddball, not quite a strange one, not quite a walking occasion of sin, but those phrases came into my mind. A secretary told me, ''You dress different.'' I was at that time partial to long black skirts and soft black boots. ''That's not so bad,'' she said, ''but everybody here at your particular level wears suits with a sort of man-tailored blouse and a scarf or a tie. But what's really different is your hair. You have this long, free-flowing hair. Most of us have shorter, neater hair.''
Another young woman took me aside and said, ''I heard you had wine in the mess.'' ''Yeah.'' ''And smoked cigarettes.''
''Oh, yeah. It was my friend's birthday and we were celebrating and I guess we stayed too long. Was it . . . sort of noticed?'' ''I heard about it.'' ''Was it disapproved?''
''Well . . . it wasn't considered average.''
What was considered average?
I went to lunch with a man I met at a brunch, a lobbyist for a big insurance consortium. ''The Carter folks used to hang out at a bar on Pennsylvania Avenue called Sarsfield's,'' he told me. ''It was wild, it was a zoo. Sunday was the big night. All the bartenders and waitresses from around town would go there to drink and the Carter people would show and there'd be fights in this corner and heavy drinking over there. It was wild those days.''
''Is there a Reagan hangout?'' ''Nope.'' ''I didn't think so. You know, no one has ever said to me after work, Let's go for a beer or a cup of coffee. At CBS, people were always going out. Here there's nothing. I think they go home and they fall asleep at 11:03 and get up at 5:45 and go jogging and then they eat cereal with the kids and correct their homework at the table and come in at 7:15 with their briefcases and say, 'Good morning, what can we do to advance traditional values today!' ''
MY FIRST SPEECH was what former speechwriters have called Rose Garden Rubbish, though I never heard that phrase in my years at the White House. It was a Rose Garden appearance in which the President was to announce and praise the teacher of the year. You would think this would be easy: praise teaching, announce the winner, praise her and that's it, neat and nice, five minutes. But it was my first speech, so I included a defense of the West and an analysis of Bloomsbury's contribution to Keynesian notions of expediency as illustrated in the famous saying ''In the long run we're all dead.'' It ran a little long.
I got my information on who the teacher was and what we should say from a researcher who got it from the advance office. I got my advice on the tone from Ben - don't go too long, because it's hot in the Rose Garden and he's standing in the sun and reading from cards and that's not his best read. It's an annual speech -ask research for copies of what he's said in the past. ''And remember, it always has to be positive with him. Never 'I'll never forget,' always 'I'll always remember.' ''
I listened, I tried, I froze. The President would be saying these words! They were history! (They would go in the books!) Ben had said: If you get in a bind, call Bill Bennett at the National Endowment for the Humanities, he's brilliant and he really cares about teaching.
I called his office. He called me back from an airport. ''I'm a new speechwriter for the President,'' I said, ''and I need some help. The subject is teachers. He's announcing the teacher of the year. I hate to bother you, but - '' ''When do you need it?'' ''Now.''
''Oh, nice to have time. O.K.: 'A Man for All Seasons,' Sir Thomas More's speech to Richard Rich. Rich is a bright young man not sure of his future. More tells him, 'Be a teacher.' Rich says, 'And if I'm a great teacher, who will know it?' More says, 'You, your students, God. Not a bad audience, that.' Or words to that effect. Beautiful speech, and true. Look it up, gotta go, bye.''
I used it. The President, to my pride and disappointment, did not change a word.
The day of the ceremony I went to the Rose Garden. It was a warm, humid day in April, and the sun was strong. The press was gathered in front, looking around, scoping the joint. Their eyes never stop: Who's that talking to Deaver, who's with Baker? I stood in the back behind a row of chairs.
The President bounded out of the Oval Ofice into the sunlight and stood at a lectern on the grass. He cleared his throat. ''Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.''
It was him. I began to pace back and forth. In a jerky way. I began to swallow, and wet my lips. It was so exciting to finally see him saying my words written on my typewriter with my hands. I looked up at the roof and saw the little window where Caroline Kennedy looked out when her father honored the astronauts. I looked at the Colonnade. I looked at the grass, my shoes. I looked at - the Secret Servicemen, who were looking back. They stared at me, blank-faced and ready. One of them was walking toward me.
''Would you like to sit, miss?''
''Oh, no, not really. I'm not a guest, I mean, I'm not supposed to be in the audience, I'm not supposed to be here, I'm. . . .'' ''Who are you, please?'' ''Oh, I'm the new speechwriter. I wrote this and I'm nervous, that's why I'm pacing, I'm sorry, would you like me to leave?''
''No,'' he said, nodding, his tongue pressing against his check. ''It's alright. As you were. Proceed.''
FIRST BIG STUPID THING I DID One day, I got a call I didn't want. Jim Rosebush, the First Lady's chief of staff, wanted me to come over to the East Wing to work on a speech for Mrs. Reagan.
I went to Ben. ''I mean no offense, but we settled this before I came. If I were a man I could write for her, but as a woman they'll say I'm the First Lady's speechwriter who now and then does a speech for the President.''
Ben sighed. ''I knew this would happen. I told them you're not here for that.''
''Can we do anything?'' ''She's upset because she doesn't like her speeches. She doesn't think Peter's stuff is muscular enough.''
''Well, I'm a girl and I'm not muscular enough, either. Girls are sissies and don't use verbs.''
''Nice try. Look, do it this once and if he asks again I'll take care of it.''
I wrote a nice bad speech, so sugary you had to lick your fingers afterward. ''My life didn't begin until I met Ronnie.'' ''I can tell you as a mother that nothing, nothing is as important as the welfare of a child.'' The kid didn't miss a cliche. Peter, the speechwriter she'd rejected, offered hopefully, ''When she talks about drugs she likes to say things like 'The things I've seen would make the strongest heart break.' ''
I figured if Peter wrote that and she didn't like his work, I should write it too.
I sent it in. Rosebush called. ''Congratulations,'' he said, ''she loved it!''
A week later he asked that I ''polish up'' another speech. I went to Ben. ''There's nothing wrong with helping out a little,'' he said. A week later Rosebush called.
''I want you to write another speech.''
I said I'd have to check that out. He said, ''I'm sure there's no problem, the President's speechwriters write for the First Lady. She is the First Lady of the country, you know.'' I said, ''I know, but I came down here to write for the President and -''
''Well, if you think you're too good - ''
''No, no, but I just want to write for the President.'' ''Well, we'll see.'' A moment later Ben called. ''Go.'' I called Rosebush's office and offered to come over. He asked exactly when I'd be there. Ten minutes, I said. No, make it 20, he said. O.K., 20. Twenty on the dot, he said. He offered me a seat and proceeded to talk about the weather and politics and how did I like it here. Odd, I thought, this busy man killing time. Mike Deaver walked in. ''What's all this about?'' he said with a scowl as he threw his briefcase onto a chair.
''This is Peggy Noonan,'' said Rosebush, ''who is refusing to write speeches for the First Lady.'' ''Urrgh,'' I said, choking. ''We need her help, but she doesn't want to help us.'' Deaver looked at me. ''Mr. Deaver,'' I said, ''I don't want to be unhelpful, but I joined up here a few weeks ago to write for the President. I'm sure the First Lady is going to be very important to the campaign and I'm sure she'll have a lot of speaking engagements and - and I think she'll need a lot of help. But I can't do it because that's not why I came here.''
Deaver looked at me. ''Well, I don't think we're going to settle this here,'' he said. ''We'll work this out later. Jim, since I'm here, let's finish our talk about -''
I gathered my papers and ran. ''I have to get a speech to the President,'' I said over my shoulder at Rosebush, who was making little pyramids with his hands and tapping them together. I made a decision. I was not going to become the First Lady's speechwriter and I was not going to keep worrying about it. I called Darman. This is important, I said. He chuckled and told me to come by.
I told him what had happened. ''I'm going to have to leave here and go back to New York and my nice job writing for CBS News unless we settle this and I must tell you I can't settle it by agreeing to write the First Lady's speeches. I asked Ben before I came here and he promised I wouldn't have to do it, I was worried about it from the beginning because I'm a woman and -''
''You're not going to write the First Lady's speeches. It will be taken care of. Any other problems?'' I was taken aback, and a little disappointed. Here I was all wound up. I wanted to have to insist. ''No.'' ''Are we enjoying our job?''
''We are coming to terms with the facts of our employment.'' ''I'm pleased. Do come again.'' ''Thank you, it's been a pleasure.'' ''Me too.'' A few days later I passed Rosebush and a few of his assistants as I walked along looking at the portraits of the First Ladies in the part of the White House known as the residence. ''Will you be coming by soon?'' he asked brightly.
''No!'' I said brightly. ''I will not! Talk to Dick Darman! Thank you! Thank you! Goodbye!'' I kept walking.
What I should have done, of course, was act very friendly and explain with some pain that I'm just unable to do it, Jim, but if there's ever anything else I can do for you . . . Or I should have said I was eager to help but Dick and Ben wouldn't free me up, the election, I'm working so hard. Instead I did a very un-Washington thing: I showed joy in my victory. Rosebush scowled. His assistant scowled. I had made enemies. I didn't care. I have asked myself since: if I knew then that the First Lady was the major and decisive force she was in that White House would I still have rejected the call to write for her? And the answer, I think, is yes.
A few weeks later I was walking through the East Wing when I saw the First Lady and her entourage coming my way. I'd never met her and didn't know if I was supposed to look at her and make eye contact and say hello or leave her to her privacy, of which she'd not had much these many years. I decided to look to see if I could see anything interesting in her eyes. She looked at me in a way that seemed to have no meaning. Then she looked down at what I was wearing, which was, unfortunately, a wrinkled khaki skirt and a blue work shirt and heavy walking shoes with white woolen socks. Not exactly White House issue, but I was going walking. She looked me up and down and I swear her mouth curled. She looked away and said something to an aide. The next time I saw her coming I hid behind a pillar.
 
SECOND BIG STUPID THING I DID
I was invited to the mess to have lunch with Maureen Reagan. I think Nancy Risque in the Congressional Affairs office arranged it. I got there late. Maureen was already there, with two assistants. Her face was like the face of Bette Davis in ''Elizabeth the Queen'' when Errol Flynn did something impertinent. I couldn't think of any good conversation. She did not appear to be attempting to think of any. At one point someone mentioned the board game ''Trivial Pursuit'' and I piped up that I'd heard the Canadian version was better. There was silence as I remembered what I'd read about the Canadian version in yesterday's paper. Unlike the American version, it contained the question ''How many months after their marriage was Ronald and Nancy Reagan's daughter Patty born?''
The phone rang. Saved by the bell. A steward plugged in a phone and murmured to Miss Reagan. ''Mr. Baker's office,'' he said. She picked it up, listened, glowered, slammed down the phone. ''Goddammit!'' she spat. ''Let's go.'' She left in a huff. I lingered over coffee and thought: you just made a bad impression on a powerful person with a volatile temperament. Congratulations, you're doing really well.
 
THIRD BIG STUPID THING I DID
I was writing the President's remarks for a meeting of a Republican women's group. Maureen Reagan was involved with the group. I knew how to recoup my mistake with her: I called the East Wing and told them that I would soon be finished with the speech and would like her to look at it. They called back: Miss Reagan wants the speech immediately upon its completion.
I wrote a good speech, a fine speech, a dazzling speech. It connected things that had never been connected, it asserted itself, it was - intellectually substantial and yet marked by a kind of sunny, big-chested bonhomie. I sent it over and waited for the raves. The next morning, Maureen called me personally. ''Page two,'' she said. ''Yes,'' I smiled. ''Kill it.'' ''What?''
''Kill it. And three. Page four, second graph, kill.''
''Gee, Maureen. I don't know. Don't you think this is pretty good? Where I mention the rise of the conservative columnists and Safire and all the percolation of ideas from our side -'' ''Are you refusing?'' ''Well, I don't know. I'm saying, though, that -'' Click. I had the distinct impression my rehabilitation program was not achieving the desired effect. I sat in silence. I had done it again, but it wasn't my fault, I was really trying, I meant well. But - is the President's daughter really supposed to control what he says? That's really dumb, that's really -The phone rang.
''Peggy? This is Dick Darman. I see you're already making an impression. I have spent the past 20 minutes saving your job. Miss Maureen Reagan was just over here telling some very important people that you should be fired.'' ''Oh no.'' ''Did you say no to her?''
''No, I just, I didn't say no but she wanted me to do some things that I thought were wrong.''
''Alright, listen to me. Are you listening?'' ''Yes.'' ''This is what you say when Maureen Reagan tells you to do something. You say, 'Yes Maureen, you bet Maureen, right away Maureen.' Do you have that? ''Yes.'' ''Good. What are you going to say when Maureen Reagan calls?
''Yes Maureen you bet Maureen how high Maureen.''
''Even better. And when you're done you call me and tell me what stupid thing you said yes to and I'll take care of it.''
I had a Maureen Plan after that. I was going to apologize and whatever she told me I was going to do and I was going to be very eager about it. But she never called again. A few years later I sat across from her at a big dinner. She made believe she didn't see me.
I HOPED TO MEET THE President. I continued writing speeches. They were not the most important speeches, but each had a weight of its own and I strived to make each special. I thought about the audience. I would think how happy they were to be near the President and how each deserved something special, something personal. I experimented with special jokes and witticisms in parentheses at the top of the page; I did not endear myself to the researchers when I asked them to go back again and again to find out who the leader of such and such an organization was and what his nickname was and has he ever met the President? And in the town where he's speaking, what are the people talking about, is there a local problem like a garbage scow nobody wants, does the local school have a winning team, what's the big local department store and are they hiring? Anything to make it seem as if someone had thought about this speech and these people. I would write them and send them in; the President would read them and never complain.
I will always remember -actually I will never forget -the first time I got a response. I received a speech back from the President and in the upper right-hand corner where he put his initials to show he'd read it there was the usual RR, but beneath that I saw his faint script. ''Very Good,'' it said. I stared at it. Then I took a pair of scissors and cut it off and taped it to my blouse, like a second-grader with a star. All day, people noticed it and looked at me; I would beam back in a quietly idiotic manner. They would look away. In the mess, one of the President's lawyers, Peter Rusthoven, nodded hello, saw the paper, read it, put his head in his hands and screamed softly. That was my favorite reaction.
I met him face to face my fourth month there. I had been lobbying, of course. ''I can't write well without hearing the person I'm writing for talk in conversation,'' I would tell Ben. ''I have to hear where they breathe in a sentence and what humor is for them.'' ''If you think he sounds stale, maybe it's because the speechwriters haven't met with him in more than a year,'' I'd tell Darman.
Finally, after the President returned from Europe, where he had attended the 40th anniversary celebrations of D-Day and given the address at Pointe du Hoc, I was to meet him. With Ben and Dick Darman and the entire top staff. That was one of the odd things about the Reagan White House - wherever the President was, his top staff was. They'd sit there in a row in his office like frogs on a log, staring at the President. I used to wonder: don't they have work to do?
We waited outside the President's office. An aide inside opened the door - the doors in the West Wing never make a sound, you feel the air and that's how you know they're swinging - and motioned us in.
There he was, behind his desk, turning toward me: a big, tall, radiant man, impeccably tailored, his skin soft, pink and smooth. He twinkled at me. I was the new one, and the only woman. He walked to me and took my hand. It is the oddest thing and true, even though everyone says it: it is impossible to be nervous in his presence. He acts as if he's lucky to be with you. ''Well,'' he said, ''it's so wonderful to meet you. Please, please sit down. Well, so!''
We sat, I in the spot on the couch immediately to his right. I don't really remember what we talked about. There was no reason for the meeting beyond ''The new speechwriter's unhappy and let's let her meet him or she may leave.'' The President sat up straight in his chair, a piece of beige plastic in his ear. I was surprised how big his hearing aid is, or rather how aware of it you are when you're with him. There was a quizzical look on his face as he listened to what was going on around him, and I realized: he doesn't really hear very much, and his appearance of constant good humor is connected to his deafness. He misses much of what is not said straight to him, and because of that he keeps a pleasant look on his face as people chat around him.
The meeting lasted half an hour. Conversation ambled. The President looked around sometimes as if to say: ''What are we doing here, folks?'' I felt guilty at taking his time.
The night before, Mario Cuomo had given his speech to the Democratic Convention. Everyone around me agreed it had not been a great speech, but I thought it had been a speech of great power. Nevertheless, it had clearly got under the President's skin. He resented its implicit accusation of heartlessness and ignorance of the true condition of his country.
The President looked at me. ''Larry Speakes says all the reporters have been asking questions about it. I asked him to draw up a list of what they're saying at the briefing. I just got it and sat down and wrote my answers for the news conference. Would you mind if I read them to you?''
Would I mind? Hey, buddy, I don't have time to sit around listening to the private musings of the leader of the free world as he speculates on how to answer his most eloquent critic. ''Oh, please, yes,'' I said.
He retrieved the list from his desk and read off some answers, some of which were snappy. I smiled at them. They were all facts and figures about the economy. ''Seven million new jobs created, 600,000 new businesses incorporated. If that's depression, let's have more of it!''
As we left, he took my hand. ''You know, a while ago I wanted to call you about something, but . . .'' He shook his head. He couldn't remember.
''Peggy wrote the Pointe du Hoc speech, Mr. President,'' said Ben. Reagan lit up. ''That's it. That was wonderful, it was like 'Flanders Fields.' I read it upstairs, and when I read something I like to look up at the corner to see the name and I saw Noonan. I meant to call you and never -'' ''Oh, that's O.K.'' ''But it was wonderful. Were you there? Well, after the speech the original Pointe du Hoc fellows came up and told me how much they liked it, and there were tears in their eyes. And you know, I talked with this fellow - the day before, when the Rangers recreated the climb up those cliffs, this fellow went up with them just as he had 40 years ago and he made it to the top with those kids. Boy, that was something.''
''Boy, that was something.'' That's how he talks, like a happy working-class American boy from the 30's.
I had been in the White House less than five months at that point. I had seen how the White House worked and how speechwriting works. What I was learning was what Dick Darman later said at Ben's goodbye party two years later: that speechwriting in the Reagan White House was where the philosophical, ideological and political tensions of the Administration got worked out.
Speechwriting was where the Administration got invented every day. And so speechwriting was, for some, the center of gravity in that Administration, the one point where ideas and principles still counted; and for others - at the State Department, for instance - speechwriting was a natural and unhappy force of nature, a black hole from which no sophisticated thought could escape.
What an apprenticeship I had! It would serve me well over the next two and a half years, as I worked for the President, who remained for me an object of awe and mystery. And it stood me in good stead after I left the White House and worked for George Bush during his Presidential campaign and in the days just before he took office.
Ultimately, I decided to leave speechwriting after a post-election challenge from a friend who paraphrased George Orwell: '' 'You should do anything for your side but write for it.' If you stay where you are, you will let politics decide what you do and do not write, do and do not see. Or you can take whatever talent you have and be a writer. You have to decide.''
Which I did, and after five years in Washington, left the world of speechwriting.

GRAPHIC: Reagan demonstrating how he withdraws his hand when someone shakes it too hard (White House Photograph); Noonan in autumn l984 in the office, going over Reagan's notes on a speech (p. 27) Noonan and Bush at the Vice President's Christmas party at his residence, December l6, l986 (White House Photograph) (p. 66); Reagan's Pointe du Hoc speech in Normandy, June 6, l984, 40 years after D Day (Gamma-Liaison)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7445 (TSE) (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (52%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (52%); 

COMPANY: RIGHT ON CO LTD (80%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CHRISTMAS (79%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); CONSERVATISM (63%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; NOONAN, PEGGY RONALD REAGAN (89%); 



362 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 48, Column 4; Home Design Magazine

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: COLLECTING;
Hype and High Prices in the 80's

BYLINE: By Laurel Graeber; Laurel Graeber is a New York writer and editor.

 BODY:
ONE DAY A WOMAN walked into Gerald G. Stiebel's art and antiques gallery and told him that she wanted to buy a Rembrandt. ''I was very impressed, even though she didn't look like the type,'' says Stiebel, who is president of Rosenberg & Stiebel, New York dealers of Old Master paintings and drawings and French 18th-century furniture. ''Then she said, 'It doesn't have to be a Rembrandt -it just has to look like one.' ''
The anecdote reveals a great deal about the spirit of collecting in the 1980's. Some say it was a decade in which show was celebrated over substance, wealth over taste. But at the same time, it was a period characterized by a huge influx of new collectors, who, though sometimes unschooled, came to appreciate fine works and wanted to join the hunt.
''This decade aroused interest in almost every period and category,'' says Dr. George Szabo, the former curator of the Robert Lehman Collection at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the director of Place des Antiquaires, a Manhattan emporium of antiques shops that is itself an 80's phenomenon. ''It almost made art universal - a commodity. The negative side was that once art became a commodity, it was treated like one.'' 
In fact, some pieces, particularly Impressionist and contemporary paintings, were changing hands so frequently and at such increasing value that reports of the art market began to sound more like the Dow Jones in the most bullish of times. One work, ''The Conversation,'' painted by Mary Cassatt around 1896, was auctioned in 1984 for $495,000; in 1988, the same picture brought $4.51 million.
In some cases, record auction prices were established one year, only to be broken the next. The work of the painter Jasper Johns actually broke records twice within 24 hours. The other objects that brought heretofore unheard-of sums ranged from the slightly silly to the sublime: An antique fish decoy sold for $6,600, a world record, last July; Degas's ''Little Dancer at Age 14,'' a 1921 bronze cast from an 1881 mold, fetched $10.175 million in 1988, a new record for sculpture.
In the decorative arts, the apex was reached last June, when an 18th-century mahogany secretary attributed to John Goddard of Newport, R.I., sold at Christie's in New York for $12.1 million - the highest auction price ever paid for an object other than a painting.
''The decorative arts had always been a stepchild of the fine arts,'' says Harold Sack of Israel Sack, the Manhattan dealer who bought the desk-bookcase for an unidentified collector. ''Furniture had never had that stature. Now the tide has turned.''
But although the Newport secretary was a rarity - one of only nine known to exist -a decade of ever-soaring prices has led art and antiques experts to wonder if the quality of the pieces being sold is always so unimpeachable.
''I fully agree that a work of genius is priceless,'' says Dr. Szabo, ''but not every genius produced a masterpiece every time. Renoir did first-rate nudes, and he also did second-, third- and fourth-rate ones that are nothing but sausages. In the 1980's, these have been 'PR'd' into masterpieces.''
Moreover, is any work really worth the staggering price paid in 1987 for the van Gogh painting ''Irises'' -$53.9 million?
''Big collections were sold in 1980, and a van Gogh might have brought $1.5 million,'' says Patrick A. Gerschel, a New York collector who heads a private investment firm. ''In the past 10 years, has his work really gone up 50 times? In my opinion, the perception of value is out of whack with reality.''
How did it happen? Many point to the greater prosperity of the 80's, when young corporate Turks were making more than ever before. And purchasing art is one way to make new money seem old. ''We used to have an advertisement saying we had a budget shop for young collectors,'' Sack comments. ''Now we should say that we have one for old ones.''
In addition, other factors made the purchase of art and antiques more attractive. Changes in the U.S. tax laws in the latter half of the decade diminished the incentive to donate these works to museums, and their status as art made them seem more resistant to sudden economic slumps, such as the stock market crash in the fall of 1987. The sinking value of the dollar also contributed to a vast flood of foreign money, particularly the Japanese yen, into art and antiques. Institutions like Sotheby's and Citibank even started up art financing, which offers a number of services, including a method by which the buyer can essentially take out a mortgage on a masterpiece. And perhaps most important, art and antiques were being bought more frequently as investments. In the undeniably competitive mood of the 80's, they were perceived as the last great frontier in which to get rich quick.
''The wolves of Wall Street have been buying a lot,'' says Richard H. Jenrette, chairman of the board of Equitable Life Assurance Society in New York, and an avid collector of American antiques. ''They think the parts are greater than the whole. The same mentality that sees hidden assets in a company like Nabisco will try to look for hidden value in an antiques collection. They approach it with the same attitude they would a takeover.''
Whether the trend continues into the 90's will depend upon economic factors, as well as the usual cycles of supply and demand. But professionals in the business feel strongly that if the bottom does drop out of the antiques market, it will literally be the bottom that falls.
''It's in the lower-quality pieces that you'll see the change,'' says Diana D. Brooks, president of Sotheby's North America in Manhattan.
The lesson here is one dealers and collectors have always emphasized: Buy the best you can afford. If a piece is an exquisite example of its kind, it will continue to have value, even if the category goes out of fashion and the prices fall from the stratosphere. ''It's just like New York apartments,'' notes Stiebel. ''The best have increased in value; the others haven't.''
But how is it possible to buy the best if even second-rate antiques are bringing six-figure sums? The answer throughout the 80's was to look for a relatively unplumbed area. And, the Newport secretary notwithstanding, American antiques remain one of the few fields where pieces can be affordable.
''This is the only area where the market is mostly domestic,'' points out Brooks. ''In all the others, it is international.'' According to Richard Jenrette, the best buys are American furniture from the 1830's and 40's. ''There's a lot around,'' he says. ''I also think American portraiture is being given away now. Gilbert Stuart is way undervalued.''
Another area that seems promising for beginning collectors in the 90's is classical antiquities. ''Here, we're talking about an object or bowl that you can still buy for under $1,000,'' says Brooks. ''I'm surprised at how long it's taken these prices to climb.''
Both of these categories, along with Gothic Revival furniture, are indicative of a trend Gerald Stiebel sees toward solid, more imposing pieces in the next decade. Why? He shrugs at the question. ''Why Christian Lacroix?''
George Szabo feels that even our present-day technology will influence the way we regard the past. ''The computer age is affecting people's tastes,'' he says. ''There will be interest in works of art crafted with great technique. We will be fascinated by granulation and cloisonne - the sheer beauty of the object.''
As for truly undiscovered areas, most experts agree that they do not exist. And when speaking of the antiques business, ''bargain'' can be only a relative term.
''If the line is good, even a country piece can be beautiful in its own way,'' says Norton Rosenbaum, who is based in New York and advises private clients on 18th-century furniture. ''A piece needn't be expensive to be good. But to be great, it's expensive.''
This reality may result in a more discriminating collector. The great boon of the 80's, many dealers feel, was the huge number of blockbuster museum exhibitions, television programs and education facilities that increased public awareness of art and antiques. The 90's, they say, may be the time to apply those insights.
''Some things will fall in price, and others will stay the same or increase,'' says Harold Sack. ''You'll see a lot more care given to purchasing. Those without knowledge will have a harder time.''
So will those without money. No one is forecasting an immediate dramatic downturn among the most highly valued categories.
''There is a possibility that people in the 1990's will be less interested in art and more interested in making a living,'' says Patrick Gerschel. After all, he points out, ''Art is a wonderful thing, but to enjoy it, you need to not be concerned with having enough to eat.''

GRAPHIC: Degas's ''Little Dancer at Age 14,'' which sold for $10.175 million in 1988 (pg. 48); Mary Cassatt's ''The Conversation,'' which sold for $495,000 in 1984 and $4.51 million in 1988 (pg. 54) (Courtesy of Christie's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); 

SUBJECT: ART; ANTIQUES; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS PAINTING (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); ART DEALERS (76%); RETAILERS (71%); 

PERSON: GRAEBER, LAUREL



363 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 48, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: CRIME/MYSTERY;
FROM BAKERSFIELD TO BOGOTA

BYLINE: By ANN CRITTENDEN; Ann Crittenden is the author of ''Sanctuary,'' a story of the American sanctuary movement.

 BODY:

THE LAST RUN
An American Woman's Years
Inside a Colombian Drug Family - and Her Dramatic Escape.
By Kay Wolff and Sybil Taylor.
342 pp. New York: Viking. $18.95.
Fifteen years ago I wrote an article for The New York Times Magazine about cocaine, then rapidly becoming the drug of choice with the New York-Los Angeles ''in'' crowd. Medical experts from Yale to the University of California assured me that coke was a relatively inoffensive drug, not physically addictive in the destructive manner of the opiates. ''Not to worry'' was the message. 
I drew two morals from the experience: don't believe everything the experts tell you, and never underestimate the ability of people to mess themselves up with whatever they can get their hands on. Both lessons were brought to mind by a reading of ''The Last Run,'' the story of a young American woman who became part of a Colombian coke-smuggling ''family'' in the early 1970's, written with the help of the author Sybil Taylor.
Kay Wolff (a pseudonym), who grew up poor in Bakersfield, Calif., went to Bogota looking for adventure and a cocaine connection that would provide her with a lucrative smuggling business. In no time, she was sleeping with the son of a Mafia-style drug lord and working for his father as a fabricator, sewing pure powder into the lining of suitcases bound for the United States and Europe. She doesn't say what she was paid, but it was enough to keep the memories of her hard-scrabble childhood at bay. She surrounded herself with ''emeralds and jewelry, boots and hand-tooled shoes, imported wool suits, silk blouses, and fur coats'' - Kay, it seems, was no hippie.
All of this ended when the endemic violence in Colombia disrupted the family's cozy arrangements and the boss committed the faux pas of blowing someone's brains out all over Kay's lap. By this time she was already antsy, having (a) killed an intruder in her apartment, (b) developed a serious cocaine habit and (c) lost her boyfriend to a more appropriate local woman. She managed to get out of Colombia with two street urchins she had picked up to ease her emotional isolation.
It is impossible to know how much of this tale to believe. It is billed by the publisher as a ''true story,'' but the author has interviewed none of the principals except the pseudonymous Kay and her good friend ''Maggie,'' who ran the United States end of a sideline smuggling operation. This is essentially a one-source story, full of conversations reconstructed after almost two decades, padded with details from old newspaper articles and plenty of imaginative embellishments. The resulting re-creation is skillfully done; ''The Last Run'' reads like a fast-paced novel and one actually begins to care for its cocaine-snorting heroine. But her unsubstantiated version of events would never pass the test of credibility at any reputable newspaper or magazine. Whatever it is, ''The Last Run'' is not nonfiction. It is high time that the publishing business cleaned up its act.
On another level, however, ''The Last Run'' is entirely convincing. Despite the author's attempts to glamorize it, Kay's low-level criminal existence definitely did not pay. She spent the great majority of her days and nights in Colombia toiling over her work like a seamstress in a sweatshop, driven by constant fear. In the end, to get away without arousing suspicion, she had to walk away from her bank account and abandon all those hard-earned Chanel suits. ''The Last Run'' is as stern as any 19th-century novel in its message that illicit adventure (then sex, now drugs) brings one to a bad end.
The book's picture of Colombia also seems sadly accurate. The drug-ring leader apparently bought his way into the best circles. The walls of his home are covered with appreciative awards for his philanthropy; his fincas (ranches) and horse farms had helped ease him into the right clubs; the family's trusted assistants hold key positions with the national airline, customs service, police, diplomatic corps and Government. The family's business meetings give Kay a rare insight into how things really work. At one such gathering, ''Kay listened, fascinated, to a discussion of what names could be counted on to accept bribes or gifts of airline tickets and special privileges, names she had frequently seen in the newspapers and magazines, featured in headlines and society columns. She had begun to understand that politics in Colombia functioned not only through bribes but through an intricate network of familial relationships, loyalties, and favors, a system that formed the warp and woof of Colombian social life at its higher levels.'' Unfortunately, the book does not name any names - even the drug lord is given a pseudonym.
How much worse is it when the drug trade has become a multibillion-dollar business dwarfing the economies and corrupting the political and judicial systems of the countries in which it operates? In Colombia, killers have bombed banks and gunned down judges, police officials and a leading candidate in next year's presidential election. So much for those who would resist the warlords who are replacing the Colombian state.
The ultimate losers, of course, are the powerless - the poor, the women and the children. ''The Last Run'' conveys a genuine sympathy for the plight of these perennial underdogs. To the disgust of her Colombian colleagues, Kay tries to treat her servants like human beings, and she finds a detached camaraderie with the mistresses and whores of the drug lord, who cling like barnacles to the male life raft that keeps them afloat.
Most of all, her heart goes out to the wretched and abandoned children who haunt the streets of Bogota. The most moving part of the book describes how the mutual dependence between Kay and her two adopted children finally gives her a reason to kick her habit and get out of the trap she has made of her life.
On a trip back to Colombia in 1986 with the author (who is identified only as a writer living in New York City), Kay noticed that the ubiquitous street children were no longer visible. She wondered if this was because they had been confined to the barrios or even killed. The suggestions are raised but are not explored, although the book is dedicated to the children of Colombia and its stated purpose is ''to awaken others to care.'' In the end, however, ''The Last Run'' leaves one feeling more hopeless than inspired about the future in Latin America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LAST RUN, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COCAINE (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); WRITERS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); 

PERSON: CRITTENDEN, ANN; WOLFF, KAY; TAYLOR, SYBIL



364 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 56, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON

 BODY:

LITTLE ODESSA, by Joseph Koenig. (Ballantine, $3.95.) A Times Square stripper from Brooklyn's Russian emigre community is recruited by the F.B.I. for an investigation that climaxes with a Coney Island roller-coaster ride. This is ''a highly readable, beautifully written book,'' Newgate Callendar said here in 1988. 
 
BLIND FAITH, by Joe McGinniss. (Signet/New American Library, $5.95.) Rob Marshall, a wealthy New Jersey suburbanite, arranges to have his wife, Maria, shot to death during a faked robbery. Earlier this year our reviewer, Anne Rice, said this true crime story ''offers suspenseful and engrossing reading, with a courtroom drama that is cathartic as well as gripping. . . . Rob Marshall emerges as a monster by anyone's standards, a deeply flawed and subsequently dangerous individual who was apparently incapable of realizing on any moral level what the murder of his wife really meant.'' Signet has also published a new edition of FATAL VISION ($5.95), Mr. McGinniss's story of Jeffrey MacDonald, the Green Beret physician convicted of killing his pregnant wife and two children in 1970 and blaming drug-crazed hippies for the crime. In a new epilogue the author rebuts a New Yorker article published this year in which Janet Malcolm accused him of tricking Mr. MacDonald into thinking the book would exonerate him. ''Even though the doctor's ulterior motive was clearly to use [the] friendship for the purpose of proving his innocence, there are bound to be those readers who feel that Mr. McGinniss has exploited and betrayed a friendship,'' Christopher Lehmann-Haupt said in The Times in 1983. ''But 'Fatal Vision' smells of integrity, and that's one of the many things about it that make it irresistible.'' Also available from New American Library is a new edition of GOING TO EXTREMES ($8.95), Mr. McGinniss's 1980 book about Alaska.
 
SOMETHING IN THE AIR, by Emma Lathen. (Pocket Books, $3.95.) The executive vice president of an investment company wonders who killed an outspoken employee of a small airline trying to close a big financial deal. ''I've never been a big mystery fan,'' our reviewer, Wendy Wasserstein, said last year. But Emma Lathen, a pseudonym shared by Mary Jane Latsis, an economist, and Martha Henissart, a lawyer, ''spins an observant tale of financial and criminal intrigue.''
 
PUZZLE FOR PLAYERS, by Patrick Quentin. (International Polygonics, $5.95.) Preparations for a play called ''Troubled Waters'' are interrupted by a series of mysterious deaths. In 1938, our reviewer, Isaac Anderson, said the ''baffling mystery . . . presents a vivid picture of a play being built in rehearsal and of the problems faced by the author, the producer and the members of the cast.'' Patrick Quentin was a pen name shared by Hugh Callingham Wheeler, who wrote ''Sweeney Todd,'' and Richard Wilson Webb.
 
DEATH TAKES THE STAGE, by Donald Ward. (St. Martin's, $7.95.) This murder mystery takes place in the kinkier strata of Los Angeles's theater community, and the sleuth is a Hollywood agent. ''There are indications that Mr. Ward, to whom nothing seems holy, is kidding around with the private-eye genre,'' Newgate Callendar said here last year. ''Have a ball. A fresh new talent has arrived.''
 
AT DEATH'S DOOR, by Robert Barnard. (Dell, $3.95.) A West End actress arrives at her former lover's home in a small English village to put a stop to a tell-all biography being written by the illegitimate daughter produced by the affair. Last year The Times's John Gross said that ''Mr. Barnard resolves the mystery with practiced ingenuity, rousing suspicions, confirming some of them, deflecting others, making you wonder whether there isn't a second riddle wrapped in the original enigma.''
 
THE SPY WHO GOT AWAY: The True Story of the Only CIA Agent to Defect to the Soviet Union, by David Wise. (Avon, $4.95.) With the help of the F.B.I., the C.I.A. mishandled an embittered former agent named Edward Lee Howard who fled to Moscow with agency secrets. This account leaves you ''first in helpless laughter - and finally, it has to be said, in helpless rage at the arrogance and apparent incompetence of our homegrown spymasters and counterintelligence wizards,'' Peter Maas said in The Book Review in 1988.
 
GENERAL MURDERS, by Loren D. Estleman. (Fawcett Crest, $3.95.) Earlier this year our reviewer, Edna Stumpf, said the best of this collection of Amos Walker murder stories is ''The Prettiest Dead Girl in Detroit.'' The author's ''genius seems to reside in his devotion: he slavishly imitates Raymond Chandler and handles the inherent sentimentality of his enterprise with becoming reticence.''
 
SPRING HARROWING, by Phoebe Atwood Taylor. (Foul Play Press/Countryman, $5.95.) On Cape Cod a man is found clawed to death after his neighbor's two bobcats are set free. ''You will have a mighty good time reading the story, although there will be moments when you may fear that you are going mad,'' Isaac Anderson said in these pages in 1939. Foul Play Press has reissued another mystery featuring the sleuth Asey Mayo, THE DEADLY SUNSHADE ($5.95), published in 1940, in which the victim is found dead beneath her beach umbrella. THE THIRD GENERATION, by Chester Himes. (Thunder's Mouth, $11.95.) The writer who made his mark with ''Cotton Comes to Harlem'' and other novels about crime in far northwest Manhattan called this ''my autobiographical novel.'' In 1954 our reviewer, John Brooks, said the searing story of a black professor whose wife tries to pass for white ''shows how increasingly firm a position he deserves among American novelists.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Joe McGinniss (Nancy Doherty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); MURDER (77%); LITERATURE (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); SHOOTINGS (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (53%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE ANNE RICE (57%); 



365 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: 'TERRIBLE, THE WAY IT WAS IN FAMILIES'

BYLINE: By MADISON SMARTT BELL; adison Smartt Bell's most recent book is the novel ''Soldier's Joy.''

 BODY:

THE OTHER SIDE
By Mary Gordon.
386 pp. New York: Viking. $19.95.
Mary Gordon's earlier work has demonstrated her expertise in portraying the politics of family life, with its manifold misunderstandings and its complex struggles for power and love. In her fourth novel, she applies this ability to a much larger and more intricate situation than ever before, attempting to account for five generations of the MacNamara family within the space of 24 hours. On the day in question, the elderly Vincent MacNamara is expected to return from a sanitarium, where he has spent several months recuperating from a broken hip, to the house in Queens where his wife, Ellen, lies dying after a series of small strokes. Their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren have gathered for his homecoming, thus supplying the book with some 20 major characters. It is a tribute to Ms. Gordon's artistry that she brings this dauntingly large cast so quickly and surely to life. 
Her approach is to cut a cross section through the trunk of these interrelated lives to reveal how they appear at this particular moment to which their histories have brought them - and to expose the fibers that bind them together. Naturally, Vincent and Ellen, the heads of the house, are found at the center. ''Terrible, the way it was in families,'' thinks Vincent. ''He'd never understood it. Why they weren't what they were meant to be, what they could almost be so easily.''
In the MacNamara family, love tends to skip generations. Ellen is uninterested in her daughters, Magdalene and Theresa, caring only for her son, John, who is killed in World War II. Afterward, she seizes his accidentally conceived son, Dan, away from his hapless mother and raises him as her own, while the remainder of her maternal affection goes to Magdalene's daughter, Cam, who has been effectively orphaned by her father's death and her mother's alcoholism. Ellen herself is the survivor of a wretched childhood in Ireland, which she served as the keeper of her insane mother, whom her father abandoned. Vincent's Irish family seems only a little kindlier, and he also arrives in America in flight. With vignettes of memory, the two reconstruct a classic immigrants' tale: lives as laborers, as union organizers, the ascent to the middle class.
The stories of all the MacNamara descendants are also given in marvelously economical capsules. Theresa's three children, John, Marilyn and Sheilah, are all in one way or another crippled by their mother's contempt, which seems to have been inspired by Ellen's indifference to her. That sort of repeating pattern in family history is itself a recurring feature of Ms. Gordon's work. Magdalene's daughter, Cam, and John's son, Dan, who were loved as children, break out of the pattern to some degree, but although they are successful in their partnership as divorce lawyers, they both lead ragged personal lives. Cam is stuck in the shell of a failed and childless marriage, and she cannot solve her perpetual quarrel with her mother, a drunken hypochondriac who hasn't left her room in years. The messily divorced Dan is tormented by guilt over what his departure has done to his own children. Both he and Cam find only limited comfort with their respective lovers, since both are still members of a Roman Catholic culture where adultery is regarded with great seriousness. ''The stories told by the women in her family,'' Cam thinks, ''were always in the service of this: this judgment, without whose proximity they could not, any of them, think of pleasure.''
There's plot enough in ''The Other Side'' for several novels, but the main purpose of all the action is to illuminate individual character: what it is and how it comes to be. Ms. Gordon has set out to discover how each self is formed in relation to other selves, to learn to what extent identity is chosen and to what extent it is imposed. The agoraphobic Magdalene supplies a metaphor for this repeating uncertainty in the lives of all the characters: ''She sees herself on the street. There is no self there, no shape, nothing to keep her from spilling over into air, into life, into anybody's life. Outside this room she can fly off, she will, there will be no more her, nothing will press down on her to create a shape.''
As Magdalene is shaped by the walls of her room, so are the other characters by other people, by circumstantial relationships that mold for almost every one of them an identity that becomes hardened past any possibility of change. Of all the MacNamaras, only Vincent seems capable of imagining himself as something other than what he is; this capacity serves as a healing force in his marriage when he returns to Ireland to repair some of the damage done by Ellen's vengefully motivated departure many years earlier. But all the others (down to Dan's teen-age daughters Darci and Staci) suffer that hardening of personality that may be an inheritance from Ellen, who is so powerfully intransigent as to break herself with her own strength. In her deathbed reverie, ''she wants a stone now for a body, smooth, a weapon, closed. Now her body keeps nothing back.'' All the MacNamaras experience themselves as formed, inexorably; such is the tragedy of this family's life.
The spectacle of so many strong and good people so seriously failing one another and themselves would logically become, in a religious context, an image of the fallen world. Mary Gordon is consummately skilled at rendering nuances of religious devotion, which she has handled very differently in her very different books: ''The Company of Women,'' for example, treats religious mysticism respectfully and lovingly, while ''Men and Angels'' shows an extreme case of it as a psychopathological catastrophe. In this new novel, Catholicism appears more in its influence on ordinary life than in its mystery. The big religious questions are asked, but not dwelt upon. At one point, Vincent tentatively characterizes God as ''some person whom your tears will interest,'' then asks himself, ''And have you made Him up?'' The MacNamaras' predicament is presented existentially, and Deus (ex machina or otherwise) does not actually appear.
''The Other Side'' is epic in scope but not in length, and in other hands it might have ended as a snarl of unfinished business. But Mary Gordon's painstakingly cultivated gift for zeroing in on the important emotions with unsentimental precision, and her talent for summing up character efficiently and accurately, make this the best of her several fine books. Although some threads of the plot go dangling, the strands turn out to matter much less than the web. Thus Vincent's questions of faith are answered, somewhat backhandedly, by Dan, who ''realizes the nature of his faith. He believes in human frailty. He sees the wholeness of all life, the intricate connecting tissue. It is this, this terrible endeavor, this impossible endeavor. Simply to live a life.''
''Each unhappy family,'' as Tolstoy put it, ''is unhappy in its own way,'' and under the aspect of eternity the pursuit of happiness may be less important than the pursuer takes it to be. The idea that suffering is the catalyst that gives each soul its essential nature remains at least consistent with the Christian heritage of which Mary Gordon continues to partake. Like Tolstoy, she is a profoundly religious novelist who has obligated herself to understand the lives she invents in strictly human terms.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: OTHER SIDE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRELAND (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FAMILY (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN (88%); BONE FRACTURES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: BELL, MADISON SMARTT; GORDON, MARY



366 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 42, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: CRIME/MYSTERY;
MIAMI MAYHEM

BYLINE: By KATHERINE DUNN; Katherine Dunn's most recent novel is ''Geek Love.''

 BODY:

SKIN TIGHT
By Carl Hiaasen.
319 pp. New York:
G. P. Putnam's Sons. $18.95.
This novel is Carl Hiaasen's latest dangerous weapon - Uzi satire in 9-millimeter bursts aimed at those classic baddies, vanity and greed. The specific targets in ''Skin Tight'' are plastic surgery quacks, trash television hosts and shady lawyers. The locale is that tropical Gomorrah, Miami. The question is not whodunit but how - and will they get away with it? 
This is the ''Don't Mess With Bill'' school of the hard-boiled, in which the hero is an outsider because he's more moral than the rest of society. He's also tougher, smarter and whatever else is required for kicking chaos into shape. Only he can save us from botched plastic surgery, but it takes something personal to goad him out of isolation and into action. Mr. Hiaasen twists the formula's tail with break-bone humor.
Having killed five men and divorced five women, Mick Stranahan has seen enough of human nature to prefer barracudas. A Vietnam vet with an explosive chip on his shoulder, Stranahan was an investigator for the Florida State Attorney's office until circumstances required him to twist a gun barrel up the nose of a crooked judge and pull the trigger. The grand jury decided it was self-defense, but Stranahan was suddenly unemployable. The other crooked judges were scared to have him testifying in their courtrooms.
Stranahan pockets his pension and opts for early retirement as a fishing hermit in a stilt house on the wilder reaches of Biscayne Bay. But his piscatorial idyll is interrupted by a sudden tidal wave of attention from the outside world - a thug sporting a newly designed face tries to kill him, nude cuties invade his sun deck begging reassurance about the quality of their recent breast augmentations, a television crew anchors in camera range with lenses bared and explanations incomplete. It's enough to burn the fuseless Stranahan out of his lair and back into the fray.
The source of the irritation is an old case, buried and festering, that had once stymied Stranahan: the disappearance of a college student from a bus bench outside the plastic surgery clinic where she'd just had her nose bobbed. Resurrected from its filing-cabinet tomb, the case becomes a zombie festival of colorful sinners.
Chief among these are the suave Rudy Graveline, a famed though secretly incompetent plastic surgeon whose fortune depends on his skill in outmaneuvering malpractice suits; Reynaldo Flemm, a trash television host who's a hilarious merger of Morton Downey Jr. and Geraldo Rivera; and Maggie Gonzalez, a knowing nurse who triggers the whole affair out of dual urges - to replenish her bank account and to wreak vengeance on the man who precipitated her declining fortunes.
In ''Skin Tight,'' we get the requisite one good woman with brains and guts as well as battalions of bimbos and Bambis flitting through the Florida sunshine. There are squads of good and bad guys, including Stranahan's personal albatross, Kipper Garth. To Stranahan's shame, his kid sister married Garth, a sleazy personal-injury lawyer whose billboards claim, ''If you've had an accident, somebody somewhere owes you money!!!''
Carl Hiaasen is deservedly famed for his Technicolor characters. This is, after all, the writer whose last book, ''Double Whammy,'' gave us Skeet, the ex-Governor turned hobo who dines on animals killed by passing cars. Still, the hit man nicknamed Chemo may be Mr. Hiaasen's most triumphant creation. This bumbling murderer has more personality, more sympathetic frailty and more hilarious lines than anybody else in ''Skin Tight.'' He may also have the worst complexion in the history of acne.
Mr. Hiaasen isn't much interested in the sources of human behavior. He offers no genetic shadows, potty-training secrets or pubescent traumas to explain why his people act as they do. These folks spring from Zeus' ear at a draftable age and march directly into trouble. This is occasionally irritating, but it seems a legitimate function of Mr. Hiaasen's zestful blend of satire and shoot-'em-up. And if he pumps the stereotypes of Swiftian satire, he also plays fair with taut, fast-paced action. The story jumps. The dialogue is crisp and hot. The logic is clean, and the plot twists with sinewy coherence.
Maybe it's Mr. Hiaasen's journalism background (he's a columnist and reporter for The Miami Herald) that lets him toss in dozens of miniature tales, consisting of one- or two-paragraph plots that might serve a lesser writer for a whole book. These nuggets add rich color to the streamlined narrative. Explaining Dr. Rudy Graveline's revenge mania, for example, Mr. Hiaasen throws us this:
''One time another surgeon had done a corrective rhinoplasty on one of Rudy's botched-up patients, then badmouthed Rudy at a medical society cocktail party. Rudy got so furious that he paid two goons to trash the other doctor's office, but not before stealing his medical files. Soon, the other doctor's surgical patients received personal letters thanking them for being so understanding while he battled that terrible heroin addiction, which now seemed to be under control. Well, almost . . . By the end of the month, the other doctor had closed what was left of his practice and moved to British Columbia.''
Mr. Hiaasen's skills are impressive. Yet readers who delighted in his earlier book ''Tourist Season'' may grieve for the personal warmth of that voice. The affection Mr. Hiaasen so obviously felt for the characters in that novel is largely missing from ''Skin Tight.'' The tone here is scalpel-cold.
More troubling is the discovery that the protagonist of ''Skin Tight'' is a character who is only skin deep. Mick Stranahan is as generic as Clint Eastwood. He performs feats of brute force, is good to his sister and refuses to jump into the sack with anyone who can't name all five Beatles, but he packs less emotional credibility than the Pillsbury Doughboy. He is also physically invisible to the reader.
It might be argued that heroes are inherently less interesting than villains, or that a faceless hero allows more readers - not excluded by the wrong hair color or build - to identify with his glories. But there is no visual description of Stranahan until roughly 20 pages before the end of the book, and then it consists of an undistinguished clothing list and the remark that he looks ''strong, but not particularly mean.'' From a writer as versatile and imaginative as Mr. Hiaasen, this omission has to be a conscious, if questionable, decision.
Despite the quibbles, Carl Hiaasen is always completely readable. His style has racing stripes, his reportage on everything from fishing to liposuction is fascinating, and his wit is Mencken in blue jeans. As he leans closer to the hard-boiled detective genre, Mr. Hiaasen's villains make the book - and no one has ever designed funnier, more terrifying bad guys, or concocted odder ways of doing away with them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SKIN TIGHT (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); GRAND JURY (65%); EARLY RETIREMENT (64%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); 

PERSON: DUNN, KATHERINE; HIAASEN, CARL



367 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: WORLD SERIES;
Heady Past Bore Giants and A's to Present

BYLINE: By LEONARD KOPPETT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
The Giants and the Athletics are two of the oldest franchises and hallowed names in baseball history, but as San Francisco and Oakland they are 3,000 miles away from their origins and are meeting in a World Series for the first time since thier transcontinental migration.
The New York Gothams, who acquired the nickname Giants a few years later, entered the National League in 1883, the league's eighth season. They won 17 pennants before leaving New York, but only one in 31 seasons in San Francisco before this year. That was in 1962, when they lost the World Series in seven games to the Yankees. 
The Philadelphia Athletics were charter members of the American League in 1901, appropriating a famous name associated with Philadelphia teams since before the Civil War. They won eight pennants before moving to Kansas City in 1955. Never even a contender there, they moved to Oakland in 1968 and won three consecutive World Series, in 1972-74, the only team to win three in succession in the last 36 years.
They did not reach another World Series until last year, when they lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in five games.
In general, then, both the Athletics and the Giants enjoyed more success in the first half of this century than since.
For the Giants, it all started in the last century. When the National League was formed in 1876, as a new concept in sports organization, there was a New York team called the Mutuals, which actually played in Brooklyn. There was a team in Philadelphia called the Athletics.
When these two teams refused to make their final scheduled Western trips (to avoid expense and to make money playing nonleague games close to home), they were expelled, and the league went on without teams from its two largest cities for six years.
In 1883, a new franchise for New York was granted to John B. Day, who already owned a New York team in the other league, the American Association. That team was the Metropolitans. Day called his new league team the Gothams. The teams played on adjoining diamonds at the Polo Grounds, just north of Central Park at Fifth Avenue and 110th Street.
Day and his manager, Jim Mutrie, kept shifting players between the two teams, collecting the best ones on the National League team, since it sold 50-cent tickets, compared with the American Association's 25 cents. By 1886, Mutrie was so impressed with his team that he declared, ''My men are giants.'' From then on, they were the New York Giants.
In 1888 and 1889, the Giants won the National League pennant and the World Series (against the American Association champion). But they did not flourish again until John McGraw arrived in 1902. The American League, raiding the National League for stars, had meanwhile established its major league status, and in 1903 the champions of the two leagues played the World Series.
In 1904, McGraw's Giants won a pennant but refused to play Boston, which had won in the new American League. This led to much criticism, and when the Giants finished first again in 1905, permanent rules for a World Series were drawn up by John T. Brush, then the owner of the Giants.
McGraw's greatest find was Christy Mathewson. In the 1905 World Series, Mathewson pitched three shutouts in six days against Connie Mack's Philadelphia team, which had appropriated the name ''Athletics.''
McGraw's teams won pennants in 1911, 1912, 1913, 1917, 1921, 1922, 1923 and 1924, but won the World Series only two more times, in 1921 and 1922.
The wooden Polo Grounds burned in April 1911, and the building was replaced by a steel and concrete structure, which was ready by June. This was the building, gradually enlarged through 1924, that became the ''real'' Polo Grounds. In 1913-22, the Yankees also played there (before Yankee Stadium was built), and the Mets began life there in 1962 and 1963. Meanwhile, in 1919, Charles Stoneham had bought the Giants, and ran it as a family enterprise.
McGraw did not step down as manager until 1932, when he turned the team over to Bill Terry, who was still its star first baseman. Under Terry, with pitchers led by Carl Hubbell and home runs provided by Mel Ott, the Giants won the World Series in 1933 and lost it to the Yankees in 1936 and 1937.
Then came a decade of decline. Ott replaced Terry as manager in 1942. Horace Stoneham, Charles's son, had succeeded him in 1936.
In midseason of 1948, Leo Durocher suddenly replaced Ott. Durocher had been, for 10 years, the archtypical hated Brooklyn Dodger. But in less than four years, he led the Giants to their greatest glory - at Brooklyn's expense.
Trailing the Dodgers by 13 1/2 games in August 1951, the Giants caught up and won a three-game playoff on a ninth-inning home run by Bobby Thomson. The World Series was lost again, to the Yankees, but when Durocher's team won again in 1954, it swept the Cleveland Indians in the Series in four games.
Nevertheless, Durocher, who did not get along with Stoneham, was gone after 1955. Attendance kept running a distant third to the annually more successful Yankees and Dodgers. Plans to build a new stadium in Manhattan fell through.
Stoneham knew he would have to move the team, and was prepared to take them to Minneapolis. But Walter O'Malley was moving his Dodgers to Los Angeles, and wouldn't a double move to California make more sense? It would. Stoneham went to San Francisco. The Athletics, as one of the eight original members of the American League when it went major in 1901, had Mack as part-owner as well as manager from the start. He built, gradually, the best team of its time, and won pennants in 1910, 1911, 1913 and 1914.
That made his stars expensive. A third major league, the Federal, pushed up all salary scales. World War I was causing economic problems. So Mack dismantled his champions by selling off the stars, and finished last for seven successive years.
Then he built an even greater team, which dethroned the legendary Babe Ruth Yankees in 1929, 1930 and 1931. With the onset of the Depression, he again sold off the stars to pay his bills. The Athletics were never again a contender in Philadelphia.
Mack managed through 1950, when he was 87. The National League Phillies had become winners, and the city could not sustain both teams. The Athletics were sold and moved to Kansas City in 1955. In 13 seasons there, they never finished higher than sixth, and that high only the first season.
In 1961, the club was bought by Charles O. Finley, a Chicago insurance man, who promptly began threatening to move it elsewhere: to Louisville, Seattle, Dallas, or, ultimately, Oakland.
But he also started collecting outstanding young players, and when he finally did go to Oakland, in 1968, he brought with him the nucleus of a winner that would match Mack's greatest achievements.

GRAPHIC: Giants' John McGraw, left, and A's Connie Mack during the 1905 World Series.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); OAKLAND A'S (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS; OAKLAND ATHLETICS

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); 

PERSON: KOPPETT, LEONARD LEO ERNEST DUROCHER (57%); 



368 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 8; Page 3, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL NOTEBOOK;
Hits Are Nice, but You Can't Win Without Scoring Runs

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif.

 BODY:
Shawon Dunston is best known as a fine-fielding, hard-throwing shortstop of the Chicago Cubs, but during the recent National League playoff, he stood in the middle of the Cubs' clubhouse and played baseball philosopher, raising a series of interesting questions.
''Do you think Matt Williams will hit for average next year?'' he asked a reporter many years his senior and supposedly wiser.
''Which would you rather have, batting average or runs batted in?'' ''Is batting average overrated?'' Williams, the third baseman for the San Francisco Giants, the team that beat the Cubs to the World Series, prompted Dunston's inquisitive and pensive thoughts. He batted only .202 this season but hit 18 home runs and drove in 50 runs. Despite his anemic average, Williams was one of 45 players who hit 18 or more home runs and one of 120 players who drove in 50 runs or more. 
None of the other 44 hitters had a better home-runs-to-hits ratio and only two of the other 119 had better r.b.i.-to-hits ratios.
So Dunston's questions, at least the second and third ones, were properly thought-provoking. If Williams could drive in 50 runs with a .202 average compiled on only 59 hits, is average overrated? And if a player had to settle for a high average with a low number of r.b.i. or a low average with a high number of r.b.i., which would be preferred?
In the first instance, average in some cases could be overrated, but it could be argued that if Williams had hit for a higher average, he could have driven in even more runs.
In the second, most baseball people agree that runs, not hits, win games. Certainly, batters have to get hits to get on base so someone can drive them in, but so many are left on that most hits are wasted. It's the player who can bring the runners home who is valuable and most necessary to victories.
Williams, whose hitting has restricted him to partial major league seasons the past three years, would like to provide a ''yes'' answer to Dunston's first question. If Mike Schmidt is any example, he will, if not next season, then in the seasons thereafter.
Williams's performance this year was remarkably similar to Schmidt's effort in 1973, his first full season in the majors. Batting 75 more times than Williams did this year, Schmidt batted .196, hit 18 home runs and drove in 52 runs. His ratios were not as good as those achieved by Williams, and he struck out more frequently, once every 2.7 times at bat to once every 4.1 for Williams.
Schmidt raised his average the next season by nearly 100 points, to .282, and finished his Hall of Fame career with a .267 average.
For Williams this season, one out of every 3.28 hits was a home run. That was a better ratio than Kevin Mitchell, his teammate, had in leading the majors with 47 home runs. One of every 3.36 hits was a home run for Mitchell.
With r.b.i., only Jose Canseco and Jack Clark used their hits more efficiently. Williams averaged .847 of a run batted in for every hit he had (50 r.b.i., 59 hits). Canseco's ratio was .934 (57, 61) and Clark's was .855 (94, 110).
By comparison with players who hit for high averages, of the four players who reached the 200-hit plateau, Wade Boggs had a ratio of .263 of an r.b.i. for each hit, Tony Gwynn was at .305, Steve Sax .307 and Kirby Puckett .395.
Viewing Williams's performance from another angle, he was one of five players who drove in exactly 50 runs. While he collected 59 hits, Ozzie Smith took 162 to do it, Robby Thompson 132, Steve Lyons 117 and Lance Parrish 103.
Hitters, of course, drive in runs without hits and their r.b.i. totals often depend on their position in the batting order. The hitless r.b.i., however, represent a tiny percentage of the total, and many players bat in advantageous spots and don't capitalize on them.
In other words, or in Dunston's words, ''Two-oh-two, 18 home runs, 50 runs batted in - that's amazing.''
 
The Henderson Question
 When Rickey Henderson was hitting in the .240's and not stealing bases for the Yankees earlier this season, he posed a puzzling question: With his contract expiring at the end of the season, why wasn't he turning on the retrorockets that make him the special kind of player the Yankees saw in 1985, his first year with them?
That Rickey could get a $3 million-a-year contract. This Rickey was getting a $2.4 million-a-year offer from the Yankees and they were in no way comfortable offering that.
A few months and one league championship series later, Henderson has made the Oakland Athletics uncomfortable. His price as an impending free agent has skyrocketed, and the Athletics are in a position where they have to decide if they can afford to let him go for a second time, saying they can't or won't pay what it would take to re-sign him. They offered that explanation when they traded him to the Yankees five years ago.
''We haven't had a word from them,'' Richie Bry, Henderson's agent, said. ''I called Sandy Alderson to congratulate him the day after they won the playoffs and he said, 'I'll talk to you when this is all over.' I think that's the appropriate thing to do.''
Bry said he didn't know if Henderson would re-sign with Oakland; nor did he say if Henderson wanted to become the first $3 million-a-year player.
''We last discussed what he wanted in spring training,'' the agent said. ''That's out of date now.''
Barring an uncharacteristically quick and overwhelming offer from the Athletics, Henderson will file for free agency later this month. Most likely the teams that will command his interest will be the Athletics, the Yankees and the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Without discussing prospective suitors, Bry said, ''Rickey likes the limelight.''
 
Measuring by Barfield
 Jesse Barfield has set the economic standard for this year's prospective free agents. He agreed to a three-year contract with the Yankees for $5.4 million. He was coming off a three-year contract worth $4.2 million, and his production declined drastically during the life of that contract.
In 1986, he batted .289, hit 40 home runs and drove in 108 runs. His average in succeeding seasons fell to .263, .244 and .234. His home runs and r.b.i. plummeted the first two years, to 28 and 18 and to 84 and 56, but they inched back up this season to 23 and 67. Under his new deal, he will receive a $500,000 signing bonus and salaries the next three years of $1.1 million, $1.8 million and $2 million.
 
Careful Wording
 What's most important in the minds of baseball owners these days as labor negotiations approach?
The Texas Rangers chose not to exercise the option in Charlie Hough's contract for 1990 at a salary of $900,000. Then they re-signed him for $1 million.
The reason: Under the old contract, they would have had to pay the veteran pitcher even if they locked out the players, as the players suspect they will, next year. In the new contract, Hough agreed to what is called ''neutral'' lockout language, meaning that if there is a lockout, an arbitrator will decide if Hough and many other players with similar clauses should be paid.
 
Like a Loser
 Most sports teams like to copy winners, but in Cincinnati, Marge Schott, the Reds' owners, obviously likes to copy losers: the Yankees.
In naming Bob Quinn as the Reds' general manager, Schott has now hired three consecutive general managers who with George Steinbrenner's invaluable assistance oversaw losers in New York. Bill Bergesch and Murray Cook were the first two.
Under Steinbrenner, of course, no one ever really is a general manager in the true sense of the title. His latest setup epitomizes the Steinbrenner method.
The man presumably in charge of front-office operations - that is, when Steinbrenner isn't on the phone or in his office - is George Bradley, who has the title of vice president for player development and scouting. Bradley, however, works out of the Yankees' minor league complex in Tampa, Fla. The arrangement has prompted baseball comments about the Yankees' running a major league organization in a minor league way.
Obviously, they have telephones in Tampa, but they don't play major league games there for a would-be trademaker to see the players he might want to trade for.
To replace Quinn, the Yankees have hired Harding (Pete) Peterson, who becomes the 14th man in the 17-year Steinbrenner regime to have the title or so-called responsibility of general manager. Peterson, though, has been out of baseball for four years, since the Pittsburgh Pirates dismissed him as their long-time general manager after he almost single-handedly allowed the franchise to deteriorate to the point where the city almost lost the team.
The man who saved the Pirates for Pittsburgh was Syd Thrift, who replaced Peterson and who was dismissed three years later because he didn't conduct business the way the owners wanted him to. Thrift became the Yankees' top front-office man last March, then resigned last month.
It has become a mind-boggling business, but general managers of other teams keep things straight when dealing with the Yankees by understanding Yankee reality.
Asked whom he calls if he wants to talk trade with the Yankees, one general manager said simply, ''George.'' He meant Steinbrenner, not Bradley.
 
PRODUCTIVE SLUGGERS
 
The hitters who drive in the most runs are not necessarily the ones who make the most efficient use of their hits. Of the 120 major league players who drove in 50 runs or more this year, these are the ones who had the highest ratio of runs batted in to hits. The last column is the percentge of runs he drove in per hit: 

$	 	 	 	 	Player	B.A.	Hits	R.B.I.	%	Jose Canseco	.269	61	57	.934	Jack Clark	.242	110	94	.855	Matt Williams	.202	59	50	.847	Mark McGwire	.231	113	95	.841	Steve Balboni	.237	71	59	.831	Kent Hrbek	.272	102	84	.824	Bo Jackson	.256	132	105	.795	Kevin Mitchell	.291	158	125	.791	Eric Davis	.281	130	101	.777	Pete Incaviglia	.236	107	81	.757	Andre Dawson	.252	105	77	.733	Darryl Strawberry	.225	107	77	.720	Nick Esasky	.277	158	108	.692	Dwight Evans	.285	148	100	.676	Joe Carter	.243	158	105	.665	
GRAPHIC: Giants' Matt Williams after scoring against the Cubs in a playoff game. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (83%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (83%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); RUNNING (57%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY MIKE SCHMIDT (63%); 



369 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: TALKING: Parking Space;
Protecting Rights in a Conversion

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
IN New York City, where garage space rents for as much as a small apartment and a single space sells for more than $20,000, it is little wonder that the right to a rent-stabilized parking space, or at least the right to retain a place on a building's waiting list, has become an issue worth fighting for.
The right to such a space has long been included in most rent-stabilized leases, provided the building had an underground or surface parking area. Charges were subject to the same limitations as the apartment itself. If a space was not immediately available, at least the tenant had the right to a place on a waiting list. 
However, according to officials and lawyers familiar with these buildings, these spaces, as they become vacant, are increasingly being ''warehoused'' by sponsors rather than being given to the next resident on the list. The sponsor is thus able to provide a purchase incentive to prospective buyers during a conversion to co-op or condominium ownership.
After conversion, most co-op corporations or condominium associations have continued to award vacated spaces exclusively to purchasers - in effect, tearing up any existing list. ''There is no doubt in my mind that preferential treatment is routinely given to buyers and existing shareholders,'' said Stuart Saft, vice president of the Council of New York Cooperatives.
Lately, however, the outcry from nonpurchasing tenants has become so loud that both the Attorney General's office, which supervises conversions, and the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the state agency supervising rent regulation, have issued statements. They were an official memorandum from the Attorney General and a public letter from Richard L. Higgins, Commissioner of the division, to the Park West Village Tenants' Association, an organization of 1,100 tenants in seven Upper West Side buildings undergoing condominium conversion. Both were intended to make certain that parking rights are no longer denied a nonpurchasing tenant during or after a conversion.
According to the Attorney General's memo, such behavior violates the General Business and Multiple Dwelling Laws. The division reaffirms that a nonpurchasing tenant must have access to the same services as existed before conversion, including the right to parking.
While the language of both documents appears to indicate that both co-op boards and sponsors must refrain in the future from such practices, lawyers maintain that such edicts may not be so easily enforced, at least in conversions that have already taken place.
Goldie Rotenberg, a Manhattan lawyer specializing in co-op conversions, maintains, for example, that the division has no control over a co-op corporation - only over the owner of an individual apartment. And while it has the authority to award the nonpurchasing tenant a decrease in rent to reflect the loss of the right to a parking space, or require reinstatement, the burden would be on the owner-investor to make good. And that investor might have to sue a reluctant co-op corporation to do so.
Adrienne Kivelson, director of program development for the division's office of Rent Administration, agrees there is a practical enforcement problem. ''We realize there are different sets of circumstances in these buildings,'' she said, ''and we are attempting to come up with solutions even if it means involving other government agencies.''
MR. SAFT expects sponsors to sue the Attorney General's office - as has happened over other issues - maintaining that it may have exceeded its authority by trying to get involved in the parking issue, especially after conversion. Office officials concede this is likely should a complaint be filed by a nonpurchasing tenant. Further, if the sponsor no longer holds a voting majority in the co-op corporation, he may insist he can do nothing anyway. ''It could become very messy,'' said Mr. Saft.
Georgia Malone, another lawyer specializing in co-op issues, asserts that nonpurchasing tenants could now be inadvertently encouraged to abuse the system. They might seek a space to make conversion more difficult or costly for the sponsor. Or they might try to profit from that right by making an under-the-table deal to sublet the parking space to an outsider.
All of which creates a profusion of new challenges for co-op corporations, condominium boards, private investors who own apartments occupied by nonpurchasing tenants and the nonpurchasing tenants themselves. All these parties might be well served by consulting a lawyer if parking rights are at issue.
However, some general guidelines can be offered. Tenants in buildings now undergoing conversion, or those slated for conversion, can rest assured that their parking rights will be better protected in future.
Mary Sabantini DiStephan, an assistant Attorney General who handles conversion plans, said that conversions of buildings with on-site parking will no longer be approved unless a plan clearly states that any tenant on a parking-space waiting list maintains that position after conversion. This was not done in the past, she said, because ''we had been unaware of this sort of violation.''
However, if the garage or parking area was never part of the building's regular services and mentioned in the lease, but instead was owned or operated as a totally independent business, the residents will not be able to gain any such rights, she noted.
After conversion, she added, the owner of an apartment occupied by a nonpurchasing tenant may, in some instances, be required to make up the difference between the market-rate for that parking space and the rent- regulated amount, as is now being done on the apartment itself.
Not necessarily so, argues Ms. Rotenberg. The responsibility for paying the difference could also hinge on other matters, such as past policy of the co-op corporation concerning nonpurchasing tenants who already have spaces or the language of any lease held by a garage operator toward subsidizing such tenants.
Ms. Rotenberg also said that tenants and investors should be aware that the responsibility of a co-op corporation to reinstitute parking rights to nonpurchasing tenants could also be governed by the language of the conversion plan. Some older plans did, in fact, guarantee those rights to renters, thus binding the corporation. A careful check, she said, may therefore be warranted before further action is considered.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL BUSINESS SYSTEMS (52%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PARKING RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); LAWYERS (88%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE



370 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 20, Column 6; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Dune Law

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your article on Michigan's lakefront-dune law [''Battlelines Form on Michigan's New Rules,'' Aug. 13] describes the development of dune property, but falls short in discussing the complex issues of what constitutes a ''taking'' when the private use of a natural resource, e.g. a lakefront dune, is circumscribed by concerns for public welfare.
It ignores recent United States Supreme Court decisions supporting laws limiting the extent to which property owners can exploit a resource if such use is detrimental to the public welfare, i.e., Keystone Bituminous Coal Association v. DeBenedictis. 
In this case, the Court noted that ''long ago it was recognized that all property in this country is held under the implied obligation that the owner's use of it shall not be injurious to the community.'' The Michigan legislation is premised on the belief that the protection and preservation of dunes closest to the water are in the interest of the whole community. Overall, the Supreme Court has been inconsistent in its rulings on what constitutes a ''taking.''
Furthermore, conservationists argue that the protection of these dunes is the state's responsibility under the so-called ''public trust doctrine'' - the obligation of the state to protect the public's common heritage in streams and navigable waters. They say it should be extended to include protection of various environmental and ecological resources. The Michigan Legislature in enacting the lakefront-dune law appears to be fulfilling its obligation as public trustee for this complex ecological resource vital to the Michigan public.
The controversy surrounding the Michigan law points to the problems of reconciling the protection of complex environmental resources with existing laws protecting private property.
 
STEVEN E. KRAFT
 Carbondale, Ill.
 
The writer is a professor in the Department of Agribusiness Economics at Southern Illinois University at Carbondale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (83%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MICHIGAN

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); WRITERS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); COAL INDUSTRY (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 



371 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living in: Fort Greene

BYLINE: By YANICK RICE LAMB

 BODY:
WHEN Fort Greene residents want a night on the town, they can stay close to home. At the Brooklyn Academy of Music and its Majestic Theater, there is everything from ballet to opera to jazz. Sheila's Restaurant offers such musicians as the violinist Noel Pointer, and drama and comedy can be found at the Cecil Alonzo Theater, the Paul Robeson Theater and the Restoration Project Theater Company.
''It's a lot like Greenwich Village, but not as funky,'' said Eric Allison, a local historian who owns a brownstone on Lafayette Avenue. ''There are a lot of artists who live here.'' The neighborhood also has the 1929 Williamsburgh Bank Building, surmounted by a clock tower with four faces, each 27 feet in diameter. At 512 feet, the building is Brooklyn's tallest. And that's not all, for all three of the city's subway lines traverse the neighborhood. Richard Sommer, a vice president in corporate bond trading at Drexel Burnham Lambert, said that it took him 35 minutes to reach lower Manhattan when he lived on the Upper West Side. He now has a 10-minute commute from Fort Greene, where he recently bought a brownstone on Carlton Avenue for $475,000. 
''We have a jumble of all different styles of architecture on any given block,'' said Mr. Allison, a member of the Fort Greene Landmarks Preservation Committee, referring to the Brooklyn Academy of Music and Fort Greene Historic Districts. In 1983, he and his wife, Mary Ann, paid $115,000 for an 1857 Italianate brownstone, one of many rooming houses carved out of what were once fine homes during the Depression. They spent $100,000 more to renovate the four-story structure. Such brownstones - many of which have been divided into two and four units over the years - now sell for as much as $500,000, said Earl Drummond of Renaissance Properties. Houses in the $300,000 range go quickly, he added. Audrey Edwards of Plaza Properties recently sold a boarded-up, four-family house on Clermont Avenue for $275,000.
Fort Greene has a handful of large co-op apartment buildings, among them the 200-unit Griffin on Lafayette Avenue at South Oxford Street and University Towers, three 15-story towers at Willoughby Street and Ashland Place. Studios and one-bedrooms at the Griffin are $50,000 to $110,000, with a two-bedroom penthouse for $200,000. At University Towers, prices are $42,000 to $141,000 for studios to three-bedroom apartments in a conversion that is expected to be declared effective soon.
MR. DRUMMOND said both co-ops and rentals - one bedrooms for $650 to $850 and two-bedrooms for $850 to $1,400 - are readily available.
Just five years ago, co-ops were as low as $30,000 and some rentals were a few hundred dollars. In 1976, Melba Tolliver, an anchor for ''News 12 Long Island,'' paid $60,000 for a five-story rooming house on Lafayette. The 1863 Italianate brownstone, which was featured in the 1988 Fort Greene House Tour and has two duplexes and a floor-through apartment, was recently appraised at $500,000.
Prices started climbing in 1978 after both historic districts were designated by the city that year. The market was further stimulated by the flurry of development by the architect Stephen B. Jacobs and others, as well as the anticipation of the Metrotech office complex, which is under construction close by in downtown Brooklyn.
The wave of renewal has not, as it has in some communities, wiped out the racial, ethnic and economic diversity in Fort Greene - a fact that residents, almost without exception, note with pride. More than half of the 42,000 residents are black, some the descendants of shipbuilders who settled there in the mid-1800's.
An Italian settler, Pieter Cesar, became the first resident in the 17th century. The ferries that began operating in the early 1800's made it convenient for businessmen and skilled laborers to live in Brooklyn and commute to Manhattan. By the 1850's, residential development had spread beyond Brooklyn Heights to Fort Greene, where farmers had subdivided and sold their land. Wealthier residents began to head for the suburbs in the late 19th century, and by the mid-20th century, many houses had fallen into disrepair.
Many say Fort Greene still carries an undeserved reputation for crime. ''Fort Greene has been fortunate in the recent crime epidemic,'' said Abigail Golde, publisher of The Hill, a community newsletter. Even Ms. Tolliver, who has been mugged and whose house has been broken into several times over the years, has noticed some change. ''I don't think it's as bad as it was,'' she said. ''I see fewer people just hanging around.''
''There's more crime in Brooklyn Heights than there is over here,'' said Emile Dufau, a detective at the 88th Precinct, which covers Fort Greene. ''I think this community is a very good community to live in.''
In the 88th Precinct, there were 5,680 felonies and 4,131 misdemeanors in 1988. In the 84th Precinct, which includes Brooklyn Heights, felonies and misdemeanors for the same period numbered 6,501 and 6,488, respectively.
RESIDENTS also value the 33-acre Fort Greene Park, designed by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, who also designed Central and Prospect Parks. Rising from its center is the 1908 Prison Ship Martyrs' Monument, designed by Stanford White and honoring 11,500 Americans who died on British ships in Wallabout Bay - later the site of the Brooklyn Navy Yard. During the Revolutionary War, George Washington retreated to Manhattan from what is now the park but then was Fort Putnam.
Today, tennis on six courts and jogging are among the activities at the park, which was featured in Spike Lee's film ''She's Gotta Have It.'' Mr. Lee, who lives across the street on Washington Park, recently renovated a building on St. Felix Street for his Mo' Better Movie Company. His 40 Acres and a Mule Filmworks is around the corner on Dekalb Avenue.
Across from the park is Brooklyn Technical High School, which accepts students by citywide examination. The school offers its 4,600 students 12 majors, including computer science, biomedicine and engineering. ''Virtually 100 percent of our students graduate,'' said the principal, John P. Tobin. ''We get many capable, well-prepared young people from the local schools,'' he added. Among them are P.S. 20, or the Clinton Hill School, on Adelphi Street and Junior High School 113, known as the Ronald Edmonds Learning Center, on Clermont. Both schools stress integrated learning, which incorporates subjects like science into other classes, said Argie K. Johnson, Superintendent of Community School District 13.
J.H.S. 113 has five tracks, or subschools, for media communications, performing arts, the gifted, business/technology and special education. The Jacques D'Amboise Dance Company and Il Piccolo Teatro dell'Opera have also taught classes at the school. P.S. 20 also offers special education and programs for the gifted.
Also in Fort Greene are the Roman Catholic Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School and Queen of All Saints elementary school and the Brooklyn campus of Long Island University, which is on the site of the old Brooklyn Paramount Theater.
If residents could make any changes in Fort Greene, they would add a large supermarket and a few more shops to supplement those beginning to open on Fulton and Myrtle. Among the popular restaurants are Sheila's, Cino's, Cellar's, Greene's Grill, Miss Ann's and Two Steps Down, which is doubling its seating capacity from 50 to 110 in response to demand.
Mr. Jacobs, who recently opened General Greene's Emporium on South Portland, which sells gourmet food and housewares, said he might consider more commercial development. ''If we don't lose our shirts with this store,'' he said, ''maybe.''
 
GAZETTEER
 
Population: 42,000 (1989 estimate).
 
Median family income: $23,000 (1986 estimate).
 
Median price of brownstone: $350,000.
 
Median price of one-bedroom co-op: $92,500.
 
Median rent of one-bedroom apartment: $750.
 
Distance to midtown Manhattan: 6 miles.
 
Rush-hour commutation to midtown: 20 minutes by A, B, C, D, G, M, N, Q, R, 2, 3, 4 and 5 trains.
 
Government: Councilwoman Mary Pinkett (Democrat-Liberal).
 
Generally Speaking: Fort Greene Park is named for Gen. Nathaniel Greene, who supervised the building of a line of Brooklyn fortifications in 1776 that included the present park site. It was first known as Fort Putnam - for Gen. Rufus Putnam, who designed the fort itself - and it soon fell to the British in the Battle of Long Island. In the War of 1812, it was rebuilt and renamed Fort Greene. The park's architects, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, named it Washington Park, but residents persisted in calling it Fort Greene Park and the name stuck.

GRAPHIC: Queen of All Saints Church on Lafayette Street in the Fort Greene Historic District; brownstones lining South Portland Street (The New York Times/John Sotomayor); map of Fort Greene section of Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK BUILDING CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; FORT GREENE (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); DANCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); THEATER (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); HISTORY (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); CORPORATE BONDS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (68%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); 

PERSON: LAMB, YANICK RICE BEN NELSON (53%); 



372 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 16, Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: DATA UPDATE: October 15, 1989

 BODY:

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
 
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; PRICES; INTEREST (MONEY) REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); HOME PRICES (73%); 



373 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 26, Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Business Survey Finds Confidence in State Down

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
IN a survey of 1,200 state businesses, the Connecticut Business and Industry Association last week said that it had found a profound lack of confidence in the state government's economic policies.
The association, the state's largest pro-business lobby, said that the approval of $800 million in new state taxes this year ''has eroded employers' confidence in Connecticut as a good place to do business'' and that three out of five businesses surveyed would be more likely to relocate out of state than in Connecticut. 
These are the main findings of the survey, which was made public on Wednesday:
* Fully 85 percent of Connecticut's businesses lack confidence in the state government's ability to make decisions that will strengthen the state's economy; 55 percent said they were ''not very confident'' in state government, and 30 percent said they were ''not at all confident.''
* Sixty-two percent said they would be most likely to relocate in or expand to another state if they were to expand or move their companies; 36 percent said they would expand in Connecticut.
* Anti-Connecticut sentiment was highest among manufacturing businesses: 73 percent of them said they would either relocate or expand out of state.
Of those who said they would relocate or expand out of state, 62 percent said their primary reason for leaving would be lower business taxes.
The survey found one trend encouraging to businesses: the state's labor shortage appears to be easing.
The percentage of businesses that said they were having difficulty finding professional workers dropped to 27 percent this year, from 44 percent last year. The shortage of technical workers dropped to 45 percent, from 64 percent last year, and the shortage of production workers dropped to 55 percent from 79 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); TRENDS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAX RELIEF (71%); 



374 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 13, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: House Built by Students Awaits a Buyer and Site

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

DATELINE: TOMS RIVER

 BODY:
IT is apparent that real estate is in a slump when a new two-bedroom house in Ocean County is advertised at $16,000 for four months and does not sell.
This house, however, does not have a yard, or any land at all. This is a house without a home.
''It's the third one we've built,'' said Ray Gudzak, a teacher at the Ocean County Vocational-Technical School, ''and I have to tell you, I'm disappointed.'' 
Mr. Gudzak teaches construction technology at the 1,700-student vocational school here. For the last three years, students in his class have designed and built a house, beam by beam, from the ground up.
 
'I Built That House'
When the house is finished, usually in June, and after the annual ''post-construction party'' (''Hamburgers, hot dogs, girlfriends and boyfriends,'' Mr. Gudzak said), the building is sold at auction and the proceeds used to finance the next year's project.
This year's sale was to be held during the Aug. 15 school board meeting. Advertisements were placed in local newspapers, and throughout the summer students who participated in the project would pass by with their friends, point to the building and say, ''I built that house.''
In years past, spirited bidding usually drove the price a few thousand dollars above the $16,000 minimum bid. But this year, something went wrong.
''I couldn't believe it,'' Mr. Gudzak said recently. ''I got to the August school board meeting and no one was there.''
The sale was postponed a few weeks, he said, and then a few weeks more, while school officials waited for bidders to appear.
 
No Lack of Bidders Before
''The bottom just dropped out of the real-estate market,'' said the school principal, George Sampson, Jr. ''We've never had any trouble selling the houses before.''
John Dusenbery, 18 years old, a student who worked on the project, said: ''I know it isn't us. I know we did a bang-up job on that house.''
Mr. Gudzak agrees. ''This is a great accomplishment for the boys,'' he said. ''They worked hard; it's a good house.''
One of the problems, Mr. Sampson said, is that the house had to be designed relatively small to keep moving costs to a minimum. But at 1,072 square feet, the building fails to meet the minimum zoning requirements of many towns in the area.
In addition, he said, whoever buys the house must already own the land to put it on and have the funds needed to complete the interior. The kitchen and bath must be installed, the walls need Sheetrock and painting, and the floors must be finished and covered. The cost to finish the building is estimated to be $30,000.
 
A Bidder Appears
''We had some newlyweds who wanted to buy it,'' Mr. Sampson said, ''but they wanted us to provide the financing.''
This was not exactly the kind of deal school officials were hoping for. So they continued waiting until finally a bidder appeared.
''Yes, we do have an offer,'' Mr. Sampson said. ''It's from a gentleman who has a summer place in Ortley Beach with an old cottage on it. He's going to tear that down and put this house on the property.''
The bidder, John Blysick of the Bronx, is waiting for his offer to be officially accepted at the school board meeting on Tuesday.
While he waits, he is busy obtaining estimates from house movers who will haul the building from Toms River to Ortley Beach, a distance of about 14 miles. ''I'm thinking in terms of about five grand for the move,'' Mr. Blysick said. His offer, which has not been disclosed, would make ''an economically nice package'' if it is accepted, he said.
 
Lumber Shed to be Built
School officials said that one other bid had been received, but that Mr. Blysick's offer was the better of the two.
Meanwhile, Mr. Gudzak and his class have dropped out of the residential construction business - for this year at least.
''We're building a 75-foot-long lumber shed for the school,'' Mr. Gudzak said. ''We really needed a place to store materials anyway.''
Although his students are happy that the house is finally being sold, they are a little sad to see it go.
Robert McCann, 18, one of the builders, said, ''I'd buy it if I had some property, - and some money.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: OCEAN COUNTY VOCATIONAL-TECHNICAL SCHOOL (TOMS RIVER, NJ)

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SCHOOL BOARDS (66%); ZONING (66%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY; SAMPSON, GEORGE



375 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 24, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY OPINION;
When the Aged Need Care, Their Families Need a Hand

BYLINE: By John Paul Marosy; John Paul Marosy is president of the Center for Home Health Development, a Princeton-based nonprofit research and education organization for improving home health care.

 BODY:
A WOMAN in Middlesex County has worked for her company 10 years. Over the last two years, she has spent much of her time caring for her widowed mother, who is partly paralyzed from a stroke. Her mother has become confused, and she fears being left alone in the house they share.
Preoccupied with her mother's needs, the woman scoots home from work on her lunch hour to check on her mother; she loses time from work taking her to several doctors. She is constantly fatigued, and she knows her work is slipping as she struggles to maintain her mother at home. She cannot afford to pay someone to stay with her mother. 
Nearing the breaking point, she requests a short leave of absence to stabilize her home situation. Her request is refused, and seeing no alternative, she resigns.
A couple in their 50's are more fortunate because the husband works for a company that offers an elder-care benefit. With one teen-age daughter left living with them in their northern New Jersey home, they were looking forward to a relatively calm fall and to their first winter getaway vacation in years. Then the husband's 80-year-old mother fell and broke her hip.
The husband travels extensively to meet job demands, so his wife agreed to adjust her part-time work schedule to help his parents. She soon discovered what so many families learn when they are faced with caring for an elderly relative: finding the help needed can be a time-consuming and emotionally overwhelming task.
The wife was spending four hours a day making the round-trip drive to the Jersey Shore community where her husband's parents live, stopping at the hospital, then preparing lunch and an evening meal that the elderly father could heat and eat later.
Soon, the wife began calling in late and sometimes missing work altogether as she tried to juggle her life to care for her husband's parents. Her husband found his productivity falling off; he worried about his father's safety and found himself distracted from work priorities. Then the husbband learned about an ''elder-care hot line'' offered by his company.
His wife called the service, and a trained counselor helped her think through all the options for care. Then, by tapping a statewide computerized data base of all elder services, she helped find a homemaker who now cooks and cleans for the father. The counselor also made a referral to a family counseling service to address the longer-term issues facing the middle-aged couple and the husband's parents.
While a significant number of employers now recognize the benefits of assisting employees with child-care needs, only a few pioneering companies offer any help for employees caring for their elderly relatives. However, the number is likely to increase because a projected labor shortage in New Jersey will be complicated by unprecedented demands on families to care for their elderly relatives. Pending state legislation would require provision of unpaid dependent-care leave.
The State Department of Labor projects that by 1995 our economy will create 100,000 more jobs than there will be qualified workers to fill them. Therefore, retaining good workers will be crucially important, and more than 1.5 million of those workers are women.
In the 1980's employment in New Jersey grew at a rate exceeding that of any other industrial state in the Northeast or Midwest. That growth was fueled largely by women who entered the work force. Today, over 70 percent of women between the ages of 35 and 54 are employed outside the home.
Wives, daughters, nieces and granddaughters have traditionally cared for the old in our society. Today, 70 percent of all home care for the aged is provided by family members, the majority of whom are women.
Only Florida has an population older than New Jersey's (by median age), and the number of our residents over 75 years old is projected to increase by 60 percent over the next decade, from the current 368,000 to 588,000. This fact is especially important because people over 75 are twice as likely to require assistance with dressing, eating, toileting, etc., than their counterparts between the ages of 65 and 74.
Addressing elder-care needs differs from child care because the needs of children are more predictable and because we, as individuals, and our institutions are plagued by a fear of aging: our own aging and that of our parents. Therefore, we tend to avoid thinking about or planning for meeting the needs that accompany the decline of mental and physical health in old age.
As a result, we experience the onset of elder-care needs as a ''crisis,'' an event that disrupts our usual routine. In our everyday lives, most of us tend to deny the changes that signal our parents' loss of good health and independence.
Recent studies show that over 20 percent of all employees provide assistance to one or more elders, and 30 to 50 percent of these caregivers have at least one dependent child at home. The stresses felt by those in this ''sandwich'' generation are considerable.
The adverse effects include economic strain and mental and physical illness. These translate into tardiness, extensive phone calls, excessive absenteeism, unscheduled time off and loss of productivity due to lost concentration because of concern for a dependent relative at home.
What can be done? Caregivers responding to a survey by the American Association of Retired Persons say they need time and timely information to cope with their stresses. Recognizing this, some employers now offer flexible work time, unpaid caregiver leave and dependent-care spending accounts under flexible benefits plans.
To fill the information gap, other companies distribute information handbooks and videotapes, conduct care-giving fairs that bring community agency representatives onto the worksite and offer lunchtime seminars and professionally run support groups in which caregivers share problems and ideas.
With fewer qualified workers chasing more jobs in the 1990's, job seekers will shop for the position that offers the best opportunity to strike a balance between work and family responsibilities.
Flexibility and creativity in benefits offerings will make a difference in recruiting and retaining employees. The workplace is the focal point of most of our lives today. It is fast becoming the backdrop against which we will grapple with a central family issue of our time: long-term care for our aged relatives.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: AGED FAMILY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (88%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); BONE FRACTURES (74%); AGING (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (64%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: MAROSY, JOHN PAUL



376 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 18, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Interned Artists, Devoid of Grievance

BYLINE: By VIVIEN RAYNOR

DATELINE: HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON

 BODY:
''WE had to make friends with the wild creatures in the camp, especially the spiders, mice and rats, because we were outnumbered.''
That description was of a camp at the Tanforan Racetrack near San Francisco, one of several centers in California where Japanese and Japanese-American residents (Issei and Nisei) were held before being interned in areas remote from the West Coast. The quote comes from ''Citizen 13660,'' a humorous but pointed account of this reaction to the bombing of Pearl Harbor that was first published in 1946.
Mine Okubo is the author; she is also one of the contributors to ''From Bleakness,'' the Gallery at Hastings-on-Hudson's show of art and artifacts made in Tanforan and elsewhere, organized by Gary Bates, Robert Donald and Kitty Herman Nakagawa. 
In a history of cruelty, Executive Order 9066 would not rank high; the one fatality recorded by Ms. Okubo, although it was never fully explained, resulted in the camp guards being relieved of their weapons. Nevertheless, the economic and emotional effects of the internment were severe, and the United States Government has yet to make good on its promises of reparations.
Whatever the reason - a sense of historical perspective, an acceptance of racism as an inevitability, cultural identity or a mixture of all three - the artists in this show seem devoid of grievance. One is reminded of the well-known Issei, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, who although not interned seems never to have felt free of the obligation to prove his loyalty during the war.
The landscapes of Byron Takashi Tsuzuki owe something to Kuniyoshi, whom he may have known as a teacher when studying at the Art Students League. His technique, however, is more expressionistic, and there are touches of humor in his scenes of the Utah camp, where inmates do their laundry and play shogi despite continual dust storms. Shogi is a board game involving 20 pieces inscribed with characters. Mr. Tsuzuki carved the example in the show - perhaps at the same time his wife was crocheting the yellow blouse also on view.
Henry Sugimoto shows the influence of Kuniyoshi, too, but only in ''My Papa,'' a large painting of a young man being escorted from his farm by a brown-suited official as his wife and child and a small dog look on. It is not an autobiographical image, the painter having been already established and a father himself at the time of the internment; it is, rather, a statement about the whole episode and, as such, is the closest the show gets to politics.
Mr. Sugimoto's other images are of daily activities that are sometimes expressionistic, sometimes a little naive in style, but that are always cheerful in atmosphere.
Koho Yamamoto, the daughter of a calligrapher and herself the founder of a school for sumi brush drawing in Manhattan, is represented by relatively recent works in this style, as well as conventional watercolors of camp landscape. Ms. Yamamoto, a Nisei born in 1922, studied with a sumi artist in her camp but may also have profited from Abstract Expressionists who were influenced by Japanese calligraphy.
Dates are few and far between in the show, which makes it hard to tell first-hand impressions from reminiscences. Ms. Okubo's original drawings for her book illustrations are lighthearted; her charcoals of stylized figures with heavy outlines are somber and imply the influence of Picasso as it was sustained by artists like Bernard Buffet and Ben Shahn.
Then there are her small caseins - which are similar to watercolors -of camp workers done in a Work Projects Administration-chunky style; before her incarceration, Ms. Okubo was in the Federal Art Project doing mosaics and murals for the United States Army in California. She was released in 1944, when Fortune magazine invited her to help illustrate an issue about Japan and has since been fully occupied as a painter, an illustrator and a writer.
Cracks are to be found in some paintings but, on the whole, the works have been remarkably well-preserved - some in the Japanese-American National Museum in Los Angeles, others in private collections. A spectacle that includes a Buddhist shrine and its accoutrements by Hanzo Takesako (Hara), it should be an affecting experience (and an object lesson) for all Americans.
But for this observer it is the craft items that are the most moving. They run from Kobu carvings that are tree stumps altered and polished, to miniature getas (Japanese clogs) with painted decorations. Outstanding, however, are the tiny replicas of stringed instruments by Tom Kanda; James Haruju Saito's lapel pins that are birds carved from wood and painted; and the embroideries of Isaburo Nagahama. The most beautiful of these is an impression of green and yellow mountains on a blue-black background. As a 75-year-old former teacher of the art, Mr. Nagahama can't have rated high as a security risk. But he was interned, nevertheless, and imparted his skills to innumerable inmates.
A symposium on the internment will be held today at 2:30 P.M., in the Masters School Theater, at 49 Clinton Avenue in Dobbs Ferry. The show can be seen through Nov. 5, Wednesdays through Sundays from noon to 5 P.M. The gallery is in the Municipal Building on Maple Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photo of work by Mine Okubo; work by Henry Sugimoto; work by Koho Yamamoto

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); ART SHOWS; JAPANESE-AMERICANS ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); HISTORY (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); RODENTS (73%); BOMBINGS (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); WRITERS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (68%); BOARD GAMES (67%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (50%); 

PERSON: RAYNOR, VIVIEN



377 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 22, Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Reaction Sought on Greenway Proposal

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

 BODY:
COUNTY residents will have a chance this week to comment on the state's ''greenway'' concept, a plan to preserve the Hudson River Valley by creating a chain of interlocking parks, trails and recreation sites from New York City to Albany.
Legislation signed more than a year ago by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo calls for preserving scenic, environmental and cultural resources along the Hudson River, as well as encouraging public access to its shores. The goal, say its sponsors, is to develop a coordinated open-space plan that would be compatible with economic development.
The Hudson River Valley Greenway Council will hold a public meeting at Philipsburg Manor in Tarrytown on Friday at 1 P.M. The meeting is the seventh in a series being conducted statewide by the 19-member council. 
''People seem to realize that this is the last chance an agency or any group will have to save the Hudson,'' said David S. Sampson, the executive director of the council, who added that public interest in the greenway plan has been high.
Describing a growing concern about the future of the Hudson River, he said increasing public access to the river was emerging as as major priority at the meetings.
 
Solutions Seem Complicated
''People are becoming concerned that the river and the historic and ecologically significant values it represents aren't going to be around much longer,'' said Klara Sauer, a member of the council and executive director of Scenic Hudson, the Poughkeepsie-based environmental group. ''Change is happening so fast, and the solutions seem so complicated. The Greenway Council meetings provide an opportunity to participate in something very important.''
The greenway concept is not a new idea. Its roots extend from the hunting preserves of medieval times to the linear parks that define the Bronx River and Taconic Parkways. But environmentalists and planners have become increasingly concerned that the country as a whole is running out of ''green.''
In l987, the President's Commission on Americans Outdoors proposed the creation of a ''Greenway for America,'' a national network of trails and wildlife corridors. The Hudson Valley Greenway Council represents one of the most ambitious attempt to carry out the commission's ideas.
Earlier attempts to develop a coordinated approach to development in the Hudson Valley have been short-lived because proposed state actions were perceived as threatening the home-rule powers of local officials.
 
Some Delicacy Is Wanted
Municipal officials have testified at Greenway Council meetings that they need help in controlling development, Mr. Sampson said, but the council is aware that it ''walks a thin line - people want help, but they don't want it with a club.''
The Greenway Council, Mr. Sampson said, ''is trying to describe a mechanism whereby communities can control growth along the proposed greenway but, where necessary, receive aid and guidance from New York State.''
If the council succeeds in its objectives, Mr. Sampson said, ''it will be a matter of thinking more creatively about how you mix uses'' and sharing that knowledge with the local communities.
The Greenway Council, for example, would provide municipalities with information about the effect a proposed development would have on the surrounding area. Its Geographic Mapping Program will include an inventory of all public lands and private green space along the 154-mile proposed greenway corridor.
''If someone comes along and wants to build a condominium development,'' Mr. Sampson said, ''a community will at least be able to look at our computer-software program and see there's a trail here, and a trail there, and be able to determine the effect of the condo immediately.'' The mapping program will be distributed to communities throughout the Hudson Valley.
Although some private property owners are ''very fearful of a land grab,'' Mr. Sampson said, the Greenway Council hopes instead to act as a resource. It would, for example, he said, explain to municipalities and to private landowners how to achieve public access through conservation easements, in which landowners donate or sell rights in their property to a public agency in return for tax benefits.
 
Recommendations by March
After completing the public meetings next month, the Greenway Council plans to release a draft of its recommendations by March 1. A round of public hearings on those recommendations will follow.
The Legislature has imposed a November l990 deadline for the council to submit its recommendations and its draft legislation designating the lands and waters that would make up the proposed greenway. The deadline also applies to recommendations for the historic trails in urban settings that could be included in the greenway and to financial estimates of the cost of implementing the plan.
The Greenway Council is also charged with determining which management agencies have jurisdiction over particular public lands along the greenway. Many state agencies are unaware they own certain parcels of land, Mr. Sampson said, ''because of poor record keeping.''
In some cases, the actions of a state agency, such as the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, have prevented public access to open spaces, Mr. Sampson said. Speakers before the Greenway Council have complained about losing public access to the river as the M.T.A. steps up its removal of graded crossings for safety reasons.
 
Access to Park in Ossining
Natalie H. Macintosh, the assistant village manager of Ossining, appeared at the July meeting of the Greenway Council in Rockland County to plead for state help in providing access over the railroad to the river.
A two-acre park in the historic Sparta area of Ossining has been cut off since the Metro-North Commuter Railroad removed the old graded crossing, extended the third rail and put up a fence, Mrs. Macintosh told the council.
Recently completed engineering studies estimated the cost of constructing a pedestrian foot crossing over the railroad to the park at $500,000 to $750,000, Mrs. Macintosh said.
''I told the Greenway Council one of their concerns should be the railroad,'' Mrs. Macintosh said last week. ''We feel the railroad and the state have a responsibility to provide access across the tracks, and this should be addressed by the greenway study.''
Thirty speakers have signed up to testify before the Council on Friday. They represent conservation groups, municipal officials and developers.
Public comment is being encouraged on such issues as the physical and conceptual definition of the greenway, methods of providing better access to the Hudson, the kinds of economic development that would be most compatible with the valley and the role of the state in forming the greenway.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Natalie H. MacIntosh with Richard Schartz (NYT/Joyce Dopkeen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRONXVILLE (NY)

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER) LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COUNTIES (79%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (79%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); WILDLIFE (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA



378 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 10; Page 21, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: NORTHEAST NOTEBOOK: Winthrop, Me.;
Main St. Renewal

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE

 BODY:
A BUILDING that for decades dominated Main Street in this central Maine city has been moved back 150 feet to make room for a parking lot, dramatically changing the streetscape and making some residents unhappy.
The 150-year-old clapboard building had for 30 years been Grant's Variety Store and was destined for demolition by the city as part of a downtown redevelopment plan. It planned to buy the building and tear it down with money from a state community development block grant. 
But the owner, Walter Stanley, who operates a jewelry store from the building, said he refused to let it be torn down because it would cost at least $300,000 to build a new one elsewhere. In January, the city offered to pay for moving it.
''At first, I was dead against it,'' said Mr. Stanley. ''I was going to fight the town and not let them move my building. But now I'm enthusiastic. I think it's going to be good for the town.''
The city paid him $52,000, the estimate for moving the building ($19,500) and building a new foundation ($9,500), with the rest for repairing any damage and doing minor restoration. But construction problems have increased the cost to more than $80,000, and Mr. Stanley had to pay the difference.
His store will share the first floor of the remodeled 10,000-square-foot building with an appliance store. The second floor will be three rental apartments.
Tom Gordon, the city's code enforcement officer, said some residents in this town of 5,600 were not happy with the way the downtown looks now that the building has been moved back.
The once-solid wall of buildings has a hole where the store once stood. The buildings that flanked the jewelery store remain flush with the sidewalk. Several townspeople have said they hope landscaping of the parking lot will improve the way the downtown looks.
The city's revitalization plan also includes rebuilding sidewalks and installing decorative street lights to complement the downtown's mix of brick buildings, most of which were built more than a century ago. The street has a variety of businesses, including a telephone company office, an arts and crafts shop, a barber shop and a market. On both ends of the street, stately clapboard homes have been turned into offices for doctors, lawyers and other professionals.
''It used to be that property owners never did anything with their property,'' Mr. Stanley said. ''I was ashamed to think this was the town I grew up with. I think it looks better now.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A Northeast Notebook item on Oct. 15 about redevelopment in Winthrop, Me., misidentified the former variety store that was moved. It was Wilson's, not Grant's.

GRAPHIC: Retail building, moved back 150 feet from street line in Winthrop, Me. (The New York Times/Gary Guisinger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRANT'S VARIETY STORE (WINTHROP, ME)

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE URBAN DEVELOPMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN



379 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 3, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT Q&A: GARY M. YOUNG;
'I Think We're Middle of the Road'

BYLINE: By ANDI RIERDEN

 BODY:
GARY M. YOUNG'S portrait of the state of the arts in Connecticut would excite even the most jaded listener. Last year alone, said Mr. Young, the executive director of the Connecticut Commission on the Arts, the nonprofit arts industry generated $354 million. In addition, the arts employed 12,300 people and attracted an audience of more than 8.5 million people.
Connecticut's per capita income, the highest in the country, has been the main force behind the expanding art world, he said. But on the downside, the marketplace for talented new artists remains limited, he said, because of the disinterest of some art presenters in venturesome work. And a flurry of gallery closings has narrowed the market even further.
Under Mr. Young's direction, the commission uses its $2.2 million budget to provide funds to individual artists, arts organizations and arts presenters. It also provides an arts information network and support services to artists. 
Prior to his appointment in 1981, Mr. Young was the executive director of the Oregon Arts Foundation for eight years.
In an interview in his Hartford office, Mr. Young discussed the commission, arts education and the controversial exhibit of photographs by Robert Mapplethorpe, which will open at the Wadsworth Atheneum on Oct. 21. Here are some excerpts from the conversation:
Q. What has been the response to the upcoming Mapplethorpe exhibit?
A. So far people are just musing about it. Candidly, we just got an inquiry from our legislative budget people asking us how much money we give to the Atheneum. I think I know why that question's being asked now. Other than that, the Governor's office wants us to respond to a letter sent there from someone who was really outraged about the Mapplethorpe show.
Q. Do you think that there is any justification for Jesse Helms's crusade to cut Government funding art deemed ''obscene or indecent?''
A. No I don't. We have a Constitution that defends the right to expression as long as it's not pornographic, and we have courts and guidelines to determine whether or not that's the case. Helms and his people may be outraged about Mapplethorpe, but I'm just as outraged about the Ku Klux Klan. Yet, the Constitution gives them the right to gather and express freely their views as long as they don't threaten to overthrow the Government.
One of Helms's arguments is that it's O.K. to express yourself but you can't necessarily use public funding for it. I feel that the Constitution applies to every area, not just those funded or not funded by the Government. There should be no distinction.
When I was going to divinity school in the 1960's, I had a professor who taught a course in religion and literature. He also had been a witness in the Henry Miller ''Tropic of Cancer'' censorship trial. His argument was that an artist's role is to explore all the avenues of human experience, to interpret what is real. I think that the same applies to Mapplethorpe. It just so happens that the areas of sexual experience he's interested in aren't acceptable in the mainstream.
Q. Are Connecticut art audiences generally conservative?
A. Connecticut audiences are pretty mainstream. You don't have a critical mass like you do in New York City. But it's not fair to hold ourselves up to the yardstick of New York because its art world is exceptional. We can't compare ourselves to that large of a population and cultural base. If we compare ourselves to other parts of New England or the country, I think we're middle of the road. We're certainly not on the edge. That seems to be the mood with most of the country.
For instance, theater in the United States is not by a long shot doing the most adventuresome work. Mark Lamos, the artistic director at Hartford Stage Company, says he is so tired of American theater concentrating on three characters in a kitchen. He says that when we come to the theater, we should come to attest to mysteries, to hear oracles, not always to be comforted by visions of ourselves but to be confronted with dangerous and beautifully wicked provocations.
I think Hartford Stage is one place where audiences can go to expand their expectations. ''Peer Gynt'' was beautifully provocative and also sold out.
Q. What is Connecticut's artistic claim to fame?
A. Connecticut's art world is really marked in a lot of ways by its theater. Connecticut produces more plays on stage per year than Broadway. We have the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center, which is a laboratory for new plays. The Goodspeed Opera now has a laboratory for musicals. Yale Repertory has a winter festival. Long Wharf has its Stage II. Almost all of these theaters have produced plays that have later got Tony Awards. Outside of New York, you probably won't find that number of exceptional nationally known theaters.
Then we have all the smaller theaters, such as the Boston Stage Company, the Downtown Cabaret and Lucille Lortel's White Barn Theater. The theater here both preserves traditions and advances the new edge of what's happening.
Q. Why don't we see more nationally renowned artists exhibiting in Connecticut?
A. It would be wonderful to see a retrospective of Robert Motherwell's work or Helen Frankenwaller's, both Connecticut residents, but in some ways there's not an expansive commitment to contemporary art. We have the venues such as the Yale Art Gallery, one of the most prominent university galleries in the United States. We have the Wadsworth Atheneum, the New Britain Museum of American Art and the Aldrich.
I think the problem is that those institutions have scaled down their aspirations. Those aspirations revolve mainly around economic resources. It takes money and staff to put on a major show. Also, if you don't have a track record of presenting major artists, then you won't be able to draw major artists to exhibit.
Q. Has the market expanded for Connecticut artists?
A. We have a program called Art in Public Spaces where 1 percent of every state office building is devoted to works of art. The commission also invites artists to propose a show, and we'll look at it and decide if it's something we can exhibit. Typically, we focus on artists we've given fellowships to. We also try to seek out artists who don't get seen very much.
The traditional art gallery area isn't improving very much. They open and close. In New Haven five years ago there were bundles of little galleries that are now gone. A new development are the art consultants who fell to Connecticut-based corporations. In that area more money is being spent on Connecticut artists than on New York artists.
Q. What about opportunities for a minority artist?
A. In our Heritage Arts and Storytellers programs, we try to call attention to the fact that we live in a multiracial culture of African-Americans, Asian-Americans and Latino-Americans, that there are many different versions of our culture. We've made a big effort to recruit groups from other cultural traditions and put them into our programs and offer them funding.
Q. Has patronage for the arts increased?
A. We did a study of a core or arts institutions in the state and found that corporate giving has leveled off. My hunch is that it's totally flat. But individual giving continues to climb at a very substantial level. This makes sense considering Connecticut has the highest per capita income level in the country and the fact that attendance for the arts has doubled in the last few years.
Q. What's the biggest issue concerning arts in Connecticut?
A. The role of arts in education. We have to establish the arts as part of the core curriculum and not as an enhancement activity. The National Endowment for the Arts did a nationwide study and found that serious arts education does not exist. The commission, along with the Department of Education, has put together a task force that will have a major action planned by next year to incorporate the arts into the curriculum.
Among the things we want to accomplish is getting arts institutions that have educational programs into the venues of the education world. For instance, getting museums to teach teachers how to incorporate the arts, say, into social studies.
We now have a number of studies that show that the arts are a helpful tool in developing criticial and creative thinking skills. Our kids are missing a large part of their heritage, not just in Western European art, but from other cultures as well. It's incredible. How can you teach a history of a people without looking at their art?
Q. What are the commission's proudest accomplishments?
A. The first is this task force on education in the arts. It's the first time we've worked on this with the Department of Education, and I think together we'll be able to make some big changes in this area.
The other is our annual arts awards in June where we identify individuals that we feel are making a contribution. We use it as a miniature festival of the arts and have performances by Connecticut artists ranging from Dave Brubeck to the bass player Gary Karr. I'm really proud of the quality and how it highlights what a great and talented state this is.
Q. How can the public help the commission reach its goal?
A. People have to let their legislatures know how important it is to support the arts. A lot of things that we do wouldn't happen unless we didn't help them. Maybe the Long Wharf would move right along without our support, even though they claim it's terribly important. But there are programs such as art education programs that wouldn't exist without our funding. We also identify cultural groups and promote them all over the state. That wouldn't happen without us. If politicians understand that the cultural quality of our lives is a real issue, then changes will result.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Gary M. Young at his office in Hartford (NYT/Steve Miller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (51%); K (TSX) (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KINROSS GOLD CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: CULTURE; PHOTOGRAPHY CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); PORNOGRAPHY (71%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (66%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: YOUNG, GARY M; RIERDEN, ANDI; MAPPLETHORPE, ROBERT ROBERT MAPPLETHORPE (68%); 



380 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: Shore Confronts New Trends in Tourism

BYLINE: By LEO H. CARNEY

DATELINE: LAVALLETTE

 BODY:
AS local and state tourism officials and oceanfront communities finish their assessments of last summer and start to plan budgets for next year, the talk is focusing on a trend that has been changing the face of the Jersey Shore in this decade.
Quite apart from annual fluctuations brought on by changes in ocean water quality, officials and others say, there are fewer people visiting the beach these days. Most of those who do go, they say, spend only a day or a weekend, a far cry from the stays of a couple of weeks or entire 10-week seasons that were common less than 10 years ago.
''The Shore business community is just starting to adjust to the new trend of people taking more vacations for fewer days at a time,'' said Noreen G. Bodman, director of the State Division of Travel and Tourism. ''Business owners definitely must adjust to that trend and market to that trend.'' 
For example, Mrs. Bodman said, motel and hotel owners especially need to change their minimum-stay requirements of a week or so to perhaps a couple of days if they hope to meet the new demands of tourists.
Interviews with real estate agents and merchants, local and state officials and spokesmen for Chambers of Commerce, as well as a review of the latest studies on vacation patterns, showed that several factors have influenced what has become a new Shore economy. They are:
* Societal changes in the nuclear family, including fewer children and more two-income married couples. There are also, according to the United States Data Information Service in Washington, more single parents and single professional people taking short vacations.
* The rapid development of some Jersey Shore towns, which has begun reducing the number of available rentals there as once-rustic summer spots are transformed into more settled residential and second-home communities.
* Competition from diverse and conveniently situated vacation alternatives, in the mountains or elsewhere in New Jersey and New York, that feature getaways of two or three days.
* The failure of many Shore communities to package and market their attractions until recently. Some still do not have promotional budgets for next year.
Either by themselves or cooperatively through regional efforts, many Shore towns began selling themselves to the public this year in an attempt to restore the loss of hundreds of thousands of tourists and more than $1 billion in revenue that occurred in the last two summers alone.
Boardwalk owners and Chamber of Commerce officials said these promotions had begun reversing the sharp decline in revenue experienced in 1987 and 1988, years in which the long-term downward trend in Shore tourism was exacerbated by reports of pollution and beach closings.
''A terrific effort was made by the tourism industry this year, and it has been working,'' said Nancy James, a spokeswoman for Jenkinson's Pavilion in Point Pleasant Beach. Most of the boardwalk businesses are situated in the pavilion.
Jenkinson's, Ms. James said, began winning back tourist dollars last summer with special offerings like new group travel packages and the Festival of the Atlantic. The festival was a series of 10 free professional concerts on the beach that drew thousands each week and quickly became the Shore's largest outdoor music festival. It will be expanded next summer, Ms. James said.
To the south, the borough of Lavallette supplemented its summer with small concerts and other attractions. Although its ocean waters were sparkling clean all summer, its beaches along Barnegat Bay, which are longtime family attractions, were closed almost every day because of bacterial contamination.
Over all, Mrs. Bodman said, Shore tourism revenue was ''up a little but not substantially'' over 1988, and still not close to 1986, the last real banner year the Shore experienced.
 
Beach Badge Income Watched
Income from beach badges at municipal and private beaches is considered to be a barometer of the economic climate. Beach attendance figures provided by individual communities for this year showed continued declines in revenue and even sharper decreases in the sale of season beach badges, which were down 50 percent or more from 1988, perhaps reflecting the move toward shorter vacations.
In Monmouth County's southernmost municipality, Manasquan, beach revenue was down by a third - $408,000 compared with $598,000 in 1988. But the figures are only part of the picture. Neil B. Hamilton, a Manasquan councilman and chairman of the Borough Council's beach committee, said beach attendance last summer showed that attendance had declined 90 percent in the five years.
Only four or five of the town's nine beaches with lifeguards were open on weekdays last summer, he said, and no more than six or seven beaches ever opened on a weekend.
Manasquan's beaches showed a net loss of $109,000 last year. The paucity of beachgoers, Mr. Hamilton said, prompted the town fathers to offer free parking at Manasquan's four parking lots, which never did fill up. As for finding promotional money in an increasingly scant beach budget, Mr. Hamilton said, ''We can't afford it.''
In Belmar, beach revenue has ''been going down for the last several years,'' said Marie Newbery, a municipal spokeswoman. ''Families generally aren't coming like they used to even five years ago. When they do, it is mostly for day trips.''
Belmar sold $1.05 million worth of badges this year in all categories, compared with almost $1.3 million in 1988. The sale of full-season badges this year declined to less than half of the 1988 figure.
 
An Advertising Campaign
Long Beach Island, the barrier island in Ocean County between Barnegat Light and Long Beach Township, did better this year than last by spending $50,000 on advertising in newspapers. Also, some 30,000 brochures that presented the island's individual community attractions as entire packages were distributed statewide.
''People are not coming to the beach to sit on the beach anymore,'' said Jeanne DiPaola, executive director of the Southern Ocean County Chamber of Commerce, which takes in Long Beach Island. ''They want concerts, antiquing and other activities.''
Although beach attendance in one of the municipalities, Long Beach Township, was down this year almost 15 percent compared with 1988 - from 52,770 visitors to 45,756 last year - Ms. DiPaola said nonbeach business was generally up. With ''few families and more professional couples with no children, as well as single parents'' coming to the beach, she said, ''the nightclubs were hopping here last summer because the demand for night life has increased.''
The shorter-term vacationers, she said, are dining out less frequently and heavily patronizing takeout restaurants and ones that cater.
 
Season Extended in Cape May
In the state's southern tip, the city of Cape May, which is believed to be the oldest seaside resort in the nation, is not subjected to the same vicissitudes as most oceanfront communities. As officials there pointed out, Cape May does not have a boardwalk amusement area, and it is a national historic site that has successfully extended its tourist season well into the spring and fall.
Nevertheless, beach revenues declined there to $415,104 this year from $419,877 last year, a slight drop that officials said had to do with a very rainy season.
But Harry Mogck, a captain with 20 years on the Cape May beach patrol, said that while familiar families still frequented the beach, ''there are more daily people than we've ever had before - different faces every day.''
Meredithe Semselski, director of the Greater Cape May Area Chamber of Commerce, said that even the over-50 crowd that made up much of the tourist trade in Cape May was taking two- or three-day vacations, three or four times a year, rather than spending a week to a month.
Aware of the changing times, Ms. Semselski said Cape May would participate in a corporate travel trade show in Philadelphia next year to increase its income from small conferences and business meetings.
Cape May, Ocean City and the Wildwoods spent more than $250,000 last summer on a Cape Island advertising campaign that began in 1988 and that sought to give the area an identity separate from the rest of the coast.
 
'Creating an Identity'
A similar regional marketing effort was begun this year by Roy Childers, a lifelong resident of Lavallette who owns four real-estate agencies in the area. Concerned about how the last two years of bad publicity had ''accelerated'' the longer-term trend of fewer vacationers, Mr. Childers organized some 100 businesses and groups along the island between Point Pleasant Beach and Island Beach State Park and gave the region a new name, Barnegat Beach Island. He also helped establish an independent newspaper, The Beach Reader and News, in Seaside Park.
''There was a question of creating an identity that we did not have,'' Mr. Childers said.
The island, he said, grew rapidly in the last decade. Some towns have been losing their rustic sand-in-the-shoes charm as the corner custard stands, tiny movie houses and outdoor produce stands have begun to give way to gleaming convenience stores, more valuable residential conversions of commercial property and large shopping malls only minutes from the beach in places like Toms River and Brick.
''As the year-round beachfront community grows, it is not really the backwater getaway that it once was for vacationers,'' Mr. Childers said.
Mrs. Bodman was supportive of the latest push to sell the Shore, a place that, she said, ''until recently had always sold itself.''
Even though it is experiencing changes, Mrs. Bodman said, one thing that the Shore still has in its favor is a diversity of communities - from small back-bay villages, where one can still rent a rowboat and go crabbing, to the glitz of Atlantic City.
All this, she said, will continue to give the Shore a broad appeal for some time to come.

GRAPHIC: Photo of joggers on the boardwalk at Spring Lake (pg. 1); former hotel in Spring Lake being converted to condominiums (pg. 8) (NYT/Ray Fisk)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: JERSEY SHORE STATE BANK (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BEACHES TRENDS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BEACHES (89%); TOURISM (78%); LODGING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); PARENTS (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); CHILDREN (69%); FAMILY (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); SINGLE PARENTS (63%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (57%); 

PERSON: CARNEY, LEO H; BODMAN, NOREEN G NANCY JAMES (55%); NOREEN G BODMAN (55%); 



381 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: STEPS ARE TAKEN TO CALM INVESTORS IN STOCK MARKETS

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
The financial community and Government officials yesterday took steps to deal with volatile Wall Street trading expected today, seeking to assure investors that the markets are ready for any reaction to Friday's collapse.
The first significant sign of the fallout from Friday's drop of 190.58 points, or 6.9 percent, in the Dow Jones industrial average was felt in Tokyo, where stocks fell at the opening. By mid-afternoon, the 225-share Nikkei index, which had dropped by as much as 610 points in early trading, was at 34,551, down 564, or about 1.6 percent from Friday's close.
An opening drop in Tokyo, as well as on Wall Street, had been largely expected by investors. But industry officials expressed relief that the initial trading in Tokyo was relatively calm. 
''This is early in the Japanese morning and I cannot predict the rest of the day,'' Leo Melamed, the chairman of the executive committee of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, said last night. ''But clearly if it is around these levels, you can breathe a bit easier.''
 
Exchanges in Contacts Abroad
But exchanges continued to maintain contacts overseas. ''We're talking to the institutions in Tokyo and London tonight to get a feel for what impact action in their markets will have here,'' John J. Phelan Jr., chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, said yesterday.
In Washington, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, who headed the Presidential panel that explored the causes of the 1987 market crash, was coordinating the Bush Administration's response to the market's turmoil. A spokesman for Mr. Brady said he was in his office yesterday afternoon talking by telephone with Wall Street and Government officials.
In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission checked with mutual funds and large brokerage houses in an effort to get an indication of how much selling there would be in early trading today, a commission official said. Such a check could provide the regulators and the exchanges with a sense of what they have to expect.
President Bush spent most of the day at Camp David, the Presidential retreat in Maryland. A White House press officer said she assumed the President had been in touch with Mr. Brady, but referred further questions to the Treasury.
Preparations for this morning resulted in some rule revisions at the major financial exchanges. For example, the New York Stock Exchange will allow orders to begin to be placed in its computer system at 7:30 A.M., an hour earlier than usual. Trading personnel were also required to come in early.
At the market's opening, the exchange will activate an express delivery system for individual investors, which is usually used to move such trades ahead of institutional ones after the market moves up or down by 25 points. These moves are expected to allow the markets to better prepare for the opening.
 
Trying to Gauge the Action
Brokers and institutional investors spent the weekend trying to gauge the possible action in the markets today. Some traders were busy making lists of the stocks they thought they should trade, while brokers were speaking to their customers to determine what they might do.
Industry officials were quick to point out that the domestic financial markets were in a radically different position from what they were on Oct. 19, 1987. These officials said that if the plunge in the market continued, they did not expect a meltdown such as occurred two years ago. They stressed that the changes that had been made would serve to protect small investors.
''This is a market with far more value than we saw in 1987, and with a different economic backdrop,'' said Alan R. Ackerman, senior vice president at Gruntal & Company.
Nevertheless, some industry experts said some of the changes in the last two years had also brought problems. ''The negative side of the differences is that we are two years later along the leveraged buyout route, and so there is more leverage in the system,'' Mr. Melamed said. ''That is the reason the markets have been so jittery.''
 
Touched Off by UAL News
Indeed, Friday's debacle was touched off by news that the group planning a buyout of UAL Inc., the parent of United Airlines, in a highly leveraged deal could not get financing and would have to revise the terms.
After the plunge, many exchanges began reviewing the financial impact on their members. On the New York Stock Exchange, the financial conditions of member firms were checked and they were found to be in good shape.
Other exchanges, including the American Stock Exchange and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, called members in on Saturday to resolve trade disputes left over from Friday, clearing the way for today's opening.
Most important, on Saturday a Federal Reserve Board official said any sudden demands for money that might result from Friday's collapse would be met by the central bank. In 1987, those assurances were made only after the market collapse began. ''The Federal Reserve is doing exactly what it should do,'' said Neil J. Pinsky, a former economist with the Chicago Federal Reserve. ''It learned its lesson in 1929 and in 1987.''
The weekend's preparations were expected to prove necessary today because, industry executives said, trading would be volatile, although there was not yet any indication of where the market would close.
 
Relationship With Futures
The reason for the volatility, exchange officials and traders said, lay in the relationship between the futures and stock markets. On Friday, trading was limited in futures after contracts based on the Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 30 points. That left the stock markets open for 15 more minutes, with stocks closing far above the related stock futures contracts.
As a result, industry officials said, the futures contracts closed at a discount to stocks of the equivalent of some 50 to 70 points on the Dow. In order for the stock exchanges in New York and the futures exchanges in Chicago to get back in synchronization, that difference will have to be captured in early trading, either by a decline in stocks or a rally in futures.
But the overall direction of the market will depend on several critical signals. First, the close of the markets in Japan, as well as the first hours of trading on the European exchanges, will be examined closely by American traders seeking to get a sense of the possible direction of the domestic markets.
Initial mixed reactions of the foreign markets to the Friday plunge came throughout the weekend. On Saturday, Taiwan's stock market declined by more than 2 percent, but South Korea's market finished generally higher. Yesterday, Israel's stock market lost some 7 percent of its total value, while in New Zealand, the market fell about 10 percent in its Monday morning session.
 
Options Index to Be Watched
Traders and industry executives said they would be watching trading in the Major Market Index, or M.M.I. a single options index that starts trading 15 minutes before the rest of the market. The index is composed of about 20 stocks, including International Business Machines, Procter & Gamble, Merck and other blue-chip companies.
The index, known among traders as ''the missile'' because its trading symbol is ''MX,'' was the first sector of the market to begin to recover after the 1987 crash, signaling possible buyers of stock that it was time to step in.
''The last time, when the missile started rallying, that was a sign the market itself had bottomed out,'' said Jeffrey Tabak, a partner with Miller Tabak Hirsch & Company, a New York investment banking firm. ''Guys like myself remember that.'' Many investors, wary after the 1987 crash, have chosen to put their money in other investments besides stocks, market analysts pointed out, and as a result, institutions are playing an even more important role than they did two years ago.
In 1987, the market had been on a steady decline since late August, but the ebullience that surrounded the five-year bull market had not been squeezed out. Investors were heavily laden with stocks and other financial instruments, and cash holdings were at a low level.
As a result, when concern started to mount on the morning of Oct. 19, there were many investors who wanted to sell, but there were few takers with the cash to buy.
 
Significantly Different Market
Today, the makeup of the markets is significantly different. Despite the fact that the Dow has been steadily rising for months, reaching new records, this has been a market with no euphoria. Many investors have stood back watching the rise, putting their money into cash assets, such as money market funds, certificates of deposits and other investments, and keeping their exposure in stocks to a minimum.
''This has been a bull market full of anxiety,'' said Mr. Ackerman of Gruntal. 'But there is an abundance of cash worldwide looking for value.''
Individual investors appear to have not been significantly involved in Friday's selloff. Fidelity Investments in Boston polled some of its shareholders over the weekend, and found that only 1 percent of those asked had withdrawn their assets from stock or mutual funds on Friday, said Neil Litvack, vice president of marketing.
 
Psychological Preparations
The preparations over the last two years for market difficulties have been not just been structural, but psychological as well. Since the 1987 crash, officials in the securities and futures industry have learned how to deal with rapidly declining markets, something that many of the younger players on Wall Street had never seen. Since the crash, volatility in the stock market, often driven by computerized program trading, has pushed the market to near-record drops as well as to new highs.
''Since Oct. 19, 1987, we have been educated in volatility, and nothing will ever be the same,'' said Donald Stone, a partner with Lasker, Stone & Stern, a specialist firm on the New York Stock Exchange.
Regardless of the outcomes today, industry officials said yesterday that they hoped investors would act based on their experience from the crash. ''We hope that people have learned a lesson from 1987,'' Mr. Phelan said. ''A great deal of caution should be used before anyone decides to go rushing to sell.''

GRAPHIC: photo of traders on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (AP) (pg. A1); graph of trading hours at world's stock exchange's (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



382 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Papal Trip's Last Stop: An Island Gem

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT LOUIS, Mauritius, Oct. 15

 BODY:
Normally, papal trips to third world countries are journeys among strongmen and marches through gut-wrenching poverty. So it was a decided change for Pope John Paul II this weekend when he brought his ministry to this palm-flecked island nation.
Mind you, Mauritius hardly qualifies as rich. It is a teardrop in the Indian Ocean, 1,200 miles from the southern African coast, with its share of tin-roofed hovels and illiteracy. 
But it is unlike any other country in this part of the world. For one thing, democracy has remained intact since the island won independence from Britain 21 years ago. The Government can lose elections, and has.
For another, Mauritius has no army or significant foreign-policy worries except for its desire to regain sovereignty over the distant island of Diego Garcia, which Britain still controls and leases to the United States for use as a military base.
 
Virtually No Unemployment
Moreover, the economy, while still fragile, has managed to chug along admirably. Unemployment among the 1 million Mauritians is said to be about zero, thanks to a decision several years ago to end near-total dependency on sugar cane for economic survival. These days, there is a network of light manufacturing, invigorated by foreign investors who were lured with promises of no income taxes and no duties. The island produces and exports such diverse items as clothing, cut diamonds and surgical gloves.
One result is that the annual per capita income is approaching $2,000 a year, equivalent to seven or eight times that of Madagascar, the nearest big neighbor, 500 miles west. And now business leaders dream that their country may one day become an African Hong Kong or Taiwan through offshore banking services and perhaps even a stock exchange.
In fact, Mauritius is doing well enough to have merited a papal lecture today on the perils of materialism, something fretted over as well by some local politicians who say they fear for the ''Mauritius soul.''
At a meeting with Mauritian youths, the Pope acknowledged that economic development has saved their island from crisis. But he added: ''The mere accumulation of goods is not enough to realize human happiness. You become a slave to the enjoyment of material things.''
That would be a special shame here, John Paul added, because of the unusual blend of races, cultures, religions and languages - a ''rainbow,'' as the Pope called it, where ethnic strife occurs infrequently.
Should Mauritius become a victim of materialism, he warned, it ''could certainly fall short in its mission as a cultural crossroads, where the confluence of diverse cultures gives an authentic spiritual vision to life.''
 
Hindus in Slight Majority
Indigenous Mauritians do not exist. Over the last three centuries the island has been ruled successively by the Dutch, the French and the English, who brought in slaves or permitted immigration from Africa, India and China. Almost everyone speaks French and Creole, yet the official language is English. Hindus form a slight majority, but Christians and Muslims are amply represented.
This balance must be preserved, the Pope said today, throwing in an admonition that ''racial prejudice, blasphemous to the Creator, can be fought only at its root, the heart of man.''
Mauritius is the last stop on a trip that also took the Pope over the last 10 days to South Korea and Indonesia. John Paul would have done well to spend some time on the island's sunny, silken beaches, but that, of course, is hardly papal style. For him, instead, this has been a grueling voyage of 24,522 miles. By the time he returns to Rome Monday, the 11th anniversary of his papacy, he will have spent more than 58 hours, or one-fourth the entire trip, in the air.
Fatigue has shown in his 69-year-old face. At one stop in Indonesia, where temperatures climbed above 100 degrees, he began to nod off during a meeting with seminarians, prompting an aide to thrust a copy of his planned remarks into the Pope's hands to jar him awake. Still, he is remarkably durable, and he has begun already to talk about trips he hopes to make one day to the Soviet Union and China and, preferrably sooner, to Lebanon.

GRAPHIC: photo of Pope John Paul II (Reuters); map of Port Louis, Mauritius

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MAURITIUS (96%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRITISH INDIAN OCEAN TERRITORY (79%); MADAGASCAR (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: PORT LOUIS, MAURITIUS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MAURITIUS

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); RELIGION (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); POLITICS (74%); TRENDS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (60%); 

PERSON: POPE (JOHN PAUL II); HABERMAN, CLYDE POPE JOHN PAUL II (93%); 



383 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: SOVIETS REDUCING ARMS FOR MANAGUA

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Oct. 10

 BODY:
After a decade as the largest supplier of weapons for the Sandinista army, the Soviet Union now appears committed to reducing its military aid to Nicaragua in order to strengthen its relations with Washington, diplomats here say.
The cut in arms shipments, discussed during a visit here last week by the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, has already affected nearly all direct shipments from the Soviet Union to Nicaragua. Western diplomats say they expect further reductions in indirect military aid that passes through other Soviet bloc nations, like Cuba and East Germany.
After first disputing such reports, American intelligence officials said last week that total Soviet bloc military aid to Nicaragua was now about 20 percent less than it was last year. In the past, the total value of Soviet military aid to Nicaragua has been estimated to average $500 million a year. 
 
Elections in February
Officially, both Nicaragua and the Soviet Union are describing the cuts as a temporary suspension of aid until national elections are held here in February. The reductions were presented by Mr. Shevardnadze as part of a Soviet-sponsored disarmament plan in which the Soviet Union and United States would serve as guarantors of Central American stability.
But diplomats familiar with last week's negotiations said the cuts were not likely to depend on such an ambitious framework. They described the cuts as a product of Moscow's effort to eliminate friction between the superpowers and to cut back its extensive Third World commitments.
Although many experts had expected Mr. Shevardnadze to bring news of cuts in economic aid as well, Nicaraguan and Soviet officials gave no indication of any significant changes in that area. Some analysts suggested that economic aid would be deliberately maintained to permit, and reduce the impact of, the military cutbacks, which are considered far more important to the United States.
 
Reorganization of Economic Aid
Foreign experts here said they believed that the Kremlin would continue its current high levels of economic aid, now estimated at about $465 million a year, or roughly $133 a year for every Nicaraguan citizen.
But in his remarks, Mr. Shevardnadze said such economic aid would have to be reorganized to make it more efficient, and he pointedly praised the Sandinista Government's recent economic recovery program, which relies on traditional Western techniques for economic stabilization.
According to statistics released recently by the Nicaraguan Ministry of External Cooperation, Soviet nonmilitary aid from 1981 to 1988 amounted to $2.9 billion. The current three-year aid agreement provides a total of $1.4 billion in nonmilitary aid.
The new Soviet policy toward Nicaragua first began to emerge clearly in May, when President Mikhail S. Gorbachev told President Bush in a letter that no direct Soviet arms shipments had been made to Nicaragua since Jan. 1. The policy was then refined and explained directly to Sandinista leaders in the one-day visit by Mr. Shevardnadze, who arrived here fresh from his lengthy negotiations with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and other American officials.
 
Regional Issues Mentioned
During Mr. Shevardnadze's visit, the Nicaraguan Government formally committed itself to a suspension of all new Soviet military supplies until the February elections. Both sides also declared their support of a regionwide framework for removing bases, banning foreign military advisers and reducing arms levels under the joint Soviet-American structure.
''The stability of the region requires the maintenance of a balance of forces, in which each Central American country has sufficient armed forces for defense and no more,'' Mr. Shevardnadze said.
In Washington, State Department officials quickly discounted any suggestion that the Soviet Union might have a direct role to play in overseeing regional affairs, an idea that would conflict directly with the Monroe Doctrine. That doctrine rejects the intervention of outside nations in the hemisphere. Which Shipments Are Included? Western officials' enthusiasm over the announced cuts in Soviet aid was also tempered by ambiguity over the range of shipments that would be included in the cuts. American analysts have asserted that large shipments of arms from the Soviet bloc continue to reach the Sandinista army through Cuba and East Germany, but Soviet officials have insisted that they cannot control the actions of those allies.
Uncertainty surrounding that point was increased during Mr. Shevardnadze's visit, after which the Soviet and Nicaraguan sides issued separate communiques rather than a single negotiated document. According to the Soviet text, Nicaragua accepted a suspension of all arms shipments. But in the Nicaraguan document, the reference specified suspension of ''armaments from the Soviet Union to Nicaragua.''
Commenting on the negotiations, American officials made it clear that they had chosen to interpret the Soviet statement as a ban on all shipments, direct or indirect.
The understandings reached during Mr. Shevardnadze's visit were ratified Oct. 7, when President Daniel Ortega Saavedra met with the Mr. Gorbachev while both were attending East German anniversary celebrations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID ARMS TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ARMIES (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TRENDS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); STATISTICS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: UHLIG, MARK A GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



384 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Special House Election in Mississippi To Test G.O.P.'s Southern Strength

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss., Oct. 14

 BODY:
For the last 16 years, Mississippi's Fifth Congressional District has been a bulwark of the Republican Party's Southern strength, as native conservatism and popular Presidential candidates have built a political force that has won offices down to the county level.
The Republicans' strength on the Gulf Coast will be tested on Tuesday in a special Congressional election that pits Tom Anderson, a longtime aide to Senator Trent Lott, the man who led the Republican charge in the area, against Gene Taylor, a conservative Democratic State Senator.
Mr. Taylor's profile as a maverick and an advocate of a strong defense has helped make him a surprise frontrunner in public opinion polls.
Indications of just how high the stakes in the race are could be seen earlier this week in the campaign visit here by President Bush, who touted Mr. Anderson for his Washington experience and for the conservative philosophy he would bring to the office. The Democrats countered with a letter signed by the House Speaker, Thomas S. Foley, and other Democratic leaders promising to install Mr. Taylor on the Armed Services Committee. 
 
The Military Influence
Much of the district's economy is built on military spending generated by the huge Ingalls shipyards in Pascagoula, four military installations and the large number of retired military personnel who live in the district.
The winner of the special election will serve the remaining 14 months in the term of the late Larkin Smith. Mr. Smith, a popular Republican sheriff who won the seat after Mr. Lott quit it to make a successful run for the Senate last year, was killed in a plane crash on Aug. 13.
''It is definitely a conservative district,'' said Dan Leonard, deputy press secretary for the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee, which has been helping the Anderson campaign. ''We just have to convince voters that they are conservative Republicans and not conservative Democrats.''
Brian Martin, a Taylor strategist and former executive director of the Mississippi Democratic Party, said the Taylor campaign marked a Democratic resurgence.
 
Fewer Blacks in District
For years, he said, Mississippi Democrats as well as party officials in Washington had been cowed by Mr. Lott's popularity in the district, never seriously challenging him and allowing him to become entrenched. Much of the party's strength in the state, Mr. Martin said, is built on a strong black vote in the central and Delta regions. Little attention was paid to the Gulf Coast, where blacks make up less than 20 percent of the population.
''This race might be the best thing to ever happen to the Mississippi Democratic Party,'' Mr. Martin said. ''The people here are ticket-splitters and leaners, and if we really go after them, we might not turn them all into to Democrats, but we will reduce the Republican vote.''
The 43-year-old Mr. Anderson, whose family runs a retail clothing chain in the area, has been a behind-the-scenes factor in Mr. Lott's longtime dominance in the area.
As administrative aide and executive assistant to Mr. Lott, Mr. Anderson not only helped shape the combative persona that propelled Mr. Lott to a position of leadership as the House minority whip and a national spokesman for conservative causes, but also directed the important constituent services aspect of Mr. Lott's eight terms as Representative.
 
The Strong Hand of Lott
From the beginning Mr. Lott has taken a strong hand in pushing Mr. Anderson's candidacy. When the seat became vacant, he was believed to have discouraged Mr. Smith's widow and a number of others from running.
That has cut both ways for Mr. Anderson. On the one hand it has convinced some people that he will have access to the White House, but on the other it has raised the specter of bossism. A recent editorial cartoon in The Jackson Clarion-Ledger depicted Mr. Lott and Mr. Bush meeting at the airport, with the President carrying his lap dog, Millie, and Mr. Lott carrying a lap dog labeled Tom Anderson.
Mr. Taylor, who is 36, began his political career as a City Councilman in Bay St. Louis in his early 20's and went on to win a seat in the State Senate. He came through a bruising Democratic primary to win the nomination in last year's Congressional race, but lost to Mr. Smith in the general election by 10 percentage points.
But that exposure helped Mr. Taylor in the special election this year. He was considered the underdog in a three-way nonpartisan primary on Oct. 3, a race that involved Mr. Anderson and the Mississippi Attorney General, Mike Moore. But he ended up leading the field; Mr. Moore ran a distant third.
Although Mr. Anderson is outspending Mr. Taylor by more than 4 to 1 - at the end of September, Mr. Anderson had spent $403,000 to Mr. Taylor's $81,000 - the Democratic candidate has clung to his pledge not to accept money from political action committees.
''I'm not Washington's candidate or the candidate of some U.S. Senator or some Democratic power brokers in Jackson,'' Mr. Taylor said in a debate recently. ''I'm a southern Mississippi candidate.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 1989, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, an article on Monday about the special election yesterday for the Fifth Congessional District seat in Mississippi carried misplaced lines and paragraphs in some copies. Readers wishing corrected copies of the article may write to Production Quality Control, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

GRAPHIC: map of Biloxi, Miss.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (98%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); 

CITY: BILOXI, MS, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GULF COAST WATER AUTHORITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MISSISSIPPI

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); CONSERVATISM (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SHERIFFS (72%); SHIPBUILDING (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (64%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (50%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, TOM (MISSISSIPPI CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATE); TAYLOR, GENE (SEN); SMOTHERS, RONALD GENE TAYLOR (90%); TRENT LOTT (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



385 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Louisville Journal;
Keepers of the Flame Stoke Freedom's Fire

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., Oct. 15

 BODY:
The descendants of the patriots who fought at places like Bunker Hill and Trenton and Yorktown met here this weekend to check on the fires of freedom.
They found them still burning but in need of some stoking.
It was a meeting of the 100 trustees of the Sons of the American Revolution, a national society that is a century old this year and whose 25,000 members are dedicated to perpetuating the ideals and achievements of the American Revolution.
Every member of the society can be traced back to someone who fought in the Revolution or aided and abetted those who fought. Some society members wore tricornered hats and wigs. There was much spirited singing and some good-natured joshing of the better-known sibling society, the Daughters of the American Revolution, which includes a number of wives of S.A.R. members. 
But at heart the meeting was dead serious business for the men who journeyed to the society's Louisville headquarters from around the country. Their forebears' legacy seemed to weigh on their consciences.
''As descendants of the original Revolutionary War patriots, we feel that we have a special calling to keep freedom's fires burning,'' said the society's current president general, James R. Westlake, a Federal economic development official from Atlanta whose membership in the society traces to a Virginia militiaman.
Stoking those fires, the trustees passed a resolution demanding that President Bush sign a bill that prohibits desecration of the flag. The resolution read: ''Our flag, in essence, is considered a living person in our society.''
The society is a nonprofit organization and ''nonpolitical.'' It responds to issues like flag desecration and, sometimes, defense issues, but, generally, it avoids political controversy. ''We're only partisan when it comes to patriotism, freedom and good old American democracy,'' Mr. Westlake said.
In its first 100 years, it distributed millions of leaflets about the flag and what it meant to be an American citizen. It pulled together collections of important historical documents and studies and posted markers on the graves of heroes and at the sites of major historic events. It offered prizes and scholarships to students who wrote essays and gave speeches about American history, patriotism and democracy.
The trustees vowed to keep up this work. They expressed concern that the nation remained woefully ignorant and often unappreciative of its past and its meaning. They called upon schools to do a better job in teaching history.
''We should be disgusted and shamed by recent surveys that show that one of every four college seniors doesn't know when Columbus discovered America,'' said Fred Jeffries, who operates a publishing company in Denver. ''It's not a cliche to say that those who do not remember history are doomed to relive it. What's to become of our country?''
As for what's to become of the Sons of the American Revolution in the next 100 years, the trustees not only promised to continue the programs of the first, but also called for efforts to increase membership.
The S.A.R. has recently been growing by only about 500 members a year. Many of its officials say that if it does not increase that rate its reputation will continue to lag behind that of the 225,000-member D.A.R.
The D.A.R., which has been more involved in controversial issues than the S.A.R., celebrates its centennial next year.
''I figure there easily could be up to 20 million American men eligible for membership in our society because the ancestral line can come down either directly or through marriage,'' said Carl F. Bessent, a retired steel company executive from Baltimore who is the society's historian.
He claims at least eight ancestors who fought in the Revolution. Many other society members claim more. A Georgian claims 87.
''It's not really all that hard to trace an ancestor,'' Mr. Bessent said. ''We're not dealing with ancient history. There are people alive today who have talked with people who knew Revolutionary War veterans, maybe even a soldier who was at Yorktown. Just think of that! A talk with a Yorktown veteran!''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN, REVOLUTION, SONS OF THE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HISTORY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); POLITICS (70%); LEGISLATION (65%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (62%); PUBLISHING (60%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (60%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



386 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
Helms Keeps the Capital Pot Boiling

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15

 BODY:
As well-mannered as a church-going schoolboy, as full of homespun charm as a Chamber of Commerce president, Senator Jesse Helms is the kind of guy who fetches coffee for his aides and allows misguided tourists to use the special elevator reserved for senators.
He also routinely holds foreign policy initiatives hostage, puts ambassadorial nominees in limbo, paralyzes Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearings and undercuts treaties. He is, people in Washington say, a spoiler Secretary of State.
''Oh mercy, of course not,'' the 67-year-old Republican Senator says in response. ''I just have my opinions and my agenda. I just take a swipe at the ball when it comes over the plate, and I do the best I can.'' 
This month, Senator Helms seemed to be doing his best to outdo himself.
 
Criticism and Fire
Racing to the Senate floor the day after the collapse of the attempted coup in Panama, he criticized the Bush Administration for incompetence with the same oratorical fire that back home earned him the honor of Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge of Masons of North Carolina. Using information gathered by his staff, the Senator asserted that the United States had failed to respond to pleas by Panamanian rebels for crucial help.
Senior officials at the White House seethed. At a White House meeting, Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, and John H. Sununu, the chief of staff, railed at two of Mr. Helms's aides who refused to disclose their sources.
''My personal feeling is that the Senator was badly misserved by his staff,'' said one senior White House official. The Senate speech, the official said, was ''so factually inaccurate that I suspect the Senator will feel uncomfortable when it is analyzed.''
Not so, Mr. Helms insisted. ''I've got no apologies to anybody,'' he said. ''I wouldn't take back one syllable.'' Courtship by Baker Incidents like the Panama crisis have helped give Mr. Helms an importance out of proportion to his position as the ranking minority member of the Foreign Relations Committee. Conscious of Mr. Helms's power to wreak havoc on carefully planned policy, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d has courted him, seeking his advice and assistance in frequent telephone conversations or at lunch at the State Department.
''There's not a separate Jesse Helms strategy,'' said a senior official at the State Department, ''but it's fair to say that the Secretary has a strong desire to keep the Senator in the loop on things.''
As for the President, those who know Mr. Helms well say he and Mr. Bush are like oil and water. To Mr. Helms, who quit college to become a newspaperman, the President represents the kind of privilege that he disdains.
''There are certain philosophical and cultural views that Jesse doesn't share with the President,'' said Richard S. Williamson, a former Assistant Secretary of State who has known Mr. Helms since they worked together on the 1976 Republican Party platform. ''Worse than being a liberal is being a pragmatist, and worse than that is being an Eastern Establishment Ivy League WASP.''
Publicly, Mr. Helms remains a Bush loyalist. He was not happy with Ronald Reagan's choice of Mr. Bush as a Vice Presidential candidate in 1980 and made that clear. But when Mr. Bush asked Mr. Helms to show up at a North Carolina campaign stop last year, Mr. Helms drove himself there despite the fact that he was recovering from a hernia operation.
As evidence of his friendship with Mr. Bush, the Senator told of a recent visit to the Oval Office when the President offered to help when Mr. Helms is up for re-election next year. '' 'I'm ready and we'll work it out if you're ready,' '' Mr. Helms quoted the President as saying. ''I told him that's one of the nicest things anyone ever said to me.''
 
Bad Feelings Are Denied
Similarly, the White House insisted there were no bad feelings because of Panama. ''I certainly don't feel that the Senator has any specific feelings against the Administration,'' Mr. Sununu said in an interview. ''I don't think the President feels that. I've considered the Senator a friend for a long time and feel very comfortable talking with him about issues and asking him for help.''
Mr. Helms listens to cassettes of Winston Churchill's speeches in his 1984 Oldsmobile and unwinds by playing along with ''Jeopardy'' and ''Wheel of Fortune,'' two of his favorite television programs.
A two-finger typist, he uses an old Royal typewriter and pecks out dozens of letters every week to his constituents. And he puffs half-heartedly on unfiltered Lucky Strikes, which sits well with the tobacco lobby back in North Carolina.
But if he is a cocker spaniel in his personal life, Mr. Helms is a pit bull in the Senate.
 
Not Trying to Get Along
''If you don't have a set of principles and you try to be popular, that's when you go nuts,'' Mr. Helms said, ''and I have no intention of going nuts.
''I didn't come to Washington to be a yes man for any President, Democrat or Republican. I didn't come to Washington to get along and win any popularity contests.''
Indeed, people who have known the Senator for years say his tactics -large doses of anti-Communism and lectures often served up with filibusters and last-ditch amendments, all of them time-consuming, many of them tiresome - have left him few friends among his colleagues.
''He is a true believer who's often out in left field all by himself,'' said Tom Ellis, a lawyer in Raleigh, N.C., who ran Mr. Helms's first Senate campaign in 1972.
Mr. Williamson, the former Assistant Secretary of State and a fellow conservative, put it this way: ''Jesse is the skunk at the garden party, and he doesn't mind it one bit.''
 
A Classic Performance
A classic Helms performance came recently when he sharply cut off Senator Claiborne Pell, the courtly Rhode Island Democrat who is chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. In an effort to accommodate the Administration's request to move a proposal to send $9 million in election aid to the Nicaraguan opposition without a committee vote, Mr. Pell explained, ''We are trying to accommodate the President. We felt at that point --''
An angry Senator Helms interrupted, ''You felt that you were going to snooker us is what you felt.''
The exchanges in last year's Senate debate on the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty were even more vitriolic. At one point, Senator Richard G. Lugar, an Indiana Republican who supported the treaty, accused Mr. Helms of gratuitous attempts to modify the treaty, calling his stalling tactics ''ridiculous.''
''I want to challenge you on the business of being ridiculous,'' Mr. Helms responded to Mr. Lugar, who had supported economic sanctions because of South Africa's apartheid policies. ''We could go back to South Africa and some of your stands, and we can talk about what's ridiculous.''
It was a position that Mr. Lugar had promoted when he was chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee from 1984 to 1986. Mr. Helms had chosen to be chairman of the Agriculture Committee, a North Carolina necessity, but when the Democrats won a majority in the Senate, Mr. Helms insisted on exercising the seniority principle and displacing Mr. Lugar as the ranking committee Republican.
 
Staff Is Independent
Mr. Helms, who gets much of the ammunition for his arguments from his committee staff, a committed group that includes former journalists who know how to get their views across. It was Mr. Helms's staff that amassed data on the Panama situation, telephoning Administration officials and Panamanian exiles in contact with the coup leaders and even phoning members of the Panamanian military while the coup attempt was in progress.
But some staff members are so independent that they have been known to make decisions without informing their boss. When Senator Lugar tried to pass a resolution congratulating South Korea for successfully holding the Summer Olympics last year, a member of Mr. Helms's staff said it could not be done. Mr. Lugar telephoned Mr. Helms for an explanation, and the Senator not only agreed to support the resolution but also to co-sponsor it.
In terms of concrete results, Mr. Helms's record is not particularly impressive. This year he delayed but did not stop the confirmation of Richard R. Burt as President Bush's negotiator for the strategic arms limitation talks. He was unable to push through an amendment limiting the Administration's contacts with the Palestine Liberation Organization. And his attempt to block the Administration from aiding the Presidential campaign of the Nicaraguan opposition seems doomed.
Back home, his tactics - which also applied to blocking the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday or to trying to stop Federal money for what he called ''obscene'' and ''indecent'' art - have earned him the sobriquet ''Senator No.'' The Democrats, who are having trouble finding a candidate to run against him next year, are expected to argue that Mr. Helms spends too much time on issues irrelevant to North Carolina.
''The Senator knows how to manipulate the rules to his advantage, to slow things down and to grandstand on the issues,'' said Mark Helmke, a private consultant who served as press secretary to Senator Lugar. ''But eventually he loses. People point to the fact that he screams and shouts, but forget that in the end he doesn't win.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Sen. Jesse Helms (NYT/George Tames)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUPS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); 

PERSON: HELMS, JESSE (SEN); SCIOLINO, ELAINE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) JESSE HELMS (95%); BRENT SCOWCROFT (54%); 



387 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Rights and Wrongs of Blaming Japan

 BODY:
Frustration with Japan in the United States and resentment of America in Japan are near the flash point. Many Americans are upset about recent shifts in the global balance of economic power, shifts that seem to threaten American jobs and international influence. Yet to put all the blame on Japanese behavior is to deflect attention from important domestic causes.
The important facts have to be sorted out before the two economic giants, so critical to each other's future, can sit down and talk about how to fix the genuinely troubling aspects of their mutual economic relations. 
A fair standard for sorting out legitimate grievances is the principle of equal treatment. That's the thread that runs through the following analysis of mutual Japanese-American investments and trade.
 
Investments
Japanese investment in America has surged. But it needs to be put in perspective. Total foreign investment in the U.S. at the end of last year was close to $1.8 trillion, of which one-sixth - $330 billion - was direct investment in ownership or control of U.S. businesses. Japanese direct investments at year-end amounted to $53 billion, only half as much as the British and roughly the same as the Dutch. Yet it was front-page news when the Sony Corporation recently bought Columbia Pictures.
Why? One reason is that Japanese investment has grown so swiftly. The feeling of being overwhelmed has been aggravated by friction over trade issues. America has a global trade deficit of $150 billion this year - $50 billion with Japan alone.
Trade and investment issues are linked. By importing more than it exports, America puts hundreds of billions of dollars in foreign hands. Most of these dollars come back as investments, mainly in corporate and Government securities. Japanese investment has helped finance the Federal budget deficit. This support is a mixed blessing. Unfortunately, it eases pressure on Washington to reduce the deficit. But without the foreign cash, the Treasury would have to pay higher interest rates.
Setting aside the effects on fiscal policy, America gains from foreign investment - 3.2 million jobs and $9.4 billion a year in Federal income tax. There is, of course, proper concern that foreign owners not undermine national security. Adequate laws to screen such investments are already in place. Foreigners can't buy the shipyards that build nuclear submarines, and they aren't always welcome to buy vital high-tech component producers.
Nervousness about Japan doesn't stop there, though. Some think the Columbia Pictures deal presages Japanese thought control over American culture. But two major Hollywood studios are already foreign-owned, and their output is no more or less insidious than before.
Some worry about Japanese ownership of U.S. banks. Worriers might pause to reflect on the extent of American industry and banks abroad. What makes it fair for Americans to invest everywhere in everything, but unfair for others to do the same?
Total American investment abroad is nominally the same size as foreign investment here. But U.S. capital abroad is actually greater because official statistics are based on original book value, rather than current worth.
Japanese acquisitions here include major companies like Firestone Tire, the CIT Group loan business, glittering names like Tiffany's, pricey Los Angeles real estate, thousands of acres of ranchland and now Columbia. Japanese banks and manufacturers have also opened U.S. offices and plants.
But while Japan's biggest banks are now the world's largest, its manufacturers are not nearly so muscular. Moreover, overseas production by the Japanese is barely 4 percent of their total output. America's overseas share is 18 percent. The issue of American investment in Japan, however, raises troubling questions of equity. Japan appears to be the only country that receives less investment from the United States than it sends here. Historically, the Japanese have been stubborn and difficult about letting foreigners buy into their industry or establish operations there. Their barriers have been somewhat relaxed recently, but remain too strict. For a country with such a highly visible investment presence abroad, these restrictions invite fair and strong criticism.
 
Trade
The balance of trade presents still thornier issues. It is not expected, or desirable, that every country balance its trade with each of its trading partners. America will always run surpluses with some countries and deficits with others, and ideally the grand total will balance out someday.
But America's trade deficit with Japan is particularly stubborn. The dollar has been sharply devalued, and this has helped to cut the deficit with Western Europe in half. But while Japan has imported more, its exports have also risen. The imbalance has stuck at $50 billion for several years. Why did the prescribed tonic of a devalued dollar work so poorly with Japan?
Americans buy Japanese products because of their quality and in many cases uniqueness. The U.S. no longer has a consumer electronics industry of any significance. Color TV's, VCR's and fax machines must be imported, and many of these imports come from Japan. The competitiveness of a wide range of American manufacturing industries is in evident decline.
Some of America's competitive problems are Washington's fault: Federal budget deficits have raised interest rates and forced U.S. companies to seek quicker paybacks on their investments.
Other causes of decline lie with the affected industries themselves. Detroit was far too slow in taking its Japanese rivals seriously. Though it has since improved the quality of its cars, they still do not match Japan's.
Japan cannot be faulted for those problems that are entirely of American making. To the contrary, its challenge has helped stir some complacent American industries to produce higher quality goods. But Japan can be faulted for its resistance to U.S. exports. Japan has greatly reduced its tariffs under the rules of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. But many invisible barriers remain.
The most egregious case of market denial affects semiconductor chips, an industry as fundamental to electronics as machine tools are to manufacturing. Preferring not to buy from the American companies that invented the technology, Japan created its own industry. American companies have never managed to acquire more than a token 10 percent share of Japan's market.
Japan tends to curtail imports where they compete with industries Tokyo wants to develop. The layers of protection include an industrial structure of cross-owned company groupings, known as keiretsu, that commonly buy from one another, and a domestic distribution system that tends to exclude foreign goods and makes even Japanese goods extremely expensive.
Japanese officials deny that their markets are closed, attributing the weakness of American sales to poor quality or lack of effort by American exporters. These criticisms seem justified in part. But they don't tell the whole story.
Japan's economy seems to be run largely for the benefit of its producers, whereas America's is run for the benefit of its consumers. The trouble is that the match between the producing and the consuming economy is vastly uneven. Companies in the producing economy, able to take a longer term view, enjoy a considerable advantage over their rivals in the consuming economy.
There are many remedies the United States can take for itself. But Japan needs to be more conscious of the inequities created by its policies and more open to suggestions for change.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: SON (LSE) (67%); SNE (NYSE) (67%); 6758 (TSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (67%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (67%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (67%); TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) FOREIGN INVESTMENT (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); SHIPBUILDING (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); INCOME TAX (50%); 



388 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Time to Seek Reconciliation With China;
Attacking Corruption

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As a visitor to China from May 13 to June 6, I can agree with most of Anthony Lewis's Sept. 28 column on China's 40th anniversary. However, what he says of the Chinese Government's attacking private enterprises as corrupt requires amplification. 
Behind China's inflation, besides unsound banking practices, are both corruption and capital expenditures at uncontrolled levels. Corrupt business practices are not limited to Government operations in the public sector, but are also found in the private sector. Given the rapidity of change in the last 10 years and the lack of adequate supervisory institutions why should it be otherwise? (Think of our savings and loan problem!) Allocating scarce resources for capital expenditures is related to regional development policy, local and national priorities, diversion of capital to nonproductive purposes and the difficulties of a multiple-pricing system.
If the Government closes legitimate private companies or ignores problems with public companies on the pretext of attacking corruption, we will know that the clock is being turned back on economic reform. But it seems too early to state this categorically.
 
MAX R. BLOOM
 Syracuse, Sept. 29, 1989
The writer is a retired management professor at Syracuse University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (82%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (82%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CORRUPTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 



389 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Science Courses Teetering on 'Disaster'

BYLINE: By SAMUEL WEISS

 BODY:
A City University of New York task force has concluded that the university's programs in science, engineering, technology and mathematics are ''teetering on a brink of disaster'' and require ''forceful and dramatic'' action to insure their survival.
In a report, the task force said that failing to improve the science programs ''will be to forever condemn the City University to third-rate status and virtually eliminate the institution as a factor in the technology-based local, regional and national economies of the 21st century.''
In a letter accompanying the report, the group's co-chairmen said the low level of scientific achievement at the university, the nation's third largest, was a result of inadequate financing and a lack of leadership.
 
'Landscape Is Bleak'
''While there are pockets and islands of greatness in the university's scientific sector,'' they wrote, ''the general landscape is bleak, having been run for far too long on a shoestring, without focus and vision, with little moral or fiscal commitment.'' 
The co-chairmen, Dr. Elizabeth S. Boylan and Dr. Avigdor M. Ronn, addressed the letter to the vice chancellor for academic affairs, Dr. Carolynn Reid-Wallace, who appointed the 15-member task force in May 1988.
Among the problems cited were aging laboratories and outmoded equipment, few faculty members who were pre-eminent in their fields, low salaries, inadequate financial support for graduate students and a lack of long-range planning at any level.
The panel recommended the creation of new programs in emerging fields like biotechnology. It also recommended the modernization of what it called ''grossly inadequate'' laboratories and an expanded effort to recruit replacements for an aging faculty.
 
Revise Graduate Programs
Further, the task force recommended that greater effort be made to interest students in scientific careers, that a panel be formed to revise graduate science programs and that a new post of deputy vice chancellor for science, engineering, technology and mathematics be created In interviews, Dr. Boylan and Dr. Ronn said any large-scale improvement of City University's science and technology programs would cost millions of dollars. But they said the report does not estimate long-range costs or advocate a crash spending program; rather, they said, it tries to focus attention on general problems.
Dr. Boylan is professor of biology and acting assistant provost at Queens College. Dr. Ronn is executive officer of the chemistry doctoral program at the university's Graduate School and University Center.
The task force's report was submitted early this month to the university's Chancellor, Dr. Joseph S. Murphy, as well as to its 20 college presidents and 17 trustees. A copy of the report was obtained by The New York Times.
 
'Harsh Self-Criticism'
In an interview, Dr. Murphy called the report a ''harsh self-criticism'' but said it would be premature to comment on its details.
The report emphasized that the university could have a major role in the metropolitan area in developing ''a technologically trained manpower pool'' that it said is needed for a new industrial base.
The task force found that the university ''rated rather badly'' in science programs against other large universities and that of all the science programs offered throughout the university system, only the physics and chemical engineering departments of City College had earned international reputations. The university has a faculty of 14,000 people teaching 190,000 students at 20 campuses.
One area of concern, the task force said, was faculty recruitment. Some senior faculty members at other major universities are paid more than $100,000 a year, the report said, while a City University faculty member with a rank of distinguished professor receives about $90,000.
Because of the comparatively low salary structure, the task force said, 25 percent of the faculty positions in City College's electrical engineering department remained vacant. The report also said little money was available for research projects, further hampering recruitment efforts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY)

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; MATHEMATICS; ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS ENGINEERING (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERVIEWS (61%); 

PERSON: WEISS, SAMUEL



390 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Ties to Congress Show Strain

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15

 BODY:
As relations between the White House and Congress grow more combative, President Bush's personal ties to Capitol Hill show signs of strain, and complaints about the Administration's handling of Congress are growing louder, even from members of his own party.
The President has scored some important victories in Congress, and lawmakers and strategists on both sides of the aisle said that, at least in the short term, he can count on a reservoir of good will filled through months of playing a more bipartisan legislative strategy than did President Ronald Reagan.
But some Republicans have started complaining, mostly in private, that the drive for bipartisanship has meant neglecting single-party strategy sessions at the White House in favor of meetings with the leadership of both parties.
 
'Out of the Loop'
They said that Mr. Bush's staff has sometimes sent mixed signals in the heat of legislative battle and that his Congressional liaison staff is ''out of the loop'' on decisions made by Mr. Bush, his chief of staff, John H. Sununu, and the budget director, Richard G. Darman. 
Some of Mr. Bush's recent problems in Congress stem from a Democratic opposition that has grown more aggressive, if not always more successful. Some Republicans said the White House has trouble picking the right fights and, when it has chosen to join difficult legislative battles, has sometimes been slow to do so.
Mr. Bush has benefited from the fragmented Democratic opposition, and a lack of major economic problems has kept his standing high in the opinion polls. But some Democrats and Republicans said they were concerned about whether the Administration would effectively confront a reversal in either area.
''There is a serious reluctance to engage in issues, even pinpoint what the major issues are,'' said Senator John S. McCain, Republican of Arizona.
''The President has done a good job himself,'' Mr. McCain said. ''So we don't know yet whether we've been seeing a couple of aberrations or something that is symptomatic of a more systemic weakness.''
 
Sharpest Test to Date
As Congress struggles to finish its current session, the Administration's Congressional relations and legislative strategy are getting their sharpest test of Mr. Bush's eight months in office.
After an initial victory in the House on a proposed cut in the capital gains tax, the Administration is still grappling with the Senate over the issue. A surprise House vote for Federal financing for some abortions has left Mr. Bush searching for flexibility while trying not to appear to compromise on that hot political issue.
The failed Panamanian coup raised questions about the White House crisis-management operation. And some lawmakers, especially Mr. McCain, criticized the White House for not taking a stand on the fight to repeal the Medicare surtax that finances benefits from insurance covering the catastrophic costs of long-term health care for the elderly.
White House officials said they had seen many pitfalls and few benefits in that issue. ''It isn't all that clear what ought to be done on it,'' Mr. Bush said on Friday. ''And so, we are letting the Congressional process hash this out.''
Mr. McCain and others read that as timidity and also complained that the Administration had tripped over its own feet in the debate. At one point, Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services, made a strong plea for retaining the insurance program, while Mr. Darman informed the Congressmen in writing that Mr. Bush took no position.
Last week, Mr. Sununu and William K. Reilly, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, also sent Congress contradictory messages, this time about a measure on clean-burning fuels.
 
Timing Questioned
The White House's sense of timing has been called into question several times. During the losing battle over the nomination of John G. Tower as Secretary of Defense, Senate Republicans said the White House was late in joining the struggle and then left Mr. Sununu frantically trying to salvage the vote by telephone from the Far East without ever trying to postpone it.
Because Mr. Bush relies more heavily on his personal contacts and lobbying by top aides than did Mr. Reagan, members of Congress and their aides said Frederick D. McClure, Mr. Bush's legislative liaison, has a less effective role that his predecessors.
Mr. McClure disputed that, saying Mr. Bush's personal contacts made his job easier. ''He's not averse to making phone calls when I suggest that he make phone calls,'' Mr. McClure said.
But a senior Republican aide on Capitol Hill said Mr. McClure's staff was inexperienced and ''the White House doesn't always tell his people what is going on.''
A Republican strategist with close ties to the White House said Mr. Bush's top aides had seemed ''amateurish'' in recent weeks on the alternative fuels and health insurance fights.
A Democratic leadership aide said, ''With Reagan, the liaisons' presence wasn't overpowering, but it was certainly a presence among our own membership. I don't think the Bush people have been able to get that same degree of infiltration into the Democratic members.''
Some Republicans said the Administration had expended too much energy on the capital gains issue.
 
Overwhelming Emphasis
''Capital gains permeates everything,'' said the Republican strategist. ''George Bush wants to win at all costs, even if it so ruptures the atmosphere that meaningful deficit reduction becomes doubtful and the prospects for a budget summit in 1991 grow dimmer.''
Senator Warren B. Rudman, Republican of New Hampshire, said some Senate Republicans did not think the tax issue was as important as the White House presented it. But he said such differences were not serious and attributed much of the increased contentiousness to normal late-session tensions.
''This is stress time,'' Mr. Rudman said. ''If Valium were not a prescription drug, I expect there'd be a ton of it used up here every morning.''
But as the 1990 Congressional campaigns grow closer, the bipartisan mood seems certain to be strained.
''There's an exasperation here with the lack of leadership, lack of purpose,'' said Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House majority leader. ''The best thing the Administration seems able to do is public relations, press conferences, worrying about the way things look.''
For his part, Mr. Bush plans a series of campaign trips over the next six weeks to raise money for Republican Congressional candidates in states like Florida, Illinois, Rhode Island and Texas, White House officials said.
In doing so, he planned to make a more partisan assault on Congress while trying to keep up the bipartisan effort in Washington, the officials said.
''You're going to see more campaigning for candidates by this President than you've seen in a long time,'' a senior aide said. ''You don't have to let a good strong partisan political operation interfere with bipartisan legislative work.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Frederick D. McClure and President Bush (NYT/Michael Geissinger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BUDGETS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); MEDICARE (60%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



391 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 15, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: The Tools a Writer Used for Building An Industrial Novel

BYLINE: By BENEDICT NIGHTINGALE

 BODY:
In his novel ''Sybil,'' Benjamin Disraeli wrote of a Britain that consisted of two nations ''as ignorant of each other's habits, thoughts and feelings as if they were inhabitants of different planets.'' He had in mind the rich and the poor of the Victorian era; but he might have been talking prophetically about the subtler splits of the 1980's.
He might have been referring to what David Lodge calls the two cultures of modern middle-class England: the intelligentsia and the industrial community, divided as they are by suspicion, prejudice and scorn.
That is certainly Mr. Lodge's own view; and as an intellectual working in grimy Birmingham, he is well placed to know. Half a mile from his home is the university where he is an honorary professor of modern English literature, and a bit farther away are the drab factories that actually crank out the city's wealth. Aptly enough, Disraeli's words form part of the epigraph to Mr. Lodge's latest novel, ''Nice Work,'' published by Viking; and ''Nice Work'' itself is a conscious attempt to revitalize the tradition of ''Sybil,'' Dickens's ''Hard Times,'' Elizabeth Gaskell's ''North and South,'' and other such analyses of a changing Britain. 
As an updated industrialist or state of England novel, it is by common consent the most ambitious book that Mr. Lodge has yet written. ''Changing Places'' and ''Small World,'' his fictional guidebooks to academic life, have already made him a cult figure on both sides of the Atlantic. But the critics were still more enthusiastic about ''Nice Work'' when it was published in his native Britain and, just recently, in the United States.
The idea for ''Nice Work'' began to gestate in Mr. Lodge's mind soon after the appearance of ''Small World'' in 1984, and partly because of that book's reception. Some reviewers, Philip Larkin among them, had questioned the wisdom of writing about jet-setting professors at a time when British universities were struggling to survive severe Government cuts.
Again, Mr. Lodge said he was worried by the wider impact of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's economic policies. ''You could see that England was being really shaken up, really changed, and this had caused a terrific recession in the engineering industries around here,'' he said in a recent interview. ''I thought it was time to write about a nonacademic side of Birmingham I'd never worked with before.''
 
The Great Divide
Accordingly, ''Nice Work'' turned out to be partly a troubled if comic communique from the groves of academe, partly a sharp if wry critique of their inhabitants. One of Mr. Lodge's two principal characters, Robyn Penrose, is a post-structuralist critic of rare ability, yet she is unable to rely on a permanent job at Rummidge, as Birmingham University has been rechristened.
Again, her special subject is the Victorian industrial novel, yet she feels no need to understand the complexities of modern industry. For the other main character, Vic Wilcox, who actually runs an engineering works, she at first feels nothing but vague disdain, born of socialism, feminism and intellectual superiority.
That seems to Mr. Lodge symptomatic - and worrying, given the predicament of the universities, and their arts faculties in particular. As he said: ''I was especially interested in the tragic irony that English and literary studies have reached a point in their theoretical development when they've become almost incapable of communicating to the layman at the very historical moment when they've most needed to justify their existence.
''The brightest and most innovative people in literary criticism are as impenetrable as nuclear physicists. The left-wing intelligentsia is trapped in a kind of ghetto that only they understand, and so can't bring any leverage to bear on the body politic.''
For Mr. Lodge himself, the accusation is close to the bone. Literary theory is his own academic subject, and he is assembling a collection of essays on deconstructionism and other such topics. Though he tries to avoid becoming too abstract, and describes himself as ''basically a liberal humanist trying to domesticate structuralist and post-structuralist ideas,'' he is well aware how limited the view from the ivory tower can be. Indeed, he knew he would somehow have to expand his horizons before he began writing ''Nice Work.''
In early 1986, under the not-altogether-false guise of learning more about job opportunities for students, he began to shadow a friend who ran an engineering company. That meant sitting in on meetings, visiting clients, getting to know just how industry and commerce functioned.
''For instance, he took me to a foundry which was the dirtiest, most infernal, strangest-looking place I'd ever seen,'' Mr. Lodge said. ''I can remember molten metal coming down like a river of lava from the top, and two Sikhs with their white eyes and teeth poking away at it like a couple of devils. As soon as I saw it, I knew I wanted it in the novel.''
 
At the Narrative Core
The incident duly appeared there, along with several others. It is hard to believe that a managing director would send underlings to lurk day and night outside a client's factory, in hopes of discovering which of his competitors was supplying it with cheap parts; but Mr. Lodge's friend did precisely that and, like Vic Wilcox, found that it was a close business associate who was undercutting him. Indeed, the shadow scheme itself became the novel's narrative core.
''I realized it was a good device for bringing a young woman from an educational background into contact with a middle-aged businessman,'' Mr. Lodge said. ''And if the woman was a feminist, in that very masculine world, it would increase the conflict, as well as the comedy and the possibilities for debate.''
In the event, Robyn acquires a certain respect for Vic, as he does for her; and that, too, reflects Mr. Lodge's own experience. ''I think that literary culture makes you despise all business, all trade, and that's a very narrow-minded point of view,'' Mr. Lodge said. ''I deplore some aspects of the Thatcher years. I don't believe the marketplace can take care of everything.
''But at least people have been reminded that high culture exists by the generation of wealth, and you can't have universities and National Theaters and so on without industry. Also, I liked the managers I met. They had a gritty, pragmatic quality and seemed very concerned to keep the factories going and the men in them happy. The university world seemed somewhat jaded and enervated by comparison.''
The 54-year-old Mr. Lodge relishes paradox as a writer, and is one as a person. He is of Irish, Belgian and Jewish as well as English descent, the son of a dance musician and an innkeeper's daughter. ''Which means,'' he said, ''I don't fit in any typical groove of the English class system.'' He is a highly successful man who was brought up in relative poverty in one of the drearier lower-middle-class London suburbs. He is also an impishly funny novelist who, though he has given up teaching for writing, has built a solid reputation as a university professor.
''There is a sense in which my fiction has satirized what I actually practice quite seriously as an academic,'' he said. ''In fact, I've had a rather schizophrenic existence. If you're a professor, you're required to show a responsibility to your institution and your students. But writers are essentially rather anarchic and unscrupulous people who question everything, and instead of suppressing evil thoughts will explore them, use them. I think my two careers are ultimately contradictory.''
 
'A Natural Fence Sitter'
Yet the strength of Mr. Lodge's fiction, as perhaps of his life, is that he has embraced rather than resisted contradiction. ''Perhaps I'm a natural fence sitter,'' he said. ''Certainly, my imagination does seem to work in a rather pendulumlike way. You know those plastic key rings with three-dimensional pictures that float to and fro and sometimes seem to overlap, depending on your angle on them? Well, my writing's a bit like that. I seem drawn to situations and themes that have two sides to them. I get pleasure in working out all the possible conflicts there, and I don't feel required to choose between them.''
So Mr. Lodge is pleased rather than worried that the critics have variously described ''Nice Work'' as an anti-Thatcher and a pro-Thatcher book, and have differed radically in the sympathy they have felt for Robyn and Vic, academia and business. He wanted both characters to present their respective cases and, in the end, to acknowledge that their particular world was not the only important one. Indeed, he even admits to finding a moral of sorts in their encounters.
It is one that is implicit in those Victorian industrial novels, and explicit in a later state-of-England book, E. M. Forster's ''Howard's End.'' It appears, as an erudite in joke, on the T-shirt of one of Robyn's students. In Mr. Lodge's view, it could usefully be emblazoned on every university, every place of business, in Britain. It is ''Only Connect.''Pearsond(Viking)

GRAPHIC: Photo of David Lodge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: NICE WORK (BOOK)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PUBLISHING (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ENGINEERING (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: NIGHTINGALE, BENEDICT; LODGE, DAVID



392 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
Markets
A volatile day of trading was anticipated by the financial community and U.S. officials, after the Dow Jones industrial average fell 190.58 points on Friday. The S.E.C. checked with mutual funds and large brokerage houses to get an indication of how much early selling there would be today. [Page A1.] 
Foreign stock markets will set the tone today, determining whether the plunge in New York will spread worldwide, as it did two years ago, or be isolated. News analysis. [D1.] Prices plunged at the opening of trading in Tokyo, but recovered somewhat. At the end of the morning, the Nikkei index was down 407.84 points, or 1.1 percent. Volume was fairly light. [D1.]
Professional investors will be closely watching the ''junk bond'' market for further sharp selloffs and poor liquidity. [D8.]
''You're forever in danger of being lulled into complacency,'' a Wall Street specialist said. But he is confident the markets will not drop today as they did in October 1987. [A1.]
Few top executives seemed overly concerned about the market plunge. Indeed, many welcome an end to speculative trading. [D5.]
 
 
 
Companies
Compaq is to introduce two lightweight computers with performance comparable with that of many desktop machines. They will be the first notebook-size computers with hard disks; one will be powered by a more powerful chip than those used by rivals. [D1.]
Vitro will acquire Anchor and Latchford in deals valued at about $920 million. The resulting company will be the nation's second-largest producer of glass containers. [D1.]
L. J. Hooker was offered $409 million in cash for its American real estate operations by British and American investors. [D9.] Campeau is preparing $80 million of letters of credit so that its suppliers will provide Christmas goods for its stores. [D14.]
UAL executives and investment bankers spent the weekend trying to complete financing for a buyout proposal. It was unclear whether progress was made. [D6.]
 
International Report
The Government is considering an I.B.M. plan to sell a powerful computer to Israel for military use, Administration officials said. Some experts on nuclear proliferation oppose the sale because Israel is developing advanced missiles. [D1.]
Hong Kong's airport plans may be too ambitious, some critics contend, and the colony could suffer a humiliating loss of face if private investors fail to provide support. [D10.]
Financial aftershocks of a crackdown in Beijing rocked Hong Kong the hardest. Many Chinese managers are emigrating. [D10.]
 
The Media Business
Mergers and acquisitions, not authors and books, dominated conversations at this year's Frankfurt Book Fair, the biggest and most important event in publishing. [D11.] These days, American publishers go to Frankfurt primarily to sell books to foreign publishers, rather than buy books for their lists. Publishing. [D11.]
The Washington Times is seeking a new foothold in its battle for readers, but it has failed to dent The Post's dominance. [D11.]
Most classical music stations are profitable, but not enough to avoid takeover artists seeking valuable radio licenses. [D11.]
If Saatchi & Saatchi is to be ''reinvented,'' who will be the inventor? Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D12.]
NBC's record streak at the top of the ratings is likely to end this week, pushed out by ABC and its World Series broadcasts. [C19.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
'Portfolio insurance' is almost forgotten, which could help to stem a slide in stocks. But ''circuit breakers'' may depress prices at the opening today. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
The stock market is likely to overshadow economic reports, including merchandise trade for August and consumer prices for September, that are due for release this week. Credit Markets. [D9.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (91%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (65%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); BEIJING, CHINA (51%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (87%); PUBLISHING (83%); REAL ESTATE (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (78%); BONDS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); MERGERS (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%); BOOKSTORES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (64%); BOOK PUBLISHING (62%); WRITERS (62%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (54%); GLASS MFG (50%); GLASS CONTAINER MFG (50%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 



393 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: The Roots Of a Selloff

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The October slide in stock prices began in Japan and Europe, touched off by rising interest rates, and then spread to the United States with a sharp, startling one-day drop that provoked memories of 1987.
Today, after a weekend of worrying and official reassurances, markets will act first in Asia, then in Europe, and finally in the United States to determine whether the drop will continue or be reversed.
In Tokyo today, stock prices were lower. The Nikkei average of 225 stocks, which had dropped as much as 610 points in early trading, was down 407.84 points, or about 1.1 percent, to 34,708.18 by the end of the morning trading session.
Rising interest rates in Japan and Europe, brought on by government fears of rising inflation and falling currencies, had already led stock prices to fall by 2 percent or more in Japan, West Germany and Britain in the first two weeks of October, even before Wall Street's selloff on Friday sent the Dow Jones industrial average down 190.58 points, or 6.9 percent. 
 
Vulnerable to Bad News
The immediate cause of the Friday plunge was the word that financing for the buyout of the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, was in trouble. But the round of rate increases had created a sense of concern that the American stock market was out of step with markets in other leading industrial nations, leaving share prices on Wall Street more vulnerable to bad news than they might otherwise be.
The foreign markets, able to act first because of the vagaries of time zones, are sending the signal today as to whether the New York plunge will spread worldwide, as it did two years ago, or be isolated.
Some traders in New York said there were signs of limited Japanese buying in the final minutes of trading Friday, after the Dow had dropped by more than 200 points, and voiced hopes that more foreign money would come into the market when trading resumes today.
Today's market action could also show the extent to which foreign investors, as well as those who manage American institutional investment firms, still accept the consensus that pushed stock prices higher for most of this year.
 
New High Reached Last Week
That consensus - based on falling American interest rates, an expectation of continued takeover activity and an economy that was growing at a moderate pace - raised the Dow to a record high early last week, and even with Friday's fall the average is at about the same level as in mid-July, up 18.5 percent from the end of 1988 and 47.8 percent since it fell 508 points on Oct. 19, 1987.
Higher interest rates tend to slow economic growth, but they also help to fight inflation and support the value of a currency. The increase in Japan's discount rate on Wednesday by one-half percentage point, to 3.75 percent, was viewed in part as an effort to slow that country's inflation rate, which officials fear could rise under the weight of higher costs of imported goods if the yen declines in value relative to the dollar.
The Japanese move came on the heel of similar increases the previous week in both West Germany and Britain. Both West Germany and Britain reported poor inflation figures on Friday.
The slower European economies that higher interest rates are expected to bring could reduce the demands of those countries for American goods, thus cutting profits of American companies and increasing the United States trade deficit even if the dollar also drops in value.
 
Signs of Improvement
While the trade deficit has been improving, there have been signs that the improvement was slowing. Concerns regarding that were heightened on Thursday when Japan reported that its seasonally adjusted trade surplus rose in September for the first time since June, reflecting surprisingly strong exports.
International interest rates were rising two years ago, just before the 1987 market crash, but the situation is now sharply different. Then, the United States was under international pressure to raise interest rates to support the dollar, which was falling, and American officials led by James A. Baker 3d, then the Treasury Secretary and now the Secretary of State, reacted angrily to an increase in West German interest rates.
Now the international pressures on the United States are the opposite: to lower interest rates to depress the dollar, which has attracted rising investments this year for reasons ranging from a buoyant takeover market to an increase in ''flight capital'' from investors worried about political instability in several countries.
European investors reacted nervously to the comments by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, in Moscow on Tuesday.
''Attempts to hold interest rates at unsustainably low levels have been shown to result in accelerating inflation,'' he said. ''Similarly, attempts to maintain unrealistic exchange rates may lead to destabilizing international capital flows and have to be abandoned.''
 
Europeans See a Split
Mr. Greenspan's comments may have been intended to be a warning to the Soviet Union, whose official exchange rate for the ruble is far above black market rates. But in Europe, it was seen as an indication of a split between the Federal Reserve and the Treasury, which negotiated the accord by the Group of Seven industrial nations that pledges to hold down the advance of the dollar.
If that interpretation is correct, it could indicate that the Fed would be reluctant to cut interest rates, particularly after Friday's report that producer prices in the United States rose nine-tenths of 1 percent in September, more than many economists had expected. A Fed official said over the weekend that the central bank would take steps to insure the markets had access to sufficient money, but he did not discuss its plans for interest rates.
Two years ago, in the aftermath of the 1987 crash, the Fed reversed course and quickly eased credit, thus reducing interest rates and helping to forestall a widely expected recession. Interest rates on Treasury bills -short-term borrowing by the Government - fell half a percentage point, to 7.2 percent, on Friday as investors foresaw a similar move by the Fed.
Lower rates normally help share prices, and could provide a lift for the stock market when it resumes trading today. But an easing by the Fed is not certain and in any event might not help the corporate raiders and takeover firms, whose ability to borrow money helped to create an expectation of a market pushed ever higher by takeover activity. Interest rates rose on the highly speculative high-yield ''junk bonds'' that those borrowers use to finance their takeovers.
 
Other Financing Problems
The problems with the UAL deal followed several other deals that ran into financing problems, a list that last week included the proposed takeover of MGM-UA by an Australian company and a planned restructuring of Ramada Inc., the hotel and casino operator.
A sign that nervous investors are again ready to buy such junk bonds would be greeted by shareholders with a sigh of relief.
''Nobody concentrated on the fact that the ability to finance the junk bond market was beginning to grind to a halt,'' said Stanley Shopkorn, chief equity trader for Salomon Brothers in New York. He voiced hopes that Friday's fall simply took some speculative excesses out of share prices and that foreign investors, along with American institutions, would return to the market this week.

GRAPHIC: Photo of a trader in the Israeli Stock Exchange, using two telephones (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (68%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (68%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYS)

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INFLATION (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD



394 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Banks: A Caution Flag

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 15

 BODY:
The growing presence of Japanese banks in the United States could invite a backlash, Gerald Corrigan, president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, warned last week.
Twenty United States banks control a total of $30 billion in assets in Japan, while about 36 Japanese banks control $370 billion in the United States, Mr. Corrigan said at an economic conference here Thursday. 
Public policy concerns could be aroused by ''any pattern of future behavior which might be viewed by some as an aggressive strategy of expansion through acquisition,'' Mr. Corrigan said. ''The initial point of friction, if it arises, is likely to be more political than economic.''
Japan must make every effort ''to insure that all barriers, visible and invisible, to expansion and openness in Japanese banking and financial markets are eliminated,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (59%); 

PERSON: CORRIGAN, E GERALD



395 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Silver Lining for Business Chiefs

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOT SPRINGS, Va., Oct. 14

 BODY:
Almost 150 past and present chief executives of American businesses gather here twice a year for a meeting of the Business Council and rarely do they have an event like Friday's stock market plunge to talk about.
But few executives seemed overly troubled by news of the 190-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average, and some were decidedly optimistic.
''This just means that Mobil stock is now a better buy,'' said Allen E. Murray, chairman of the Mobil Corporation. ''If this brings a flight to quality in stocks and blows out some of the speculative fever, I think that would be a good thing.'' 
Robert L. Crandall, the chairman of the AMR Corporation, which owns American Airlines, seemed distinctly pleased with the Wall Street developments as he chatted with fellow chief executives. While he declined to make any public comment some council members predicted that Donald J. Trump might now have a harder time coming up with the financing to complete his $7.5 billion offer for AMR.
''I think some C.E.O.'s are breathing easier, because now they will find it easier to focus on the real business of the company, instead of trying to fend off takeovers,'' said George M. Keller, former chairman of the Chevron Corporation. But he added that there might have been good reason for the stock market's decline.
Mr. Keller noted, for example, that while the stock price of Chevron had risen by 30 percent in the last six months, earnings growth was nowhere near that level. ''I think people finally decided to look at earnings and found out they were not what they thought,'' he said.
Many executives at the meeting here at the Homestead Hotel seemed startled by the size of the decline and attributed it to the short-term investment horizon of Wall Street players.
''I'm surprised about this,'' said David T. Kearns, chairman and chief executive of the Xerox Corporation. ''The problem is that nowadays everyone moves at the same time. When one goes, everyone goes.''
John F. Akers, chairman of the International Business Machines Corporation, said, ''Why would the value of American business be all of a sudden 7 percent or so less?''
To some executives, the stock market's fall reinforced their doubts about the economy. Lewis T. Preston, chairman of J. P. Morgan & Company, warned that interest rates were too high, the Bush Administration and Congress were not doing enough to reduce the budget deficit and foreign markets could lose confidence and move out of dollar investments.
Kenneth H. Olsen, chief executive of the Digital Equipment Corporation, worried that the country was spending too much on consumption and too little on future productivity and not saving enough. ''The cost of capital is the most important single factor in making the United States economy competitive,'' he said. ''And we are not investing enough in competitiveness and not investing enough in the future.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); XRX (NYSE) (63%); IBMC (BRU) (63%); IBM (NYSE) (63%); IBM (LSE) (63%); HPQ (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (84%); AMR CORP (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); MOBIL CORP (71%); XEROX CORP (63%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (63%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (60%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BONDS (77%); BUDGETS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); AIRLINES (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); COMPANY EARNINGS (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (62%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C DONALD TRUMP (67%); 



396 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Professionals Watching the 'Junk Bond' Market

BYLINE: By ANISE C. WALLACE

 BODY:
Professional investors say they will be watching the ''junk bond'' market closely this morning. If this $200 billion market of high-yield, high-risk securities continues to suffer sharp selloffs with poor trading liquidity, the stock market is likely to decline further, traders say.
Many experts believe the junk bond market may be hard hit today. Some closed-end junk bond mutual funds that use ''margin,'' or credit, to enhance the yield on their funds were given margin calls late last week, people at Wall Street brokerage firms said. This means the fund managers cannot wait for prices of their bonds to stabilize before selling. They are being forced to sell junk bonds from their portfolios to raise cash to meet the margin call. 
On Friday, some money managers found special significance in the unwillingness of Japanese banks to finance the proposed buyout of the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines.
 
Lenders of Last Resort
With the junk bond market unwilling to finance deals and United States banks beginning to slow their lending in such deals, the Japanese banks had been viewed as the lenders of last resort for these transactions, said Neil J. Weisman, general partner of Chilmark Capital Management, a New York firm that invests $220 million. ''Who is left after the Japanese connection?'' he asked.
The stock market's nervousness comes a month after the junk bond market began crumbling. Many junk bond investors have been spooked because some large consumer-oriented companies that issued bonds to finance leveraged buyouts or other restructurings are having trouble with their finances.
Executives at some of these companies, like the Seaman Furniture Company, are finding that the consumer is not spending at the rate they had anticipated.
And in other cases companies that hoped to pay off their creditors by selling corporate assets are finding that with so many businesses for sale, buyers are not willing to pay top prices. On Friday, some investors speculated that the sharp selling in bonds of RJR Holdings, the largest and most actively traded securities in the junk bond market, reflected concerns about the ability of this company to sell divisions to pay back creditors.
 
'Two-Tier Market'
''It is going to be a two-tier market,'' said Pamela McCann, vice president of the GTE Investment Management Corporation, a GTE subsidiary that manages the company's $10 billion pension fund. ''The market is going to favor companies with long-term positive earnings, not asset plays.''
And Leon G. Cooperman, a partner at Goldman, Sachs & Company responsible for the firm's Investment Management Group, said the ''dysfunction'' in the junk bond market is suggesting that the economy is weaker than Government statistics indicate.
Individual investors appear not to have been involved in Friday's selling. Fidelity Investments in Boston used the Gallup polling organization to survey some shareholders over the weekend. The firm found that very few of its customers had withdrawn their assets from stock or mutual funds on Friday, said Neal Litvack, vice president for marketing.
Like other mutual fund organizations, Fidelity has been suffering steady redemptions from its junk bond mutual funds over the last month. Customers have withdrawn almost $100 million from the fund and over the weekend they took out an additional $20 million from the high-yielding mutual fund.
 
Replacing 'Bridge Loans'
The turmoil in the junk bond market will almost certainly hurt the companies that have short-term ''bridge loans'' with Wall Street firms. The rates on these loans, which are used in buyouts or other recapitalizations, are almost 15 percent, or as much as 6 percentage points over the bond yield paid by a high-rated company. If the turmoil in the junk bond market continues, such companies, like Prime Computer and Grand Union, could find it almost impossible to replace these expensive loans with junk bonds.
And if the companies must then pay higher-than-expected interest rates at a time when the economy may be slowing, some companies could default, leaving Wall Street firms like First Boston, Shearson Lehman Hutton, Salomon Brothers and Merrill Lynch with nonperforming loans.
Over the weekend, Wall Street executives dismissed the suggestion that the bridge loans could create a problem for them. ''I don't see a scenario of securities firms being pressed to the wall by bridge loans,'' said Barry S. Friedberg, a managing director of investment banking at Merrill Lynch. Kohlberg, Kravis, Robertsd (RJR)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (69%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (69%); SEAMAN FURNITURE CO INC (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); FMR CORP (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME HIGH YIELD BONDS (94%); BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (69%); STATISTICS (63%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, ANISE C LEON G COOPERMAN (50%); 



397 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Activity Hinges On Stocks

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Much as it was two years ago, near-term developments in the credit markets are completely dependent on how stock market investors react this week to Friday's stunning 190.58 drop in the Dow Jones industrial average.
Trading in the stock market is likely to overshadow a heavy schedule of economic reports including merchandise trade for August and consumer prices for September, all of which are due this week.
Most market analysts were unwilling to go beyond predicting a bumpy opening for the stock market this morning. But most said that in a number of important respects conditions now are fundamentally different -and better - than they were two years ago. 
Despite a sharp drop on Friday, the dollar is not the battered currency it was in October 1987. Inflation, which because of a rise in energy prices moved higher last month, is nevertheless perceived by economists to be trending lower, while two years ago prices were seen as moving higher. And interest rates, which rose all through the spring and summer of 1987 as the stock market surged, have been declining for the last six months, albeit at a slow rate.
 
Conditions Are Better
''In general, conditions surrounding the crash of two years ago are not present today,'' said Lawrence A. Kudlow, chief economist at Bear Stearns & Company. ''The stability of the dollar and the declining trend in interest rates are major plusses for the financial markets.''
In the aftermath of tumbling stock prices, what had been a gentle decline in interest rates turned into a near free-fall on Friday, as investors sought a safe haven in Treasury securities.
By the close of trading, rates on three-month bills had plummeted by 70 basis points, or hundredths of a point, to 7.16 percent on a bond equivalent basis. And yields on the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds fell to a late offered rate of 7.86 percent, down from a late Thursday yield of 8.01 percent.
''What we saw on Friday was a flight to quality, which is a signal of nervousness,'' said Sanford J. Grossman, a professor of finance at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and one of a group of experts who worked on a study of the 1987 crash commissioned by the New York Stock Exchange. ''But I would be surprised if we see a 500-point down move in the stock market on Monday.''
Further interest rate declines are likely, if not certain, should stock prices sell off sharply again this week. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it would respond as it did two years ago by pumping liquidity into the system and engineering a further drop in short-term rates.
While a stable dollar and declining interest rates could help ease a free-fall in equity prices, some analysts suggested that a further decline in the stock market might do more damage this time than it did two years ago.
 
'Economy Is Weaker'
''The economy is definitely weaker now than it was in October 1987,'' said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Bank. ''But the key element in light of what has happened in the stock market is that history doesn't necessarily repeat itself.''
Moreover, a slower pace of economic growth and high debt burdens are cutting into corporate profits.
Citing Commerce Department data, Robert A. Schwartz, a vice president and senior financial economist at Merrill Lynch, said that in the second quarter more than 30 percent of cash flow at non-financial corporations was used to service debt, the highest that ratio has ever been.
''The last previous peak was in the recession of 1974, and we are beyond that,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''There is no question that servicing the debt is eating into profits.''
A further decline in stock prices would push interest rates lower, but analysts said that stable or higher equity prices would likely push rates up from their Friday levels.
''If this is a one-day wonder, there will be some adjustments in interest rates,'' Mr. Fine said. ''The market has a very, very good memory. What traders did on Friday was to hedge against that memory.''
Participants in the high-yield ''junk bond'' market, where prices have been under pressure for months, were not prepared to predict when the slide would end. But they added that with Friday's steep decline in Treasury yields interest rates on junk bonds have reached eye-popping proportions.
''We probably started Friday with yields on junk issues between 650 basis points and 700 basis points above Treasuries, and with the rally in the Treasury market, it will be even wider this week,'' said Mark Vaselkiv, a vice president at the T. Rowe Price High Yield Fund.
''I may be biased, but I would argue that people consider taking a little money out of equities and look for some high-quality junk issues,'' Mr. Vaselkiv said.
James Caywood, president of Caywood Christian, a San Diego money management firm with a portfolio of more than $2 billion in high-yield bonds, said, ''Some of my brokers told me early Friday that non-traditional buyers were purchasing issues like Fort Howard zero-coupon bonds, issues that are offering a better rate of return than is being offered on stocks.''
Because of the big price declines that have already occurred, a further steep drop in equity prices would probably not do a commensurate amount of damage in the high-yield market, participants said. Fears of an impending recession pushed junk bond prices down sharply after the 1987 stock market crash.
''The difference for us right now is that high-yield paper is significantly undervalued,'' Mr. Vaselkiv said. ''In 1987, junk was expensive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (67%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



398 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Still Uneasy After Beijing Turmoil

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HONG KONG

 BODY:
When Communist authorities cracked down on protesters on June 4, the blood was shed 1,200 miles from here, in Beijing. But the greatest financial aftershocks occurred in Hong Kong, sending many Chinese managers rushing to emigrate and leaving gaps in the middle and upper ranks of corporations.
Along with the shrinking pool of talented executives, Hong Kong is facing rising uncertainty about the growth of its economic relationship with China.
On Monday, June 5, the Hong Kong stock market lost about 22 percent of its value, or $16.6 billion in United States currency, in the territory's biggest stock plunge since October 1987. 
 
Slump in Tourism, Too
In the aftermath, the tourism industry also slumped, mostly because fewer travelers were venturing into China, and in June only 385,000 tourists came to Hong Kong - or 20.5 percent fewer than a year earlier. Hotel occupancy rates were 71 percent in July, compared with 93 percent a year ago, according to the tourist bureau's most recent statistics.
No one is writing off Hong Kong's future, for the British colony has demonstrated enormous resiliency in the past. But the latest troubles have reminded Hong Kong that dependence on the Chinese market carries risks as well as rewards, and its 5.7 million residents are still grappling with several economic challenges that find their roots in the shootings on Tiananmen Square.
''Before June 4, one would have expected to see the economy slow down gradually,'' said David K. P. Li, chief executive of the Bank of East Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. ''Now, people are saying there will be more of a slowdown than before. This year, we will have a respectable growth rate, but next year will be slower.''
A renewed and even deeper distrust of the Chinese Government has intensified the desire to emigrate of many skilled, educated Hong Kong Chinese. Many are leaving for Canada, Australia and the United States; those with less money or fewer skills are inquiring about Panama, Colombia and Mauritius.
''Most people were sitting on the fence, but now, 90 percent of the people sitting on the fence have decided to emigrate,'' said Roderick W. Macneil, president of Macneil Pacific Ltd, a consulting firm based in Hong Kong.
''If your mind is on emigration, it's not on your work or on spotting opportunity in Hong Kong,'' he added. ''That can't be a good thing for Hong Kong. If out of 100 entrepreneurs, 50 are thinking about how to start a business in Toronto, that's not a lot of energy going into creative venture.''
 
Emigrants May Not Return
Although some emigrants may return with new passports before 1997, when Hong Kong reverts to Chinese rule, most probably will not.
About 45,000 Hong Kong Chinese emigrated last year, and the Government has said that number will rise to more than 55,000 this year. The expected increase in emigration will put greater strains on businesses in banking, accounting, computers and other services that are crucial for Hong Kong's growth as a financial and headquarters center.
''Hong Kong Chinese used to be very choosy about what financial center they emigrated to,'' said one foreign trader in Hong Kong. ''Now some of them think it's O.K. to get a job as a dishwasher in Mexico.''
Experienced Chinese managers and technicians will be costlier and harder to find, and companies will be forced to meet the shortage by bringing in foreign executives at higher salaries.
Another basic building block of Hong Kong's economy, business linked to the neighboring Guangdong province of China, is facing new uncertainties.
Hong Kong is China's largest investor, with small labor-intensive factories mostly in southern Guangdong, where Chinese speak the same Cantonese dialect as in Hong Kong. Likewise, China is Hong Kong's largest trading partner, accounting for 29.1 percent of Hong Kong's total trade last year, and 30.1 percent in the first seven months of 1989.
Moreover, many companies not directly conducting business in China are in industries, like real estate, transportation, hotels and some financial services, that are indirectly linked to China.
China began an austerity program last fall, however, and Chinese businesses have since been plagued by cash shortages and tight foreign exchange. The events of June 4 in Beijing have further aggravated cash-flow problems.
One long-time exporter of refrigerators to China said that since June, Chinese authorities had simply halted import licenses for luxury items, like his product, and he doubts he will make another sale this year. China is trying to slash its imports to help balance its trade deficit, and although trade with Hong Kong has increased substantially this year, it is expected to grow more slowly in the future.
Flows of Hong Kong capital into China have also slowed, economists and China analysts say, and most investors will wait to see if the Chinese Government will alter its economic policies in Southern China. Manufacturers are considering expanding, as some already have, into other Asian countries, like Thailand and the Philippines.
Yet for companies who can pay back their investment quickly and earn a significant return in a few years, the alternatives to China are not always appealing. Greater distances, unfamiliar customs and language barriers usually mean higher costs.
''Thailand's bureaucracy is bureaucratic, too,'' said Raymond K. F. Ch'ien, managing director at Lam Soon Hong Kong Group, a packaging company. ''It's easier to operate in Guangdong.''
Companies may thus still prefer to expand in China, and presumably they would be flexible enough, as they have in the past, to find the pattern to survive.
While Hong Kong faces serious challenges, its problems are not fatal. The territory's economy had overheated and growth in gross domestic product was already cooling down from 13.8 percent in 1987 to 7.3 percent in 1988 to an earlier expectation of 6 percent this year. Mainly because of the turmoil in China, however, the growth forecast was revised to 5 percent.
There is talk about relocating the back-office operations of international service and financial businesses to cities that are more politically stable, like Singapore. But economists and executives say that even with political uncertainty Hong Kong is still more attractive. It is less regulated than Singapore, and its telecommunications network, the widespread use of English, low taxes and central location in Asia give it an edge over many other places.

GRAPHIC: Graphs of the daily close of the Hong Seng Index; Hong Kong's trade (sources: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter; International Monetary Fund (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0023 (HKSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (97%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PANAMA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF EAST ASIA LTD (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HONG KONG; CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TOURISM (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); TRENDS (78%); LODGING (76%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (75%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (74%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); POLITICS (60%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL



399 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Actually, Prohibition Was a Success

BYLINE: By Mark H. Moore; Mark H. Moore is professor of criminal justice at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
History has valuable lessons to teach policy makers but it reveals its lessons only grudgingly.
Close analyses of the facts and their relevance is required lest policy makers fall victim to the persuasive power of false analogies and are misled into imprudent judgments. Just such a danger is posed by those who casually invoke the ''lessons of Prohibition'' to argue for the legalization of drugs.
What everyone ''knows'' about Prohibition is that it was a failure. It did not eliminate drinking; it did create a black market. That in turn spawned criminal syndicates and random violence. Corruption and widespread disrespect for law were incubated and, most tellingly, Prohibition was repealed only 14 years after it was enshrined in the Constitution. 
The lesson drawn by commentators is that it is fruitless to allow moralists to use criminal law to control intoxicating substances. Many now say it is equally unwise to rely on the law to solve the nation's drug problem.
But the conventional view of Prohibition is not supported by the facts.
First, the regime created in 1919 by the 18th Amendment and the Volstead Act, which charged the Treasury Department with enforcement of the new restrictions, was far from all-embracing. The amendment prohibited the commercial manufacture and distribution of alcoholic beverages; it did not prohibit use, nor production for one's own consumption. Moreover, the provisions did not take effect until a year after passage -plenty of time for people to stockpile supplies.
Second, alcohol consumption declined dramatically during Prohibition. Cirrhosis death rates for men were 29.5 per 100,000 in 1911 and 10.7 in 1929. Admissions to state mental hospitals for alcoholic psychosis declined from 10.1 per 100,000 in 1919 to 4.7 in 1928.
Arrests for public drunkennness and disorderly conduct declined 50 percent between 1916 and 1922. For the population as a whole, the best estimates are that consumption of alcohol declined by 30 percent to 50 percent.
Third, violent crime did not increase dramatically during Prohibition. Homicide rates rose dramatically from 1900 to 1910 but remained roughly constant during Prohibition's 14 year rule. Organized crime may have become more visible and lurid during Prohibition, but it existed before and after.
Fourth, following the repeal of Prohibition, alcohol consumption increased. Today, alcohol is estimated to be the cause of more than 23,000 motor vehicle deaths and is implicated in more than half of the nation's 20,000 homicides. In contrast, drugs have not yet been persuasively linked to highway fatalities and are believed to account for 10 percent to 20 percent of homicides.
Prohibition did not end alcohol use. What is remarkable, however, is that a relatively narrow political movement, relying on a relatively weak set of statutes, succeeded in reducing, by one-third, the consumption of a drug that had wide historical and popular sanction.
This is not to say that society was wrong to repeal Prohibition. A democratic society may decide that recreational drinking is worth the price in traffic fatalities and other consequences. But the common claim that laws backed by morally motivated political movements cannot reduce drug use is wrong.
Not only are the facts of Prohibition misunderstood, but the lessons are misapplied to the current situation.
The U.S. is in the early to middle stages of a potentially widespread cocaine epidemic. If the line is held now, we can prevent new users and increasing casualties. So this is exactly not the time to be considering a liberalization of our laws on cocaine. We need a firm stand by society against cocaine use to extend and reinforce the messages that are being learned through painful personal experience and testimony.
The real lesson of Prohibition is that the society can, indeed, make a dent in the consumption of drugs through laws. There is a price to be paid for such restrictions, of course. But for drugs such as heroin and cocaine, which are dangerous but currently largely unpopular, that price is small relative to the benefits.

GRAPHIC: photo of Federal agents destroying beer in 1930

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIQUOR; PROHIBITION; DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOMICIDE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (87%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); MENTAL ILLNESS (76%); CRIMINAL LAW (75%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE MFG (70%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (68%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE WHOLESALERS (65%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (61%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (51%); LIVER DISEASE (50%); 

PERSON: MOORE, MARK H (PROF)



400 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: PATTERNS;
Turbulence in London

BYLINE: By Woody Hochswender

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 16

 BODY:
After all the pushing and shoving in Milan, store buyers and fashion editors seemed relieved to be in London. But the English fashion scene is far from sedate, and the backstage business is quite as turbulent as Seventh Avenue.
A story in The Financial Times here today had the headline ''Fashion trade hangs on by a thin thread,'' and described an industry troubled by sluggish consumer spending, steep rises in imports and intense pressure for rapid profits by large retailers.
Sound familiar? This week, matters were made even more unsettled by the news from Wall Street. British suppliers remember the fall-off in orders from America in the wake of the October 1987 stock plunge. 
While American buyers and editors gave the shows mixed reviews, they carefully shopped the large trade exhibit at the Olympia 2 convention hall and the popular London retail streets, especially Newburgh and Carnaby (yes), looking for new ideas. As fashion remains in a conservative period, trend-setting London has diminished in importance, but buyers still find it influential in the junior market.
''The street fashion is always here, and it's coutured and picked up all over the world,'' said Bernie Ozer, a vice president of Associated Merchandising Corporation, a consulting concern that reports on trends to many American retailers.
Mr. Ozer added that American stores also send representatives to London shows for knitwear from companies like Artwork, and evening clothes by designers like Murray Arbeid, Ben de Lisi, Tomasz Starzewski, and Monica Chong.
Mr. de Lisi, a native of Long Island who designs and shows his clothes in London, said Bonwit Teller, one of his two New York accounts, sent no regular buying team to England this season. This summer he had been forced to halt shipments when Bonwit's filed for bankruptcy protection.
The softened tailoring so evident in Milan this season was also a feature of the London collections. It is a case of business driving fashion, Mr. de Lisi said.
''It's less expensive to produce,'' he said. ''I've used a few basic shapes throughout the entire collection. No zippers. No fly fronts. No waistbands. No structure. When the buyers tell you they can't afford the clothes, you have to change.''
Another problem for British designers is that many important American buyers now skip the London shows because of hefty minimum orders required by large Milan fashion houses, which deplete their budgets, or ''open to buys.''
Joe Casely-Hayford, who was nominated for the British Fashion Council's Designer of the Year award (to be announced Tuesday night), was packing up his collection to bring it to a showroom in Paris for the first time. Many others do the same.
But Britain's fashion establishment maintained a stiff upper lip, perhaps abetted by their crystal jewelry, a symbol of new-age optimism that everyone seemed to wear.
 
Witty Street Styles
''The white is for purity and spirituality,'' said Rifat Ozbek, the designer whose all-white collection opened the London shows.
The witty clothes, based on American street styles, were well-received, but buyers and editors were wondering if the designer would have the audacity to sell them that way. White, after all, doesn't travel well on the New York City subway.
Those who visited Mr. Ozbek's loft showroom at Haunch of Venison Yard, an alley off Bond Street, and examined the sequined belt packs (called ''bum packs'' here), rhinestone-embroidered knapsacks and leather jackets with ''New Age'' in mirrored letters on the back, discovered that the clothes were also available in colors. This was a concession, Mr. Ozbek said, to his business people.
Tommy Perse, the owner of Maxfield, a high-fashion store on Melrose Avenue in Los Angeles, was buying the collection in white.
''This line is perfect for L.A.,'' Mr. Perse said. ''They can wear it everywhere. The clothes are very young, but California women are very body-conscious.''
Prices were definitely Beverly Hills. A sequined knapsack will retail in the United States for $400, the belt pack $200. The same backpack in rhinestone embroidery, which gives it a dazzling mirrored effect, will run about $6,500, the belt pack $2,000. A baseball jacket with the mirrored look is expected to cost $30,000.
There was no price quoted for the rhinestoned leather basketball shoes. Mr. Ozbek is giving the one-of-a-kind sneakers to Neneh Cherry, the rap singer. They just happened to fit her.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FASHION PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (77%); ENGLAND (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (96%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (72%); ASSOCIATED MERCHANDISING CORP (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: APPAREL; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES; CONSUMERS AND CONSUMPTION FASHION & APPAREL (90%); TRENDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); 

PERSON: HOCHSWENDER, WOODY

 
