

401 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Wary Eye on Crime as Economy Sinks

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and AL BAKER

 BODY:
It is the question on the minds of New Yorkers, once they stop pondering the fate of their 401(k)'s: If the city's economy sinks to depths not seen in decades, will crime return with a vengeance?
Expert opinions differ, but the question is hardly illogical. The last time stocks on Wall Street fell hard, in 1987, crime was exploding, and the city saw historic highs in murders in the following years.
Before that, the fiscal crisis of the 1970s helped lead to the abandonment of neighborhoods, failing schools and startling crime rates: robberies built through those years to a high in 1981, when there were 107,495 of them, for an average of 294 a day. (Last year's total reported robberies, 21,787, was the lowest figure in modern history.)
''Every recession since the late '50s has been associated with an increase in crime and, in particular, property crime and robbery, which would be most responsive to changes in economic conditions,'' said Richard Rosenfeld, a sociologist at the University of Missouri-St. Louis. Typically, he said, ''there is a year lag between the economic change and crime rates.'' 
New York, of course, has over the last 15 years seen an extraordinary drop in crime, from the most serious to the mildly irritating. But across all those years, economists and sociologists have debated how much of the success was attributable to new trends in policing and how much to other factors, including a robust economy.
Now, if the dire predictions of economic hardship prove accurate, the city may be poised to find out in a real-time experiment. And it will have to conduct that experiment with thousands fewer police officers than it had in 2001.
For his part, the New York police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, said he did not subscribe to the idea that there was a strong connection between a city's financial fortunes and its safety. He said he and his top commanders had had informal talks about the current economic conditions and what they might mean for crime, but had set no specific policy changes in motion that are related to economic circumstances.
''We have had lots of conversations, but not a tactical or strategic meeting,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''The reason for that is we have not seen it manifest itself in economic downturns in the past. But we have to be sensitive to the issue.''
In Los Angeles, Police Chief William J. Bratton said California had been struggling with an ailing economy for some time but had seen no appreciable rise in crime. In Providence, R.I., however, Col. Dean M. Esserman, the police chief, said he had recently seen a shift for the worse.
Neighborhoods are changing as homes are abandoned or foreclosed on, he said. More young people are on the streets. There are more Fire Department calls as people steal copper plumbing from empty houses, causing flooding.
''I see poverty as having a tremendous impact on both spirit and crime, and it is palpable,'' he said in telephone interview after attending a national meeting of police chiefs in Washington on Wednesday on crime and the economy.
The Police Executive Research Forum said that in preparing for the national meeting, it conducted a survey of more than 200 law enforcement agencies in the last week of July.
Nearly 40 percent of the agencies said that home foreclosures had produced an impact on their law enforcement activities, either by a loss in tax revenue or an uptick in crime around abandoned houses. In Santa Ana, Calif., for instance, the police said the large number of foreclosures meant the empty houses were attracting gangs and prostitutes.
Interviews with criminologists, economists and police commanders, in New York and around the nation, suggest that in the end the correlation between fiscal calamity and rising crime may be a nuanced equation, as it was in the Great Depression, when crime rates dropped from their upswings during Prohibition.
It is rare, many said, that one would see the crime rate rise based on occasional opportunistic criminal activity that comes with a tight economy: people shoplifting, for instance, when the family budget gets pinched. But the mortgage crisis and house foreclosures could set off reactions that hurt neighborhoods, giving rise to a dynamic that becomes more conducive to criminal behavior.
''You see a strong relationship between falling wages and higher unemployment rates for less educated men and crime rates that tend to go up,'' said Bruce A. Weinberg, an associate professor of economics at Ohio State University, who studied data from 1979 to 1997.
Others have reached different conclusions. In fact, some researchers have suggested that it is in economic good times when the threat of crime may be greatest. In urban settings, at least, there are more potential victims: more people walking the streets, carrying shopping bags, lining up at A.T.M.'s or driving around and parking their expensive cars.
''One thing we know is that robbery typically takes place in areas where people go to A.T.M.'s, convenience stores, and if money is tighter, they are less likely to be out and about,'' said Peter K. Manning, a professor at the College of Criminal Justice at Northeastern University.
In a city like New York, which has been so dependent on the financial industry, the crisis that has struck the markets is expected to be felt in the unskilled work force that feeds into the markets, like service industries, transportation and delivery jobs.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has used the specter of grim economic fortunes to push to change the city's 15-year-old term limits law and stay in City Hall for four more years, arguing that he is best suited among politicians to face the city's economic storm.
The crisis, Mayor Bloomberg has said, presents challenges more grave than those New York confronted after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But leaving aside the theoretical question of whether a fiscal downturn will provoke more crime, police officials are worried about the impact on the department and its effectiveness as a consequence of tightened city budgets.
The police force, with a head count already down by thousands, is not likely to receive a huge influx of cash for hiring or overtime costs if times are rough. On Aug. 31, the count was 36,265 police officers, down by about 4,000 from the peak strength in 2000, a result of tight budgets and recruiting difficulties that stemmed in part from a low starting salary. Recently, City Hall has asked the department for $94 million worth of suggested cuts to its budget -- or 2.5 percent of its budget -- for the fiscal year ending next June, Mr. Kelly said. The administration sought $192 million more in cuts for the following fiscal year, though it is unclear if those cuts will be carried out.
Still, officials here have enjoyed more than a decade of impressive crime reduction -- in good and bad fiscal times -- and say that even if sharp increases in crime are tied to bad economic conditions, the police are better outfitted than in years past for addressing them.
Commissioner Kelly says he always analyzes crime data in a way that allows the department to alter its strategies once trends emerge. At a minimum, he makes decisions about how manpower and resources are allocated every six months, when each new class of rookie officers hits the streets.
Mr. Kelly used a program that assigns the newly minted officers to places that were trouble spots around the city during the last downturn, after the Sept. 11 attacks and the resulting municipal belt-tightening the city faced in 2002 and 2003. By pinpointing neighborhoods -- even stretches of blocks within police precincts -- and positioning extra officers there, the department drove crime down 30 percent in some places, anchoring overall annual reductions.
Crime in the city is down so far this year, too. As of Oct. 5, the most recent date for which data is available, overall reported crime was down 3.2 percent compared with the same period last year, police statistics show. The number of murders rose -- to 400 this year from 359 by Oct. 5, 2007, an 11.4 percent increase -- though even the new figure is nearly 9 percent lower than in 2006.
Mr. Bratton, who in the 1990s was the New York City police commissioner, said that poor economic conditions ''can be an influence on crime rates,'' but not a central cause.
In the fiscal crisis in New York in the 1970s, he said, it was not the overall economic downturn but the decision to lay off hordes of police officers that made the city a ''hell on earth.'' Though Los Angeles is experiencing rising unemployment and poverty and an immigrant work force struggling to find jobs, the police budget remains robust and the overall crime rate is headed down.
''Those are tough choices,'' Mr. Bratton said. ''Where are you going to put the scarce tax dollars?'' He added: ''I would advocate it is the wrong thing to do if you start impacting police.''
David M. Kennedy, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in Manhattan, said New York achieved its crime-fighting success in part because the department attacked all levels of crime, and fundamentally altered the public's sense of what was acceptable.
That, combined with a decline in the use of crack cocaine, an increase in imprisonments and tough policing strategies, helped push violent crime ''down hugely,'' he said. In contrast to the 1960s, when crime rose menacingly even though the economy was operating at a peak, the decline of crime in the 1990s came during a robust economy, he said.
''There are clearly tidal forces in crime that can overwhelm the effect of economic changes in both directions,'' Professor Kennedy said.
Most violent crime is not committed for economic gain, he said. For example, drug crimes are bred in a street culture in which people are obsessed with establishing and maintaining a reputation, and they end up responding with violence, he said.
''But it is not directly about money,'' he said. ''The declines in the crack market are why things got better in the last 15 years. And much of the time that it was burning our collective house down was a period of economic prosperity.''
Whatever fate awaits New Yorkers, many say they are bracing for a crime increase, particularly in petty crimes, if the economy gets worse. But opinions are mixed about whether any signs of disorder have already begun.
Mya Bee, 34, a filmmaker from a Brooklyn neighborhood once ravaged by crime, said that while it was still too early to gauge the full impact of the economic downturn, she had begun to notice some troubling trends. People seem less confident, she said. Some were selling personal belongings. One friend told her he had pulled his money out of the bank.
''When you can't use your credit cards, it will get worse,'' said Ms. Bee, a resident of Bedford-Stuyvesant. ''I know when people are really, really feeling it, it's going to get bad. When that happens, all hell will break loose. People will resort to their old methods of making money, whether it's robbing or stealing or hustling.''
Mr. Kelly suggested that it remained to be seen whether such a thing would happen.
Asked if Mayor Bloomberg had spoken with him about staying on for the mayor's potential third term, Mr. Kelly declined to answer, saying: ''Understandably, I really would not want to discuss my conversations with the mayor. Those discussions would be in confidence.''
Pressed, however, on whether he would consider serving another four years as police commissioner, he said it was ''a discussion for myself and the mayor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEVEL SAMUELS: Barber in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn: ''Right now, things are rough. Anything could happen.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PAT CIPOLLONE: Pizza manager in Tottenville, Staten Island: ''It's always quiet around here. We don't see or hear anything.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Lisa Walters, at a florist's shop on Staten Island, said of crime and the economy: ''I really haven't noticed. I can understand that there could be a relationship.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mya Bee, a filmmaker who lives in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, said, ''I know when people are really, really feeling it, it's going to get bad.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A31) CHARTS: Crime Correlations?: The debate continues over the connection between crime, the economy and policing. Here is how crime rates, unemployment and the size of the police force have varied in New York City over three decades.: Violent crimes per 100,000
Unemployment rate
Police officers per 100,000 population (Sources: F.B.I.
N.Y.P.D.
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(A31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RECESSION (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); TRENDS (74%); PROPERTY CRIMES (72%); HISTORY (71%); SOCIOLOGY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



402 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1937 words

HEADLINE: As Fears Ease, Baghdad Sees Walls Tumble

BYLINE: By STEPHEN FARRELL, ALISSA J. RUBIN, SAM DAGHER and ERICA GOODE; Sam Dagher and Anwar J. Ali contributed reporting.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Alissa J. Rubin, Stephen Farrelland Erica Goode, and written by Ms. Rubin and Mr. Farrell.
BAGHDAD -- Market by market, square by square, the walls are beginning to come down. The miles of hulking blast walls, ugly but effective, were installed as a central feature of the surge of American troops to stop neighbors from killing one another.
''They protected against car bombs and drive-by attacks,'' said Adnan, 39, a vegetable seller in the once violent neighborhood of Dora, who argues that the walls now block the markets and the commerce that Baghdad needs to thrive. ''Now it is safe.''
The slow dismantling of the concrete walls is the most visible sign of a fundamental change here in the Iraqi capital. The American surge strategy, which increased the number of United States troops and contributed to stability here, is drawing to a close. And a transition is under way to the almost inevitable American drawdown in 2009. 
There are now more than 148,000 United States troops in Iraq, down from the peak of around 170,000 a year ago, and President Bush has accepted the military's recommendation to remove 8,000 more by February.
Iraqis are already taking on many of the tasks the Americans once performed, raising great hopes that the country will progress on its own but also deep fears of failure.
On Oct. 1, the Sunni-dominated Awakening movement, widely credited with helping restore order to neighborhoods that were among the most deadly, passed from the American to the Iraqi government payroll in Baghdad. There is deep mutual mistrust between the new employer and many of its new employees, many of whom are former insurgents.
Another element of the transition, which has attracted far less notice than the Awakening transfer, is the effort by the Iraqi Army to begin turning over neighborhoods to the paramilitary National Police. In the future, its officers, too, will leave and be replaced by regular police officers.
All three moves mark a transition to an era in which Iraq's Shiite-dominated government seeks more control over its own military and sway over America's.
''The Iraqi security forces are now able to protect Iraq,'' said Joaidi Nahim Mahmoud Arif, a National Police sergeant in Dora, in southern Baghdad. ''They will depend on themselves above all.''
In dozens of interviews across Baghdad, it is evident that while open hostilities have calmed, beneath the surface many Sunnis and Shiites continue to harbor deep mistrust.
If the changes work as hoped, it will be a huge step toward restoring normal life in Baghdad. Each move, however, has its pitfalls. Awakening members could return to insurgent activity. Bombers could take advantage of streets without walls. The National Police, long accused of being sectarian, could abuse its new positions.
American commanders concede the risks but contend that the changes are worthwhile, given the potential payoff.
''We've got to balance that: security with economic concerns,'' said Lt. Col. Tim Watson, commander of the Second Battalion, Fourth Infantry, attached to the First Brigade Combat Team, Fourth Infantry Division, for Baghdad.
But commanders acknowledged that the cost of failure would be high. Referring to the Awakening transfer, Colonel Watson's boss, Maj. Gen. Jeffery Hammond, said, ''If the project were to fail, these guys would be out on the street, angry.''
''Al Qaeda in Iraq will be recruiting them,'' he said.
Wariness as Walls Fall
Each slab is the shape of a tombstone and the height of a double-decker bus. Assembled on the streets of Baghdad, the walls stretched for miles and redefined the city's look and feel. As they are removed, the bullet-pocked slabs are stacked in large storage zones waiting to be used elsewhere or moved to a central depot.
The walls are not coming down in all, or even most, Baghdad districts. They still surround the Green Zone, the once notorious airport highway, government buildings, checkpoints and entire neighborhoods like the Sunni enclave of Adhamiya.
But they have already been dismantled in some parts of the city. At a recent ceremony during the closing days of Ramadan, Sunnis from the Fadhil District, east of the Tigris River, joined with Shiites from adjoining Abu Saifeen to celebrate the removal of sections of a 15-month-old American-built wall that had divided their neighborhoods.
A checkpoint operated by Awakening groups from both neighborhoods now stands in the gap.
Col. Craig Collier, commander of the Third Squadron, 89th Cavalry Regiment, Fourth Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division, said that in the past year, relations between Awakening groups in the two areas had ''gradually gotten better and better, until now, you're at the point where they've taken the wall down and the two sides get together a lot.''
He added, ''They've been playing soccer.''
A nearby square on Kifah Street was the scene of a huge car bomb that killed 140 people in April 2007. It serves as a bus terminal, where buses are still barricaded behind blast walls. A billboard depicts a collage of photos of drivers killed in the bombing. ''If you see my photo, say a prayer for me,'' reads the caption.
Here, opinion about the walls was divided. Haider Falah, an Awakening guard, shrugged off past clashes between those in Abu Saifeen and Fadhil.
''We are all Iraqis,'' he said.
But Alaa Hadi, 28, a watermelon seller, lost his brother in an earlier bombing that killed 137 people and destroyed much of the market. Fearing outsiders, he is against any walls coming down.
''Those who tell you they are not worried are lying, trust me,'' he said. ''Look around you. We do not know who at this very moment might be amongst us preparing to blow themselves up.''
Five miles south of Fadhil there is a blast-wall graveyard, for used barriers and ones that may never be put up. This is at Forward Operating Base Falcon, a United States military post near Dora, which was for years one of the city's most dangerous areas.
Mixed, but majority Sunni, it was prey to Sunni insurgents as well as Shiite militia death squads.
In 2007, the center of Dora was retaken only after heavy fighting by American units that fought their way, street by street, through extremist strongholds.
The gains were cemented by the walls and by an Awakening movement carefully nurtured by the Americans. Many residents hailed the walls as protection from death squads and insurgents. In the last 11 months, not a single American has been killed in the neighborhood.
But as the situation calmed, people began to perceive the walls as not only protecting local businesses. They limited business, too, by walling off shops and preventing traffic from moving from one neighborhood to another. People began to mutter of living in a ''sijen khabir,'' the Iraqi phrase for big prison.
''They besieged the area,'' said Adnan, the vegetable seller in Dora, who despite security improvements was too nervous to give his family name. ''There isn't much activity, and the market closes early. If you move the blast walls, everything will be O.K.''
The wall separating the market from the highway is not yet down, but its replacement is already in place. A hybrid construction that is half wall and half railing, it is much lower than the towering blast wall and is designed to allow motorists and pedestrians to see the shops on the other side and to approach much closer, for good or ill.
Building on Shaky Trust
There is one overriding issue when it comes to the Awakening Councils, the groups of mainly Sunni former gunmen who were hired by the Americans to stop attacking them: Will they return to violence?
Many were supporters of the Sunni insurgency, either for money or ideology, and many still feel aggrieved at the new order, in which Sunnis are no longer in charge.
The Americans won over the Sunnis by overlooking their crimes, paying them and rewarding their leaders with extra money. They held out the prospect that Awakening members would eventually get jobs in the Iraqi Army or the police. Those who did not would get civilian jobs, and the government would not conduct wholesale detentions.
But as the early-October transfer approached, it became clear that the Iraqi government would refuse to accept most Awakening members into the security forces, and that most of the civilian jobs simply did not exist. Furthermore, the Awakening leaders, some of whom had been paid thousands of dollars by the Americans, would get no more than the rank and file under the Iraqis. The Americans now say they will try to make up the difference for some of them.
The Awakening members' fears have still not been allayed.
''Allah. Homeland. Salary,'' reads one piece of protest graffiti painted near an Awakening checkpoint in Dora market, adapting the motto of a feared paramilitary unit during Saddam Hussein's era.
Pointing to the words, Sgt. Alaa al-Janabi, 30, who works with the Dora Awakening, said, ''This is our slogan.''
He continued: ''What we are being paid now is not enough. It's nothing. We have to buy gas for our cars, fuel for our generators. I have four kids; they don't have shoes.''
''We're not going to fight again,'' he said, but then paused. ''Unless they make us.''
Colonel Watson, the American commander in Dora, acknowledged that there was some risk of Awakening members returning to the insurgency or turning to criminal activity. But he said that every Awakening member's fingerprints and retinal scans were on file, and his address and family were known both to the Americans and the Iraqi government.
''They are already identified by us and the National Police,'' Colonel Watson said. ''So that if they have any thought of going back to the insurgency it's pretty difficult for them.''
Despite the Awakening's wariness of its new masters, the government has come a long way in the last year.
''The suspicion and worry is much, much less,'' said Safa Hussein al-Shekh, deputy national security adviser.
He accepts that many Awakening members have genuinely served the country and concedes that the government's program may fall short in some areas. The lack of bonus pay for leaders is one problem he identifies. Another is anger when some areas get more security jobs than others. His final concern is that the government just does not have enough civilian jobs to offer.
''The economic wheel has not turned at enough of a speed to absorb this number of unemployed people, and it needs some time, maybe two years or a year and a half,'' Mr. Shekh said.
But some government leaders still harbor grave doubts about letting former insurgents back into the fold. Any overture to them comes with warnings of dire consequences if the Awakening is not completely loyal.
''Anybody who comes to us, if they quit the insurgent approach we will welcome them with open arms,'' said a Shiite member of Parliament, Hadi al-Ameri, who also leads the Badr Organization, a onetime paramilitary Shiite force trained in Iran and feared by Sunnis.
''But anybody who chooses a road that is not with the Iraqi government, death will be his fate,'' Mr. Ameri said.
His antipathy is mirrored at the highest level of the Awakening. Many of its leaders, Sunni former Baathists, remain fiercely suspicious of the Shiite-majority government and particularly the police.
''In fact, there is no trust between us and the National Police,'' said Sami Hassan Saleh al-Jubori, a leader of the Awakening Council in Dora and a former general in Saddam Hussein's military.
He offered his own warning to the government. ''If the Awakening is let go, Dora will go back to worse than it was before,'' he said. ''I hope you don't consider this a threat.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As violence has dropped in parts of Baghdad like Daghil, blast walls put up by Americans have become a hindrance to commerce. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX BECHERER/POLARIS, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Families who had left the Dora neighborhood of Baghdad for safer areas lined up last month to return home. Hostilities have calmed, though mistrust remains.
 Walls went up in the Dora neighborhood of Baghdad in 2007, when violence was at its worst. Now they are coming down.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX BECHERER/POLARIS, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14) MAP: Dora used to be one of the capital's least safe areas. Map details Baghdad, Iraq. (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (85%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); ARMIES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



403 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths FLEISSIG, MORRIS B.

 BODY:
 FLEISSIG--Morris B. , at 93. National leader in public housing, urban renewal and city planning. Vice President of Candeub, Fleissig & Associates, the country's largest planning firm in the 1960s. Predeceased by loving wife, Sylvia. Beloved father of Rosalie Friend, Susan Weltman, and Edythe Sparkman, father-in-law of Alan Friend and Steven Jervis, grandfather of Eric Weltman, Josh Sparkman and Julia Friend, greatgrandfather of Zachary Bennett Weltman. A native of the Lower East Side, he was known for love of family and friends and his great concern for social justice. Contributions in his name are welcome to the Center for an Urban Future (www.nycfuture.org) or Jews for Racial and Economic Justice (www.jfrej.org). Services Sunday, October 12, 9:30am, Plaza Jewish Chapel, 90th Street and Amsterdam. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (88%); CITIES (88%); GRANDPARENTS (87%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (86%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



404 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Weigh Plan For Stimulus

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve and Congress are pushing out close to $1 trillion to repair the nation's financial system and to encourage lending. But that is not enough to revive the economy. Spending has to resume.
Consumers, however, have cut back sharply on their spending, in what will be the first quarterly decline in 17 years when the government tally is in for the third quarter.
Business, in response, is shrinking its outlays for equipment, supplies and personnel. And now dozens of state and city governments, their tax revenue falling short of expectations, are engaged in yet another round of cost-cutting. 
To offset this shrinkage, and head off a severe recession, the Democratic leadership in Congress is ''seriously considering'' a large fiscal stimulus proposal, which would send a significant amount of money to states and cities.
''We have to prop up consumption,'' Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said in an interview in which he revealed some of the details the party leadership is discussing.
The new proposal would be far greater than the $60 billion stimulus package that the House passed in late September, Mr. Frank said.
The Senate has not acted on the earlier bill, which was dwarfed in attention and scope by the sums being pledged to Wall Street companies and commercial banks.
Congress, now in recess, would be asked to return after the November election to act on the proposal in a lame-duck session.
This new effort would be more diverse than the stimulus that Congress, with bipartisan support, approved early this year and President Bush signed. That package, at a cost of $107 billion, mostly went to low- and moderate-income families, in the form of checks in the spring and early summer. Those checks lifted spending for a while, many economists concluded, and helped compensate consumers as gasoline prices surged. But an unknown amount was used to pay down debt or buy imports. Neither lifts output in this country.
Republicans embraced the last stimulus plan, and they might very well embrace another. But their long-held position has been that the best way to give the economy a boost is through tax cuts at the corporate and individual level. They also express concerns that some money funneled to the states would be spent inefficiently, for example on programs that would generate few jobs.
The Democratic proposal would provide tax relief in some form for families, the goal being to step up their spending, as the rebates were intended to do earlier this year. In addition, unemployment insurance benefits would be extended beyond 39 weeks and the food stamp program would expand. Both would channel money to people who would probably spend every penny to meet their needs. But the biggest chunk, perhaps as much as $150 billion, would go to states and cities to sustain their everyday spending.
The rationale for another stimulus package, particularly one that helps the states and cities, is compelling for many economists. The nearly $1 trillion that Congress and the Federal Reserve are making available to the financial system is intended to make credit more available. That props up the supply side.
But to make the economy grow, or stop contracting, demand is required. Consumers, businesses and governments need confidence to spend their own incomes or tap credit from a repaired financial system. In the case of states and cities whose revenue is shrinking, bigger federal subsidies would ease the need to cut so many jobs and services to balance their budgets.
''That is the whole rationale for giving money to the states and cities,'' said Alan S. Blinder, a Princeton University economist who served in the Clinton administration and also as vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. ''Deciding not to cut spending is the functional equivalent of spending more. Either one leads to more spending than you otherwise would have.''
State and local spending accounts for 12 percent of nation's economic activity. There is a widespread contraction in their spending now because of lower revenue and laws that require them to balance their budgets.
''We know there are at least 15 states that have fallen out of balance since early summer,'' said Iris J. Lav, deputy director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. ''We don't have estimates of the gaps for all of them. Only 11 estimated the amount, but their shortfall alone totaled $5.9 billion. That is on top of the $48 billion in gaps that all 50 states were forced to close to balance their budgets for the fiscal year that began in most cases on July 1.''
Indianapolis, to take just one of hundreds of examples, reduced to 12 from 24 the number of deputy chiefs and assistant chiefs in its police command staff. ''It was kind of bloated anyway,'' said Marcus Barlow, a spokesman for Mayor Greg Ballard.
In Phoenix, every department of the city government has been asked to propose a 30 percent spending reduction, on top of the 12.5 percent cut that was effective on July 1. If tax revenue does not revive and there is no lifeline from Washington, those reductions or some portion of them will go into effect by early next year, said Robert Wingenroth, the Phoenix finance director.
''Our city government is mostly people, so we would have to reduce people,'' he said.
Under the stimulus package that the Congressional Democratic leadership is considering, the mechanism for funneling money to the states and cities would be an increase in federal funding of state Medicaid programs. Those states hardest hit economically would receive more proportionally than those relatively better off.
Whatever the amounts, the federal subsidies would free up money the states currently must put into Medicaid. States might divert that money to cities, for example, to pay teachers and vendors, or it might be used to quickly resume public works projects shut down for lack of funding.
Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic presidential candidate, now supports a stimulus plan similar to the one the Congressional Democratic leadership is seriously considering. ''Mr. Obama has been calling for six months for a demand-side fiscal stimulus,'' said Jason Furman, the candidate's economic policy director.
Senator John McCain, the Republican candidate, is less enthusiastic. His campaign prefers, as a stimulus, making President Bush's tax cuts permanent and lowering corporate tax rates. But the McCain camp does not reject out of hand the Democratic proposal now taking shape.
''Nothing is off the table,'' said Mark Zandi, a McCain economic adviser and the chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''That includes all the various stimulus tools that might be used, given the severity of the crisis.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''We have to prop up consumption,'' said Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL GREENE/THE BOSTON GLOBE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); FAMILY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); POLITICS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); CITIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); FOOD STAMPS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



405 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Suggests He May Not Need Loan From Treasury Dept.

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO 

 BODY:
A week after warning the Treasury Department that California might need an emergency loan of up to $7 billion, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Thursday sent another, more upbeat note expressing a ''cautiously optimistic'' belief that the state could find the money it needed in the credit markets. 
 In a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., Mr. Schwarzenegger, who presides over the country's most populous state and one of the world's biggest economies, struck a far less urgent tone as California prepared to give Wall Street another try.
 The governor did not raise again the possibility of assistance from the federal government. Instead, he noted the passage of the economic recovery plan and the successful borrowing by Massachusetts this week from the bond market, which had locked up and left governments anxious about financing projects and operating expenses.
 ''Although California feels the enormous effects of our current economic crisis, I am optimistic these efforts to improve liquidity are moving the country toward more stable economic footing,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger wrote, even as the stock market once again dropped sharply.
 The letter comes as Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, begins appearing in radio advertisements intended to drum up interest in California bonds. The state plans to return next week to the bond market, which administration officials call their best hope, to seek $4 billion in normally routine short-term loans. It may seek more at a later date.
 Analysts agreed the bond sales to Massachusetts and a couple of other states were encouraging, and said the governor had good reason for a more optimistic assessment as he entered the market seeking investors. Moreover, a loan from the Treasury would face difficulties. Aside from legal entanglements, assistance from the department could lead a bevy of state and local governments, also suffering financially, to ask for loans, too.
 ''The line would be out the door,'' said Matt Fabian, managing director of Municipal Market Advisors, an independent consultant firm on the municipal bond market.
 ''There is that moral hazard issue,'' Mr. Fabian said, ''and it also would not do much for the long-term confidence in the market. The Treasury is not going to buy all those loans.''
 Still, Treasury officials are discussing the issue with California and other states.
 At the same time, Mr. Schwarzenegger and legislative leaders, who met on Wednesday, are making an effort to present a unified message that California is cleaning up its fiscal mess.
 Aside from the possible shortage of cash the state is facing to pay its bills later this month, the newly adopted $103.4 billion state budget, enacted after a protracted fight over closing a $15 billion deficit that left the plan 85 days overdue, is coming up a few billion dollars short in revenue. That has raised the prospect that Mr. Schwarzenegger and the Legislature will tackle it anew.
 California's fiscal woes reflect deepening problems in more than a dozen states, some of them among the largest, which are finding that the distressed economy has dampened revenue.
 On Thursday, Gov. Tim Kaine of Virginia announced a plan to lay off 570 state workers, among other steps, to cope with revenue shortages this fiscal year and next. Mr. Kaine, a Democrat, has also said he will reduce spending at the executive mansion, including cutting the grocery bill, taking fewer trips and cleaning the drapes less often.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger will turn to the credit markets to help with state finances. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); RADIO ADVERTISING (51%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



406 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: From Wall Street to Double-Parking, Always a Reason to Atone

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Thursday may have been the Day of Atonement for Jews, but that doesn't mean everyone else was off the hook. Regardless of religion or ethnicity, plenty of New Yorkers had reason to atone for wrongs committed, if not against God, then certainly against their fellow citizens.
 No lineup of sinners could possibly be complete. For many New Yorkers, a natural candidate would be any city inspector who failed to make sure that those killer construction cranes were sound. Consolidated Edison would land on some lists, especially in a year when it announced a $5.5 million pay package for its chief executive mere weeks after winning the largest one-time increase in its bills for electric service. 
 But most New Yorkers probably feel in their gut that if any group should be down on both knees begging forgiveness, it's the megabonus Wall Street crowd.
 If the city is forced to shrink the number of police officers or to stint on helping the poor or to stop performing maintenance on decrepit water mains, Michael R. Bloomberg will inevitably be cast as Mayor Culpa. But it is the recklessness of his old Wall Street buddies that went far to create this fiscal tumult, which has poked enormous holes in the municipal budget, which has led to the prospect of severe belt-tightening, which has fed the sharp debate over political term limits, which has more New Yorkers snapping at one another than is absolutely necessary, which has...well, you can extend this for as long as you wish.
 People were hardly encouraged to learn the other day about the latest oink from a New York-based company, American International Group. A House inquiry discovered that one week after A.I.G. was thrown an $85 billion life preserver by the government -- in other words, by you and your tax dollars -- its life insurance subsidiary plunked down $442,000 on a California resort retreat for some of its sales agents. The tab included $150,000 for food, $23,000 in spa charges, $10,000 in bar bills and $7,000 in greens fees.
 How's that for doing penance after having brought the world economy to the cliff's edge? It's enough to make one pine for the more innocent days of the $6,000 shower curtain and $15,000 umbrella stand for L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former Tyco tycoon and present jailbird.
 The Vatican sought to address outrages of this sort when, a few weeks before Pope Benedict XVI journeyed to New York in April, it issued an updated version of what are usually described as the seven deadly sins. On the new list was the accumulation of excessive wealth.
 Accumulation of excessive wealth, with its boom-or-bust component, all but defines this city. Who's to say what it augurs for New Yorkers' mortal souls? But bust times are here and are putting the municipal treasury, and thus New Yorkers' temporal well-being, in grave peril.
 The concept of sin extends beyond unbridled greed. It can encompass routine interactions in this crowded, fast-paced city, where people must try hard not to get in one another's way or on one another's nerves. Social harmony requires such efforts. Transgressions cause real harm.
 One small but telling example involved a colleague whose parked car was recently boxed in for an hour in Morningside Heights by another car that was double-parked. It is a long-established and essential understanding in New York that double-parkers must leave notes on their windshields telling how they can be contacted. The tradition, however, is often honored these days in the breach. This double-parked car had no such note.
 When the driver finally returned, and her transgression was pointed out to her, she acted as if she were the wronged party. ''Everybody does it,'' she said.
 As far as she was concerned, no atonement was required. Sin, New York-style, had been redefined.
 Was this episode a huge deal? Not at all. But a part of the New York social compact had been torn.
 Another common example of fraying is the way some drivers turn sharply into crosswalks, paying no mind to pedestrians who are already there. It is a singularly mindless, not to mention dangerous, act.
 If you think this falls short of qualifying as a sin, you may get an argument from the Vatican. Last year, it issued a list of guidelines that some have called a Ten Commandments for drivers. The Fifth Commandment says that a car shall not be ''an expression of power and domination.'' Three other commandments tell drivers to be courteous and prudent, to protect the more vulnerable party and to feel responsible for others.
 You can see how those principles are violated on city streets. If all the sinners were compelled to repent, every day would have to be proclaimed a day of atonement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); YOM KIPPUR (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MAYORS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TERM LIMITS (66%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); ED (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (77%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



407 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Council Candidates Are Left in Limbo Over Term Limits

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
For more than a year, Jo Anne Simon, a lawyer in Downtown Brooklyn, has been busy planning her campaign to represent a City Council district that stretches from Park Slope to Williamsburg and Greenpoint. She has started a Web site and has held a number of fund-raising events, which have taken in more than $50,000. 
 But with the current turbulence over the possible extension of the city's term limit laws, Ms. Simon says she is frustrated and perturbed by the turn of events. 
 With Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposal to ask the City Council to extend term limits by another four years, there are dozens of newcomers to the city's political landscape who, like Ms. Simon, are confused and unclear about what their prospects are. 
 ''It's certainly been unsettling,'' said Ms. Simon, a Democratic Party district leader. ''It's been something of a roller-coaster ride. And a lot of candidates who, like me, feel kind of sucker-punched by this. There are a lot of people who have worked to build a campaign. They have done all the things they were supposed to do. And now everything seems to be off the table.''
 For the last few weeks, much of the discussion surrounding the extension of term limits has centered on Mr. Bloomberg's desire for a third term. And many of the proponents of changing the law that limits city officials to two four-year terms have framed it around their view of how the city might benefit by Mr. Bloomberg's continued stewardship.
 But going down the city's political chain, there are dozens of candidates like Ms. Simon who feel that the campaigns they have worked to build are now in limbo.
 For months, even years, they have gone through the painstaking duties of registering and following the guidelines of the New York City Campaign Finance Board, which calls for meticulous record-keeping. They have reordered the routine of their lives for fund-raising events and campaign forums.
 They now face an uncertain political landscape.
 Ms. Simon had planned to run for an open seat, since the incumbent, Councilman David Yassky, is barred from running for re-election under the current law and had been planning to run for city comptroller. But Mr. Yassky said he would run for comptroller only if the incumbent, William C. Thompson Jr. (who is also a candidate for mayor), did not run for comptroller again.
 ''There is a lot that's not clear right now,'' Ms. Simon said. 
 A few candidates, however, said that they supported four more years of a Bloomberg administration and that they would be happy to wait until 2013. 
 ''My feeling is that, when we're in a time of economic crisis, that it's in the city's best interest to extend term limits,'' said David G. Greenfield, a candidate for the City Council seat now represented by Simcha Felder, a Brooklyn Democrat in Borough Park.
 Mr. Greenfield, who is the executive director of the Sephardic Community Federation, is also the top fund-raiser among City Council candidates, having amassed $177,000 in campaign contributions. But he said he would not mind supporting Mr. Felder for re-election.
 ''The reality is that both the mayor and City Council have spent the last seven years in a position where they have a better understanding of the city's economy than anyone else,'' he said. ''And I think Simcha Felder has done a good job and I would be happy to support him again. I'm more than happy to do my part and wait it out for another few years.''
 Mr. Greenfield's view about delaying his candidacy is rare. Most Council candidates say they are frustrated by the prospect of an extension of term limits. And many contend that running against incumbents -- who have name recognition, free mailings and fund-raising advantages -- would be too hard. 
 ''I'm not sure that it's a viable campaign for me if there is no vacant seat,'' said Mark H. Pollard, a lawyer who is a candidate for the City Council seat held by Albert Vann in Brooklyn.
 ''It's almost impossible to beat an incumbent,'' Mr. Pollard said. ''And it's not something I'm sure I would want to do. I used to be Al Vann's counsel.''
 Still, some candidates say they will run even if the City Council decides to alter the term limits law, which was approved in two public referendums.
 ''There is nothing on the face of this earth that would cause me to drop out,'' said Saquan Jones, an auditor at Columbia University who is also running for the Council seat represented by Mr. Vann in the district anchored in Bedford-Stuyvesant. 
 ''Sure, it's more challenging to run against an incumbent,'' Mr. Jones said. ''But it's also more stimulating. I think that only the people whose hearts are committed to running will keep going forward.'' 
 Similarly, Ydanis Rodriguez, a teacher and grass-roots organizer, said he would continue with his plans to run for the City Council seat in the district in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, even if the incumbent, Miguel Martinez, ran for re-election.
 ''I'm not going to change my plans,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''But I find this entire situation to be very frustrating. It's frustrating for me as a candidate, but it's even more frustrating for me as a social studies teacher.''
 Mr. Rodriguez, who teaches in a high school in Washington Heights, said: ''It's painful for me to tell my students about democracy and that the will of the people is the foundation of this country. And then, I have to watch a city where billionaires like Bloomberg get to decide what happens.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ydanis Rodriguez, left, one of many City Council candidates who has been frustrated by the proposed term limit extension, with German Ruiz, a community activist, in Washington Heights. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN COHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



408 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Moment Of Truth

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Last month, when the U.S. Treasury Department allowed Lehman Brothers to fail, I wrote that Henry Paulson, the Treasury secretary, was playing financial Russian roulette. Sure enough, there was a bullet in that chamber: Lehman's failure caused the world financial crisis, already severe, to get much, much worse.
 The consequences of Lehman's fall were apparent within days, yet key policy players have largely wasted the past four weeks. Now they've reached a moment of truth: They'd better do something soon -- in fact, they'd better announce a coordinated rescue plan this weekend -- or the world economy may well experience its worst slump since the Great Depression. 
 Let's talk about where we are right now.
 The current crisis started with a burst housing bubble, which led to widespread mortgage defaults, and hence to large losses at many financial institutions. That initial shock was compounded by secondary effects, as lack of capital forced banks to pull back, leading to further declines in the prices of assets, leading to more losses, and so on -- a vicious circle of ''deleveraging.'' Pervasive loss of trust in banks, including on the part of other banks, reinforced the vicious circle.
 The downward spiral accelerated post-Lehman. Money markets, already troubled, effectively shut down -- one line currently making the rounds is that the only things anyone wants to buy right now are Treasury bills and bottled water. 
 The response to this downward spiral on the part of the world's two great monetary powers -- the United States, on one side, and the 15 nations that use the euro, on the other -- has been woefully inadequate.
 Europe, lacking a common government, has literally been unable to get its act together; each country has been making up its own policy, with little coordination, and proposals for a unified response have gone nowhere.
 The United States should have been in a much stronger position. And when Mr. Paulson announced his plan for a huge bailout, there was a temporary surge of optimism. But it soon became clear that the plan suffered from a fatal lack of intellectual clarity. Mr. Paulson proposed buying $700 billion worth of ''troubled assets'' -- toxic mortgage-related securities -- from banks, but he was never able to explain why this would resolve the crisis.
 What he should have proposed instead, many economists agree, was direct injection of capital into financial firms: The U.S. government would provide financial institutions with the capital they need to do business, thereby halting the downward spiral, in return for partial ownership. When Congress modified the Paulson plan, it introduced provisions that made such a capital injection possible, but not mandatory. And until two days ago, Mr. Paulson remained resolutely opposed to doing the right thing.
 But on Wednesday the British government, showing the kind of clear thinking that has been all too scarce on this side of the pond, announced a plan to provide banks with $:50 billion in new capital -- the equivalent, relative to the size of the economy, of a $500 billion program here -- together with extensive guarantees for financial transactions between banks. And U.S. Treasury officials now say that they plan to do something similar, using the authority they didn't want but Congress gave them anyway.
 The question now is whether these moves are too little, too late. I don't think so, but it will be very alarming if this weekend rolls by without a credible announcement of a new financial rescue plan, involving not just the United States but all the major players.
 Why do we need international cooperation? Because we have a globalized financial system in which a crisis that began with a bubble in Florida condos and California McMansions has caused monetary catastrophe in Iceland. We're all in this together, and need a shared solution. 
 Why this weekend? Because there happen to be two big meetings taking place in Washington: a meeting of top financial officials from the major advanced nations on Friday, then the annual International Monetary Fund/World Bank meeting Saturday and Sunday. If these meetings end without at least an agreement in principle on a global rescue plan -- if everyone goes home with nothing more than vague assertions that they intend to stay on top of the situation -- a golden opportunity will have been missed, and the downward spiral could easily get even worse.
 What should be done? The United States and Europe should just say ''Yes, prime minister.'' The British plan isn't perfect, but there's widespread agreement among economists that it offers by far the best available template for a broader rescue effort.
 And the time to act is now. You may think that things can't get any worse -- but they can, and if nothing is done in the next few days, they will. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); BOTTLED WATER (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



409 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHECK POINT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: 2 Endorsements of Nuclear Power, but Sharp Differences on Details

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
Contrary to what Democrats may think, there is more to John McCain's energy program than ''drill, baby, drill.'' And contrary to what Mr. McCain has been saying on the campaign trail, where he proposes the construction of 45 nuclear plants by 2030, Barack Obama does not ''oppose the use of nuclear power.''
 Both men endorse nuclear energy, although to differing degrees, as part of their strategy to wean the United States from its dependence on foreign oil. 
 While Mr. McCain includes the building of nuclear reactors among his preferred options to obtain more energy, Mr. Obama assigns a higher priority to developing renewable sources like solar, wind and bio-fuels and increasing efficiency in the consumption of existing sources. 
 ''I think that nuclear power should be in the mix when it comes to energy,'' Mr. Obama said in June in Jacksonville, Fla., but added, ''I don't think it's our optimal energy source, because we haven't figured out how to store the waste safely or recycle the waste.''
 Mr. McCain says on his campaign Web site that ''nuclear power is a proven, zero-emission source of energy, and it is time we recommit'' to expanding its use. 
 He also argues that it is ''critical that the U.S. be able to build the components for these plants and reactors within our own country so that we are not dependent on foreign suppliers with long wait times.'' 
 Because nuclear energy is virtually carbon neutral, some environmentalists who opposed its use now are more open to it.
 Elgie Holstein, an adviser to Mr. Obama on energy issues, accused the McCain campaign of misrepresenting Mr. Obama's position on nuclear power. 
 ''Some specific proposals that Senator McCain has made are troubling,'' Mr. Holstein said, because of the problems of storage and reprocessing, and the issue of non-proliferation of nuclear fuel.
 ''Senator Obama definitely understands that nuclear power plays a major role in our electricity mix and will continue to do so into the foreseeable future,'' Mr. Holstein, a former Energy Department official said. ''He doesn't favor shutting down power plants and hasn't come out against extending their licenses, so it is simply incorrect to say he is anti-nuclear-power.''
 It is probably safe to say that Democrats as a group are less enthusiastic than Republicans about nuclear energy. The 57-page platform adopted at the Democrats' convention in Denver in August does not mention nuclear power. 
 Mr. Obama is from Illinois, which has more nuclear reactors than any other state, and during the Democratic primary season drew fire from rivals for donations he had received from the company that operates those reactors. In his acceptance speech in Denver, Mr. Obama vowed that as president he would ''find ways to safely harness nuclear power.'' 
 Mr. McCain restated his support for nuclear power in the first two presidential debates, and criticized Mr. Obama. Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for the McCain campaign, did not respond to phone calls and e-mail messages over a one-month period requesting an interview with one of Mr. McCain's energy advisers to elaborate on Mr. McCain's stance. 
 On the campaign trail, Mr. McCain has repeatedly cited France as a model for the development of nuclear power in the United States. In France, 59 nuclear power plants generate nearly 80 percent of the country's electricity, helping to reduce carbon emissions and producing a surplus that has made France one of the largest net electricity exporters in the world.
 In France, the government controls both the construction of nuclear power plants and the generation and distribution of electricity. 
 ''Putting aside the question of whether it is advisable to have an electricity system dominated by one mode of generation, it is a little odd for him to point to the heavily subsidized French case and say we should be emulating it,'' Edwin Lyman, a nuclear expert at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said of Mr. McCain. ''It would take a massive shift in government policy to proceed in the French direction, and it would be antithetical to the United States and how it operates, since it would be a quasi-socialist system.'' 
 In campaign speeches, Mr. McCain also estimates that his program to build nuclear reactors would ''provide 700,000 jobs for American workers.'' 
 Some nuclear power experts offer more modest figures, noting that much of the heavy foundry work and other tasks would have to be done overseas, at least in the initial phase. 
 But Mr. McCain has said he wants such work to be done within the United States, even though he noted in July in Missouri that ''our manufacturing base to even construct these plants is almost gone,'' and added, ''We will need to recover all the knowledge and skills that have been lost over three stagnant decades in a highly technical field.'' 
 Patrick Moore, a founder of Greenpeace and the co-chairman of the Clean and Safe Energy Coalition, a pro-nuclear group, estimated that each reactor would cost up to $8 billion and would generate 3,000 to 4,000 jobs during the construction phase and up to 800 permanent jobs once in operation. 
 Asked to provide a ballpark figure on employment if all 45 reactors were to be built, Mr. Moore, responded, ''225,000 good union jobs that you can support a family on.''
 Trade groups like the Nuclear Energy Institute favor plans similar to Mr. McCain's proposal to build 45 nuclear reactors, but some energy experts say that would require billions of dollars in new subsidies and be an inefficient use of taxpayers' money, no matter how many jobs were generated. 
 Those experts seem to prefer Mr. Obama's promise to invest $150 billion in clean-energy projects over 10 years, the bulk of which would probably be directed toward non-nuclear energy sources. 
 ''The two big hurdles to the construction of nuclear plants in the United States are that they are not economically competitive and cannot be privately financed, so the real issue McCain should be addressing is how he proposes to pay for them,'' said Tom Cochran, a physicist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. ''You're simply penalizing the programs and technology that include improvements in energy efficiency and can provide climate mitigation more quickly, cheaply and safely.'' 
 Mr. McCain has sought to defuse concerns about the safety of reactors by noting his own service aboard the first nuclear powered aircraft carrier, the Enterprise. During the more than 50 years that the United States Navy has deployed nuclear vessels, ''there has never been an accident,'' he said recently in a campaign swing through Florida. 
 Strictly speaking, that statement is not correct. While it is true there has never been a known fatal accident involving nuclear material aboard a naval vessel, vessels have suffered blowback from radioactive waste or leaked radioactive coolant water in domestic waters and foreign ports, which generated complaints from governments in Japan and Singapore.
 In large part because of safety concerns, the two candidates disagree on whether the federal government should build a nuclear storage facility at Yucca Mountain, Nev., about 90 miles north of Las Vegas. 
 Mr. McCain favors the proposal. Mr. Obama opposes it, arguing that a better short-term solution is to continue to store nuclear waste at the reactors that produce it ''until we find a safe, long-term disposal solution that is based on sound science.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain, with Representative Fred Upton, left, and Senator Lindsey Graham at a Michigan nuclear plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Senator Barack Obama viewing solar panels at the Springs Preserve in Las Vegas, part of its vision for a sustainable future. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA RAUCH/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); BIOMASS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); BIOFUELS (74%); WIND POWER PLANTS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (65%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); FRED UPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (77%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



410 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: NATIONS WEIGHING GLOBAL APPROACH AS CHAOS SPREADS

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The United States and Britain appear to be converging on a similar blueprint for stemming the financial chaos sweeping the world, one day before a crucial meeting of leaders begins in Washington that the White House hopes will result in a more coordinated response.
 The British and American plans, though far from identical, have two common elements according to officials: injection of government money into banks in return for ownership stakes and guarantees of repayment for various types of loans.
 Both remedies will be center stage on Saturday, when President Bush meets with finance ministers from the world's richest countries at an unusual White House meeting to swap ideas.
 Mr. Bush's invitation to finance ministers from Britain, Italy, Germany, France, Canada and Japan came on a day of phone calls and letters between European leaders and with Washington. 
 Adding to the urgency, the Japanese stock market plunged more than 10 percent Friday morning, after having dropped 9 percent on Wednesday.
 Government officials struggled to fashion a coordinated response to the ailing global banking system before going to Washington for annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.
 ''As this thing has spread, the opportunities for cooperation have risen,'' David H. McCormick, the under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, said. ''We need to promote and highlight these common areas.''
 With credit markets still frozen and stock markets around the world in a deep swoon, there is a growing consensus that the crisis is now so fast-moving and harmful to the global economy that it demands an unprecedented degree of worldwide coordination.
 The Treasury's openness to direct infusions of cash is a remarkable change in tone from a few weeks ago, when the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, discouraged such actions in testimony before Congress. ''Putting capital in institutions is about failure,'' Mr. Paulson declared on Sept. 23. ''This is about success.''
 Treasury officials, however, said the emphasis changed in the last week, largely because stock markets kept spiraling down. 
 Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain made the case, in a letter to President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, for another option gaining favor among economists -- guaranteeing short- and medium-term loans between banks. By persuading banks to resume lending to each other, the plan aims to shake loose the paralyzed credit market. ''This is an area where a concerted international approach could have a very powerful effect,'' Mr. Brown said Thursday in the two-page letter.
 Administration officials are discussing aspects of the British proposal but said different economies have different rules that complicate a single joint action. 
 One senior administration official argued that expecting an agreement on proposals like Mr. Brown's would be ''irrationally raising expectations.''
 Still, recapitalizing the banks and jump-starting their lending are at the top of the list of remedies that many economists are now suggesting. By acting in concert, countries can maximize the punch of their actions, these experts said, while avoiding distortions that occur when countries go different ways.
 ''At a minimum, you want to curtail damage,'' said Carmen M. Reinhart, a professor of economics at the University of Maryland. ''You don't want the beggar-thy-neighbor policies that characterized the Great Depression.''
 ''At a maximum,'' she continued, ''you can get general principles -- the need for a swift recapitalization of the banks, the need for liquidity -- so we don't get an even bigger credit crunch.''
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned countries against taking actions that could destabilize the financial systems of their neighbors. Unilateral acts, he said, ''have to be avoided, if not condemned.''
 Mr. Strauss-Kahn announced that the fund had activated an emergency financing mechanism, which would allow it to lend money more quickly to countries facing financial problems, as a result of the crisis.
 The White House confirmed that the Treasury Department was considering taking ownership positions in banks as part of its $700 billion rescue package. But officials said the idea was less developed than the plan to buy distressed assets from banks through ''reverse auctions.''
 The goal, Treasury officials said, is a plan that would be broadly available to all banks, rather than through specific rescue packages negotiated on a case-by-case basis. That makes it likely that the government could afford to take only a small stake in any single institution.
 The direct injections of cash would be for comparatively healthy banks. If a bank is failing and needs to be rescued or shut down, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would handle it through its own procedures.
 The Treasury proposal to recapitalize banks stems from the realization that as the stock market keeps tumbling, and as mortgage-related securities on banks' balance sheets also plummet, it has become harder for banks to raise fresh capital from investors.
 The government concluded it would be able to deliver capital faster and with greater assurance if it did so directly.
 The switch may also reflect growing doubts about the Treasury's plan to purchase mortgage-related assets. Through reverse auctions, aspiring sellers of the hard-to-sell securities would compete to offer the securities to the government. The auctions are supposed to jump-start the market for these securities and allow investors to value them on balance sheets. Once banks' balance sheets were cleansed of toxic assets, the theory went, they would be able to tap fresh capital.
 But the concept is untested, experts said, and the deteriorating market conditions had further dimmed its prospects.
 ''I don't think the plan is getting off the ground,'' said Martin N. Baily, an economist at the Brookings Institution. ''I'm not sure you'll get price discovery, but even if you did, how many Warren Buffetts or Middle Eastern sheiks are out there who want to invest in banks?''
 Another advantage of the recapitalization plan is more subtle: the Treasury would get more bang for the buck. Because banks have debt-to-equity ratios of 10 to one or higher, a dollar spent buying an equity stake would support 10 times as many assets as a dollar spent buying up individual securities.
 Administration officials said the government could acquire stakes in the form of common stock, preferred shares paying a specific dividend or some other form of equity. But officials said the government's offer of additional capital should be made in a uniform way to all banks.
 It is far from clear that other countries will accept the need for wholesale recapitalization of the banks. Even if they did, neither the British nor the American plan would necessarily be a template.
 ''You have lots of people skinning the cat in lots of different ways,'' Mr. McCormick, the Treasury's point person in organizing the meetings of finance ministers, said in an interview. ''It's clear that one size does not fit all.''
 For their part, American officials questioned how the British government and the banks would value the capital injected into the banks, for purposes of taking equity stakes. They also said the proposal was vague about how the government would treat executive compensation.
 In the rescue law passed a week ago, Congress stipulated that the Treasury must strictly limit the pay of executives in banks to which it adds capital -- including provisions that ban golden parachutes and that direct the government to recover bonuses based on stated earnings that prove inaccurate.
 Britain's plan also hinged on the willingness of several of the largest banks -- Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays and HSBC Holdings, among them -- to sell preferred shares to the government. It is not clear, administration officials said, that the largest American banks would agree to this, particularly given the restrictions on executive pay.
 Another concern banks are likely to have is that any government ownership stake would dilute the holdings of existing shareholders. 
 For Europeans, common ground has been elusive. Mr. Sarkozy tried without success to unite leaders behind a rescue effort. Germany, in particular, has resisted a Europe-wide effort, in part because it believes it would end up bailing out its neighbors.
 ''Only coordinated action by central banks and governments is able to stop the systemic risk and ensure the financing of economies,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. He suggested a special meeting of the leaders of the Group of 8 industrialized nations before year-end.
 On Thursday, Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, and Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, took up that call, saying Mr. Bush should convene an emergency meeting of the Group of 8, which also includes Russia. The White House said earlier that Mr. Bush was open to such a meeting. 
 The White House announced that Mr. Bush would appear in the Rose Garden Friday morning to make a statement on the economy. A senior administration official said that his remarks would again seek to calm nerves.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dominique Strauss-Kahn, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, on Thursday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (69%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (55%); BEN BERNANKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



411 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: The Class War Before Palin

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Modern conservatism began as a movement of dissident intellectuals. Richard Weaver wrote a book called, ''Ideas Have Consequences.'' Russell Kirk placed Edmund Burke in an American context. William F. Buckley famously said he'd rather be governed by the first 2,000 names in the Boston phone book than by the faculty of Harvard. But he didn't believe those were the only two options. His entire life was a celebration of urbane values, sophistication and the rigorous and constant application of intellect. 
 Driven by a need to engage elite opinion, conservatives tried to build an intellectual counterestablishment with think tanks and magazines. They disdained the ideas of the liberal professoriate, but they did not disdain the idea of a cultivated mind. 
 Ronald Reagan was no intellectual, but he had an earnest faith in ideas and he spent decades working through them. He was rooted in the Midwest, but he also loved Hollywood. And for a time, it seemed the Republican Party would be a broad coalition -- small-town values with coastal reach. 
 In 1976, in a close election, Gerald Ford won the entire West Coast along with northeastern states like New Jersey, Connecticut, Vermont and Maine. In 1984, Reagan won every state but Minnesota.
 But over the past few decades, the Republican Party has driven away people who live in cities, in highly educated regions and on the coasts. This expulsion has had many causes. But the big one is this: Republican political tacticians decided to mobilize their coalition with a form of social class warfare. Democrats kept nominating coastal pointy-heads like Michael Dukakis so Republicans attacked coastal pointy-heads.
 Over the past 15 years, the same argument has been heard from a thousand politicians and a hundred television and talk-radio jocks. The nation is divided between the wholesome Joe Sixpacks in the heartland and the oversophisticated, overeducated, oversecularized denizens of the coasts.
 What had been a disdain for liberal intellectuals slipped into a disdain for the educated class as a whole. The liberals had coastal condescension, so the conservatives developed their own anti-elitism, with mirror-image categories and mirror-image resentments, but with the same corrosive effect.
 Republicans developed their own leadership style. If Democratic leaders prized deliberation and self-examination, then Republicans would govern from the gut.
 George W. Bush restrained some of the populist excesses of his party -- the anti-immigration fervor, the isolationism -- but stylistically he fit right in. As Fred Barnes wrote in his book, ''Rebel-in-Chief,'' Bush ''reflects the political views and cultural tastes of the vast majority of Americans who don't live along the East or West Coast. He's not a sophisticate and doesn't spend his discretionary time with sophisticates. As First Lady Laura Bush once said, she and the president didn't come to Washington to make new friends. And they haven't.''
 The political effects of this trend have been obvious. Republicans have alienated the highly educated regions -- Silicon Valley, northern Virginia, the suburbs outside of New York, Philadelphia, Chicago and Raleigh-Durham. The West Coast and the Northeast are mostly gone.
 The Republicans have alienated whole professions. Lawyers now donate to the Democratic Party over the Republican Party at 4-to-1 rates. With doctors, it's 2-to-1. With tech executives, it's 5-to-1. With investment bankers, it's 2-to-1. It took talent for Republicans to lose the banking community. 
 Conservatives are as rare in elite universities and the mainstream media as they were 30 years ago. The smartest young Americans are now educated in an overwhelmingly liberal environment.
 This year could have changed things. The G.O.P. had three urbane presidential candidates. But the class-warfare cliches took control. Rudy Giuliani disdained cosmopolitans at the Republican convention. Mitt Romney gave a speech attacking ''eastern elites.'' (Mitt Romney!) John McCain picked Sarah Palin.
 Palin is smart, politically skilled, courageous and likable. Her convention and debate performances were impressive. But no American politician plays the class-warfare card as constantly as Palin. Nobody so relentlessly divides the world between the ''normal Joe Sixpack American'' and the coastal elite.
 She is another step in the Republican change of personality. Once conservatives admired Churchill and Lincoln above all -- men from wildly different backgrounds who prepared for leadership through constant reading, historical understanding and sophisticated thinking. Now those attributes bow down before the common touch.
 And so, politically, the G.O.P. is squeezed at both ends. The party is losing the working class by sins of omission -- because it has not developed policies to address economic anxiety. It has lost the educated class by sins of commission -- by telling members of that class to go away. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICS (72%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) WEST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



412 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Obama Attacks McCain's Mortgage Plan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FALCONE

 BODY:
This 30-second advertisement for Senator Barack Obama will be shown across the nation on national cable television, according to the campaign. It is titled ''Tested.'' 
 PRODUCER Obama campaign media team
 THE SCRIPT A narrator says: ''In a time of crisis, our leaders' judgment is tested. On Tuesday, an announcement.'' Senator John McCain: ''I would order the secretary of the Treasury to immediately buy up the bad home loan mortgages in America.'' The narrator: ''On Wednesday, the details. McCain would shift the burden from lenders to taxpayers guaranteeing a loss of taxpayer money. Who wins? The same lenders that caused the crisis in the first place. Putting bad actors ahead of taxpayers? We can't afford more of the same.''
 ON THE SCREEN The advertisement opens with still images: a foreclosed home with a ''For Sale'' sign, a worried stock trader, the Capitol. Then a clip of Mr. McCain's announcing of his home mortgage plan at the debate Tuesday. The narrator says the plan would ''shift the burden from lenders to taxpayers'' as a graphic of a CNN Money.com article that reaches a similar conclusion appears on the screen. The advertisement ends with images of a street sign on Wall Street, followed by a photograph of Mr. McCain with President Bush.
 ACCURACY Even Mr. McCain's economic adviser, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, conceded that the plan would place a burden on taxpayers. Under the proposal, the government could buy the home loans of Americans who are at risk of defaulting (or are already delinquent) and allow them to obtain new mortgages at more favorable rates. Taxpayers would be responsible for the difference in value between the old and new mortgages. It is very likely the McCain plan would result in ''a loss of taxpayer money,'' as the message says. 
 While the advertisement portrays lenders as the winners in this arrangement, it fails to acknowledge the potential benefits to homeowners, namely more affordable mortgages. Mr. Holtz-Eakin has also noted that stabilizing home values would speed economic recovery. The commercial does not mention the fact that legislation, including the $700 billion bailout bill that Congress and the president approved last week, paved the way for the plan that Mr. McCain proposed. Both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama supported the bill.
 SCORECARD With millions of Americans at risk of foreclosure, Mr. Obama has seized on Mr. McCain's mortgage proposal as a way to question his judgment on economic issues. While the advertisement glosses over the critical point of the McCain plan -- that it is meant to be a lifeline for homeowners before they slide into foreclosure -- it makes some valid points about the new liabilities taxpayers would face. MICHAEL FALCONE 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); HOME PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); APPROVALS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



413 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: McCain Joins Attacks On Obama Over Radical

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and PATRICK HEALY; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Waukesha, Wis., and Patrick Healy from Dayton, Ohio.

DATELINE: WAUKESHA, Wis. 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain joined in the attacks on Thursday on Senator Barack Obama for his ties to the 1960s radical William Ayers, telling an angry, raucous crowd in Wisconsin that ''we need to know the full extent of the relationship'' to judge whether Mr. Obama ''is telling the truth to the American people or not.''
 Mr. Obama, in turn, condemned Mr. McCain's plan for the government to buy bad home loans as a ''bailout'' for risk-taking banks and lenders, and he told several thousand voters in Dayton, Ohio, that Mr. McCain's approach to the financial crisis was ''risky'' and ''erratic,'' a word Mr. Obama used twice. 
 The language and tone indicated that both men would continue their negative campaigning in the final weeks before Election Day, even as voters say they want solutions to the worsening economic conditions rather than back-and-forth blasts from the stump.
 But what has been most striking about the last 48 hours on the campaign trail is the increasingly hostile atmosphere at Mr. McCain's rallies, where voters furiously booed any mention of Mr. Obama and lashed out at the Democrats, Wall Street and the news media.
 ''I'm really mad!'' shouted a man in the audience in Waukesha, where Mr. McCain and his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, were conducting a town-hall-style meeting. ''And what's going to surprise you, it's not the economy. It's the socialists taking over our country.''
 A short time later, James T. Harris, a conservative talk radio host in Wisconsin who was one of the few African-Americans in the crowd, stood up and told Mr. McCain that in the next presidential debate, on Wednesday, ''it's absolutely vital that you take it to Obama, that you hit him'' where it hurts, because ''we have all of these shady characters that have surrounded him,'' as well as, he said, Mr. Obama's former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr.
 Although Mr. McCain did not mention Mr. Ayers, a founder of the radical group the Weather Underground, by name, his intent was clear in his response to a question about Mr. Obama. A man told Mr. McCain that ''we're all wondering why Obama is where he's at'' in the polls and then asked, ''Is there not a way to get around this media and line up the people he has hung with?''
 Mr. McCain responded, ''Well, sir, with your help and the people in this room, we will find out.'' He added: ''Look, we don't care about an old washed-up terrorist and his wife, who still, at least on Sept. 11, 2001, said he still wanted to bomb more. You know, but that's not the point here. The point is, Senator Obama said he was just a guy in the neighborhood. We need to know that's not true.''
 Although Mr. McCain raised questions about Mr. Obama's ties to Mr. Ayers in a televised interview last spring, he has refrained from attacking Mr. Obama on the trail for his association with Mr. Ayers in the general election campaign. He had left those attacks to his campaign operatives and Ms. Palin. 
 Mr. McCain's reference to Mr. Ayers's desire to carry out more bombings was from an article in The New York Times, published by chance on Sept. 11, 2001, about Mr. Ayers and his memoir, ''Fugitive Days.'' The article opened with a quotation: ''I don't regret setting bombs. I feel we didn't do enough.'' Three days later, Mr. Ayers wrote on his Web site that the meaning of his remarks had been distorted.
 Most of the bombings attributed to the Weathermen were meant to damage only property, but a 1970 pipe bombing in San Francisco attributed to the group killed a police officer and severely hurt another.
 Mr. Ayers is now a professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago and lives in Mr. Obama's neighborhood. He was named citizen of the year in Chicago in 1997, has worked with Mr. Obama on a schools project and a charitable board, and gave a house party when Mr. Obama was running for the State Senate.
 In Ohio, Mr. Obama took aim at Mr. McCain's mortgage plan, which would allow millions of struggling Americans to refinance their mortgages with government help, leaving taxpayers to cover the losses rather than the banks or other institutions that hold the mortgages. Mr. Obama also released an advertisement assailing the plan.
 Mr. Obama zeroed in on the potential cost to taxpayers, which would result from the government's having to pay full face value on the mortgage papers even if the homes were worth less than the outstanding mortgage balance.
 ''It's a plan that would guarantee that American taxpayers lose by handing over $300 billion to underwrite the kind of greed and irresponsibility on Wall Street that got us into this mess,'' Mr. Obama said from a platform above the pitcher's mound at the Dayton Dragons stadium.
 ''It's not just that Senator McCain's bailout rewards irresponsible lenders,'' Mr. Obama added, ''it's that his bailout would make it more likely that those lenders keep up their bad behavior.'' 
 Mr. Obama also tweaked Mr. McCain for owning -- with his wife or through her family -- about seven homes, condominiums and other dwellings. Mr. Obama promised to enact a change that would allow bankruptcy judges to write down mortgages only for people who have just one home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John McCain and Sarah Palin on Thursday in Waukesha, Wis. Their rallies have taken on an increasingly hostile atmosphere. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (57%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



414 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Oil Price Falls as Demand Forecast Is Cut

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
Oil prices fell almost $9 a barrel on Friday to their lowest level in more than a year as the slowing global economy led the International Energy Agency to cut its forecast for global demand. 
 Crude oil for November delivery settled down $8.89, at $77.70 a barrel, the lowest since October 2007. 
 The decline came after the energy agency, which is based in Paris, cut its forecast for 2008 global demand by 240,000 barrels a day. The agency now estimates daily demand this year of about 86.5 million barrels, an increase of 0.5 percent from last year -- the slowest growth in 15 years. It also cut its forecast for 2009 demand by 440,000 barrels a day, to 87.2 million barrels, a 0.8 percent increase over this year's demand.
 Prices for commodities soared in the first half of the year, with crude oil prices peaking at $145.29 a barrel in July. But the financial crisis and the accelerating slowdown have pushed prices down.
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said Thursday in Washington that the global economy was on the cusp of recession and predicted that recovery would not begin until the second half of 2009.
 Mike Wittner, head of oil market research at Societe Generale in London, said the credit squeeze was forcing oil investors out of the market as asset managers flee stocks, bonds and commodities for the security of government bonds.
 ''Any time you think the risk aversion can't get any worse -- it does,'' Mr. Wittner said, noting that there were ''serious issues of counterparty risk.''
 He said the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries was almost certain to announce output cuts at a meeting next month.
 ''The main producers don't want to see the price back up at $130 a barrel or more, but prices are off more than $60 from the peak, and they want to stop the bleeding,'' Mr. Wittner said.
 Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah, the Qatari oil minister, told Al Arabiya television on Friday that OPEC might discuss production cuts at the meeting.
 Olivier Jakob, an oil analyst at Petromatrix in Zug, Switzerland, said in a research note that oil prices would probably not stop falling until the rout in the stock market ended.
 ''Equities will remain the leading directional input to the oil markets,'' Mr. Jakob said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); BONDS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (57%); GLE (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) ZUG, SWITZERLAND (58%) SWITZERLAND (91%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



415 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: The World's Banks Could Prove Too Big to Fail -- or to Rescue

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS the banking system quaked this week in many countries, and various governments took steps to bail out their banks or at least guarantee deposits, one question was asked quietly: Can the governments afford it?
 That is not a question for the United States, which can print dollars and has a banking system that is the largest in the world but is small in relation to the national economy.
 The country where that worry first surfaced was Iceland, whose three major banks had greatly expanded overseas, including starting substantial retail operations in a number of European countries. The government has taken control of all three banks, and is not guaranteeing that foreign customers will be protected. 
 Iceland is also the only country to have its sovereign debt rating downgraded so far as a result of the financial crisis.
 The accompanying chart shows the size of national banking systems relative to their countries' economies, measured in two ways, and also show how well capitalized the banks appear to be, through the latest reported data.
 In general, higher figures in any of the graphics indicate increased danger. They do not pretend to show what shape the banks are in, but they do reflect the size of the problem each country would face if its banking system did get into trouble.
 The first two charts look not at deposits but at short-term debt carried by the banks. The banks usually have long-term debt as well. But by its nature, that debt cannot be withdrawn if worries about a bank's solvency suddenly increase. They also have deposits, but deposits are less likely to flee, at least if deposit guarantee systems are trusted. Short-term debt, on the other hand, matures within a year and may not be available to a bank that is in trouble.
 The first comparison -- the tinted circles -- looks at the size of bank short-term debt as a percentage of a country's gross domestic product. Such figures are not directly comparable, since one is the total amount of income in a country over a year, and the other is the amount owed by banks that may have to be paid over that year. But the comparisons do show relative sizes.
 In the United States, the banks have total short-term debt that is equal to 15 percent of G.D.P. But in some countries where banking systems have grown to international proportions, the debt exceeds G.D.P. That is true in Switzerland, Belgium, Iceland and Britain.
 The second comparison -- the open circles -- looks at the short-term bank debt in relation to each country's national debt.
 Again, the relationship is not direct, because a country may have excellent credit that would enable it to borrow much more, but large numbers still raise questions.
 ''Can they guarantee the deposits if the bank owes 3.5 times the national debt?'' asked Bob Prince, the co-chief investment officer of Bridgewater Associates, which provided the data.
 For countries in the euro zone, there is an additional consideration. They do not have the right to print money. That may also be true for some other banking systems, if the liabilities are primarily in currencies other than their own. Those countries could face special problems if they needed to come up with huge amounts of cash to rescue banks.
 Finally, the leverage ratio gives a rough indication of how risky a nation's banking system might be. It is the ratio of total bank assets to the net worth of the bank. That could be misleading if the assets are very safe -- government bonds, for example, versus subprime mortgage loans -- but in general the higher the ratio the smaller the margin of safety.
 There again, the United States appears to face a relatively small problem, with an average leverage ratio of 12. The figures range up to 52 in Germany. Theoretically, a 2 percent drop in the value of all German bank assets would wipe out the net worth of the banking system.
 These figures will be meaningless if the governments retain the trust of depositors and creditors. ''It becomes a matter of psychology,'' Mr. Prince said. If governments say the deposits are safe ''and the market believes them, then they don't have to have any money to back up their promises.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Short-term bank liabilities in proportion to: The circles show the size of national banking systems relative to their countries' economies, measured in two ways. In general, the larger the circle, the larger the potential size of the problem each country would face if the banking system were to get into trouble.(Source: Bridgewater Associates) Chart details bubble graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (69%); SOVEREIGN RISK (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ICELAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELGIUM (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



416 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Declining Exports Weaken Once-Powerful Asian Economies

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Reporting was contributed by Choe Sang-hun in Seoul, South Korea; Carlos H. Conde in Manila; Thomas Fuller in Bangkok; Anand Giridharadas in Mumbai, India; and Hilda Wang in Hong Kong.

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Can a region like Asia -- with more than $3 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, mostly well-capitalized banks, high savings rates, and minimal exposure to American mortgage-backed securities -- run into trouble during a global financial crisis?
 The answer on Friday was a resounding yes.
 Stock markets plunged from Tokyo to Hong Kong to Mumbai. Real estate prices are tumbling from Seoul to Shanghai to New Delhi. Singapore's economy has tipped into recession and there is growing evidence of a recession in Japan, where an unlisted insurer and a real estate investment trust filed for bankruptcy Friday.
 In the last week, investment banks from UBS to Morgan Stanley, have been warning of a global economic downturn. To Asia that sounds like a forecast that economic slowdowns in the United States and Europe will cripple demand for Asian exports and pull the region down into recession as well. 
 What went wrong?
 As the biggest beneficiary of the rise in global trade, Asia is highly dependent on exports to the West. Corporate earnings, real estate prices and much more depend on a steady inflow of dollars and euros.
 Growth in exports has slowed to a crawl or started declining across most of the region when adjusted for inflation and changes in currency values. And that is even before Western stores have had a chance to cut back their orders in response to the steep sales declines that American retailers announced on Wednesday.
 India announced on Friday that industrial production in August was just 1.3 percent higher than a year earlier. That was a sharp deceleration from July, when the growth rate was 7.4 percent.
 In Korea, exporters are suddenly struggling.
 ''The problem is the global recession -- people don't buy consumer electronics, this means less exports and fewer dollars for us,'' said Choi Hae Pyong, an electronics parts manufacturer south of Seoul. ''It's like walking in a thick fog.''
 Lower exports have an impact throughout Asian economies, on real estate for instance. As long as the region kept exporting and kept saving the proceeds, investors bid up real estate and share prices. Now prices of both have a long way to fall.
 Matthew Au, a luxury real estate broker in Hong Kong, said that this week had been even worse than the days after the Tiananmen Square killings on June 4, 1989, which briefly affected business confidence here.
 ''I've been through June 4th, the 1997 financial crises and SARS, but this time around, the decline in housing prices has been the most abrupt,'' he said. ''Sellers of properties are now more willing to consider offers which come in 20 to 30 percent below their asking prices.''
 As global financial markets increasingly look to one another for direction, lack of confidence in financial institutions and housing markets in the West has also proved contagious. Asian media have been full of reports in the last three weeks about failing banks and falling real estate prices, and that has fed anxiety in Asian markets.
 An outflow of Western investment has also played a role in Asian market declines, although foreign investment has become less important in much of the region as Asia has become a formidable saver in its own right.
 In Malaysia, foreign investors held nearly a third of Malaysia's national debt until they started selling this summer to raise money to cover losses in other markets.
 In Korea, foreign investors sold $29 billion in the first nine months of this year. This was an important reason the country's foreign exchange reserves slipped from $264.2 billion in March to a still formidable $239.7 billion last month.
 Many in Asia now despair of help from the West, and are looking to Beijing.
 ''The United States is beyond saving -- our only hope rests with China,'' said Dick Chen, a middle-age manager in a pinstriped blue shirt and carrying an ultra-slim modern mobile phone who watched the markets with dismay right after lunch in a trading room of Tai Fook Securities in Hong Kong.
 But can China save Asia? For the last six years, the Chinese economy has been like an enormously powerful hound that has charged ahead despite every obstacle. Worried that the economy might overheat and spur inflation, Beijing officials have run a budget surplus, repeatedly raised interest rates and even required banks to deposit a remarkable one-sixth of their assets as reserves to the central bank, all to slow lending.
 Now Beijing is trying to loosen its leash on the economy by cutting interest rates and taxes and lowering reserve requirements. But the government is finding the economy is already looking a little out of breath as exports slow.
 Economists see annual growth slowing from 12 percent a year ago to 8 or 9 percent this winter. That is still respectable by most countries' standards, but it could feel like a shock to many Chinese, particularly workers losing their jobs in factories that produce mainly for export markets.
 For Asia, this is the crisis that was never supposed to happen again.
 The region was deeply scarred by the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and 1998. Dozens of banks failed after lending too much with too little capital, while profligate governments found that they had borrowed too much overseas and could not repay their debts.
 That ignited a credit squeeze that bankrupted many industrial companies, which caused a steep decline in economic output and a surge in unemployment -- the same fate that may await the United States and Europe, many economists and investors fear.
 Most of Asia emerged from that crisis with more cautious banks, stricter financial regulation, a tighter rein on government spending and a strong determination to save. But while Asia broke its dependence on capital flows from the West, the dependence on exports remained.
 Still, Asia's frugality over the last decade has given the region a lot more room to maneuver than most Western countries.
 For instance, South Korea and India are often cited by economists as the Asian economies most vulnerable to the current global crisis. 
 South Korea is drawing attention because its trade numbers, by the broadest measure possible, showed a deficit of $4.7 billion in August, after mostly surpluses before that. Korean exports of manufactured goods have slumped even as the cost of its oil-dominated exports have surged -- although falling oil prices now will help.
 The South Korean won showed the steepest decline of any Asian currency against the dollar on Friday morning, falling more than 3 percent. But the won soared on Friday afternoon, with a gain for the day of 6.3 percent. 
 The reason was widespread rumors that the government would start spending part of the country's huge foreign exchange reserves to prop up the won.
 The South Korean government owes only $334 million in foreign debt repayments due by the end of next year, or 0.14 percent of its foreign exchange reserves, according to a recent study of emerging market debt by ING. Big Korean exporters like Samsung, hobbled for lack of foreign currency reserves in 1997, now have hoards of dollars.
 Corporate debt repayments are a little larger, and are also harder to calculate. 
 India was one of the few countries in Asia to escape the financial crisis a decade ago, because it was just starting to embrace international markets then. It did not adopt the same tight bank regulatory standards and tough fiscal policies as the rest of Asia after that crisis.
 That has prompted some economists, like Ajay Kapur at Mirae Asset and Takahira Ogawa at Standard & Poor's, to express particular concern about India's preparedness for the current crisis. While India has $295.3 billion in foreign exchange reserves, it is running a large government budget deficit and a large trade deficit while its banks have lent aggressively to a real estate sector that is now tumbling quickly.
 With an election expected early next year, Indian leaders have been much more upbeat about their country's prospects than most Asian leaders. Policy makers in India have also subscribed to the idea that their economy has ''decoupled'' from Western economies, an idea that most economists and policy makers in Asia rejected many months ago.
 ''India is not from any other planet,'' said a posting on an Indian Web site this week. ''This common logic is ignored by our policy makers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (69%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) ASIA (96%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



417 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; RED SOX 2, RAYS 0; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Almost Unhittable, Matsuzaka Makes Opening Statement

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 

 BODY:
Daisuke Matsuzaka of the Red Sox can be a stubborn pitcher. He is powerful enough to challenge hitters, but he often does not do it. Matsuzaka usually works the corners, waiting for hitters to bite on pitches they should not try to hit. For most of Friday night, the Tampa Bay Rays could not hit Matsuzaka at all.
 After Matsuzaka weathered a painfully long first inning, he was superb. And he was definitely challenging hitters, mixing his fastball and changeup to stifle the Rays without a hit for the first six innings. As solid as Matsuzaka's statistics were this season, this was the effective, economical pitcher the Red Sox yearn to see all the time. 
 Although Matsuzaka lost the no-hit bid in the seventh and looked as if he might lose the lead, too, he never did. He glided through a perilous situation in the seventh and guided the Red Sox to a 2-0 victory in the opener of the American League Championship Series at Tropicana Field.
 ''He looked unbelievable,'' Red Sox third baseman Kevin Youkilis said.
 With the suddenly captivated fans of the Rays ringing cowbells and trying to implore their worst-to-first team, Matsuzaka's precise pitching acted as the ultimate silencer. Matsuzaka, who had never lasted beyond the sixth inning in a playoff game, pitched into the eighth. He gave up four hits, struck out nine and walked four.
 Although the Red Sox had lost eight of nine games here during the regular season, they instantly showed that they are not spooked by playing in this quirky dome, and they are not spooked by the Rays. Designated hitter David Ortiz, explaining how he likes to study players' faces during games, said he saw different expressions among the Rays. 
 ''I'm telling you, I saw faces tonight different than what I see in the regular season,'' Ortiz said. ''I don't blame nobody. It's a lot of pressure out there right now in this game. You know you have to win or otherwise you go home.'' 
 Carl Crawford managed the first hit by lining Matsuzaka's 1-0 fastball to right field for a single to lead off the seventh. The Red Sox had two relievers getting ready. As Cliff Floyd's single to left put runners on first and third, Matsuzaka had morphed from having no problems to having a lot of issues.
 But Matsuzaka, who had looked like a lost soul in the first, steadied himself and plowed ahead against the bottom three hitters in the lineup. He retired Dioner Navarro on a popout, struck out Gabe Gross and induced Jason Bartlett to ground out. Matsuzaka bounded off the mound confidently, knowing he had inched closer to a win. 
 ''Some days I can pitch like that, some days I can't,'' said Matsuzaka, who sounded like a mystery even to himself. 
 Masa Hoshino, Matsuzaka's interpreter, said the 9:39 a.m. start time on Saturday morning in Japan was perfect. According to Hoshino, the Japanese fans would be enamored with watching Matsuzaka as they ate breakfast. After a rocky first inning that included one strikeout, Matsuzaka struck out two batters each in the second, third and fourth, one in the fifth and another in the seventh.
 Three players who were not on the Red Sox' 25-man roster in early July helped them score the game's first run in the fifth. Jason Bay walked against James Shields, and Mark Kotsay followed with a check swing double down the left field line. Jed Lowrie's sacrifice fly drove in Bay. Kevin Youkilis had a run-scoring double off J. P. Howell in the eighth to make it 2-0.
 Grant Balfour replaced Howell and, with first base open, plunked J. D. Drew in the right shoulder. With these two squabbling teams, any hit batter is worth monitoring. Naturally, Balfour said he did not target Drew. 
 Carlos Pena had a reckless at-bat in the eighth. After Matsuzaka allowed consecutive singles, Hideki Okajima replaced him. Okajima fell behind 3-0 in the count and was one pitch from loading the bases. Manager Joe Maddon permitted Pena to swing at the 3-0 pitch, and he lined out to right. Evan Longoria followed with an unsure swing against Justin Masterson in which he tapped into a double play.
 ''Both of us got good pitches to hit,'' Longoria said. ''We just didn't get good swings on them.''
 Maybe the Rays, who were so good for so long, felt different in Game 1 of the A.L.C.S. 
 ''I'm not saying somebody was scared or anything,'' Ortiz said. ''When it's your first time in the playoffs, you kind of put a little pressure on yourself.''
 The first inning proceeded slowly, very slowly, because Shields and Matsuzaka pecked at the strike zone. It took 29 minutes and 52 pitches to finish an inning in which there was one hit and no runs.
 With one out, Shields walked Pedroia. Youkilis sliced a ball that barely landed fair, bounced off the right-field warning track and went into the seats for a ground-rule double. If the ball had remained in play, Pedroia would have easily scored. Shields escaped by striking out Drew.
 Matsuzaka, who can be frustrating for fielders to play behind when he is fighting the strike zone, walked two of the first three Rays. After a strikeout, Matsuzaka walked Crawford to fill the bases. Like Shields, Matsuzaka tiptoed around danger by getting Floyd to groundout.
 After that, Matsuzaka was a different pitcher. He challenged the Rays, he retired 15 of the next 16 batters and he helped nudge Boston closer to another memorable October. With three more victories, the Red Sox will visit the World Series again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Red Sox starter Daisuke Matsuzaka gave up four hits, struck out nine and walked four while pitching into the eighth inning.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG PENSINGER/POOL PHOTOGRAPH, VIA REUTERS)
 The Red Sox utility player Alex Cora, right, with Kevin Youkilis, left, and Dustin Pedroia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM DAVIS/THE BOSTON GLOBE)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



418 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Female Smokers, And a P.R. Coup

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
FEMALE SMOKERS, AND A P.R. COUP
 Why do nearly one-fifth of women in America smoke? The answer goes back to an event almost 80 years ago on Fifth Avenue, often seen as one of the most successful P.R. stunts in American history. 
 It has surfaced again with an exhibit of historic cigarette ads at the New York Public Library's Science, Industry and Business branch, ''Not a Cough in a Carload,'' which opened this week. It is curated by a doctor, Robert J. Jackler, whose mother, a smoker, died of lung cancer.
 At the beginning of the 20th century, only women thought to have loose morals smoked in public. But the tobacco companies wanted to change this view. So in 1928, Edward Bernays, often considered the father of modern public relations, was retained by the American Tobacco Company.
 Piggybacking on the suffrage movement, Mr. Bernays persuaded 10 genteel women to march in the 1929 Easter Day parade down Fifth Avenue and light up cigarettes in a defiant show of liberation.
 As described in Larry Tye's biography of Mr. Bernays, ''The Father of Spin,'' the news media ate it up. Newspaper pictures showed elegant women, cigarettes held self-consciously by their sides as they paraded down the boulevard. 
 Soon ''it became acceptable for women to smoke outside,'' Dr. Jackler said. Cigarettes became known as ''torches of freedom.''
 The outreach continues. Last year, R. J. Reynolds introduced Camel No. 9 cigarettes, using phrases like ''light and luscious,'' and fuchsia and teal packaging. The imagery, of course, is in striking contrast to a woman featured in the city's antismoking ad: Marie, who has had 20 amputations because of her addiction to cigarettes. JENNIFER 8. LEE 
 COMMENT
 OF THE DAY
 ''Sex sells well when the economy is good, and it sells better when the economy stinks and people are depressed. A sad commentary on human nature.''
 -- Michael A. Williams, on ''$1,000 Lap Dance Defies the Market Slide''
 NEW YORK
 DAYBOOK
 The Little Apple
 It's Midtown, in miniature: In the balsa wood model now on display at the Skyscraper Museum, three-eighths of an inch equals 100 feet, but there's no lack of detail. Noon to 6 p.m., Wednesdays to Sundays, 39 Battery Place, Manhattan. See the slideshow on the blog.
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 AUDIO: Only in New York: Sam Roberts on how the '09 mayoral race has come to the fore.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A library exhibit shows cigarette ads through history. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (92%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); WOMEN (79%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (79%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); HISTORY (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (76%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (76%); TOBACCO MFG (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); LIBRARIES (71%); CANCER (70%); LUNG CANCER (70%); EASTER SEASON (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (52%); MAYORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



419 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Credit Squeeze Takes Hold in Europe

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY and KATRIN BENNHOLD; Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
Dominique Boudier, who runs a printing business outside Paris, received a letter from a key supplier last Friday that her credit line of 20 million euros was being cut in half, effective immediately. When Ms. Boudier picked up the phone to find out why, she was told that the supplier's credit insurance company had ordered the clampdown.
 On Monday, Ms. Boudier's main supplier followed suit, effectively paralyzing her business.
 ''We can't do our job and it has nothing to do with order books,'' Ms. Boudier said. ''Clients pay on average with a 60-day delay. We just haven't got the cash flow to pay our suppliers immediately.'' 
 The credit squeeze that had been largely an American phenomenon has arrived in gale force in Europe, transforming the economic outlook across the Atlantic in just a few weeks.
 While many individual businesses still maintain solid relations with their lenders, a new level of chaos in credit markets is crimping financing to numerous borrowers across Europe. So far, global interest rate cuts and cash infusions by central banks have provided scant relief.
 Ms. Boudier has pleaded with her bank to make up for the sudden shortfall, to no avail. ''We can survive this for a week, or a few weeks,'' she said, ''but beyond that nothing is certain.''
 Thomas Serval, chief executive of Barcoda, a company based outside Paris with 40 employees, which develops Bluetooth devices, agreed, saying: ''It's almost impossible to invest for the future in this environment. I'm not sure how long it will last.''
 Europe as a whole may not be suffering from the housing market devastation of the United States, but the downward spiral of financial events since the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers on Sept. 15 has eviscerated European business and consumer confidence. 
 Worries about the future are curbing household spending, countering any relief Europeans have gotten from the recent sharp fall in oil prices.
 Business investment, which drives purchases of the high-value goods and services that are Europe's specialty, is ebbing fast amid the sheer insecurity of it all.
 As a result, most economists and many business leaders now predict that a European recession this year is nearly certain, and may well continue into 2009.
 ''Predictability disappeared once the financial crisis accelerated dramatically during the last two weeks of September,'' said Henning Kagermann, co-chief executive of SAP, the bellwether German software giant.
 SAP had to deliver the bad news Monday that its earnings for the third quarter would fall short of expectations. The reason was simple: customers who were prepared to spend on information technology despite this year's slowdown suddenly lost their appetite for SAP products.
 The International Monetary Fund now expects growth in the 15-nation euro area to fall during the second half of this year and to barely rise in 2009. And that estimate, prepared in advance of this weekend's International Monetary Fund and World Bank meetings in Washington, is already considered out of date by many experts. For Britain, the only major European economy outside the euro zone, the prospect is a slightly shrinking economy through next year, the I.M.F. said.
 In the United States, lending began to contract as early as autumn 2007, when the market for short-term corporate securities, known as commercial paper, stalled. Much of this paper was collateralized with the now-infamous mortgage-backed securities, and standing corporate credit lines could not compensate.
 In Europe, reliance on traditional bank lending helped insulate the economy. But the retreat of money market funds from the wholesale market in the days after Lehman's bankruptcy filing produced a credit squeeze that pushed Europe over a tipping point, economists say.
 Instead of lending their spare cash to each other or the rest of the economy, as they are accustomed to doing, banks have parked it with the European Central Bank at ultra-low interest rates. Liquidity provided by the central bank, in short, is going through a revolving door.
 The European Central Bank took on a record 102.8 billion euros, or $139.3 billion, on Sept. 30, and 64.4 euros on Thursday -- all in a deposit facility that was barely used before the crisis.
 ''No sane banker with good contacts and clients would do this,'' said Erik Nielsen, chief European economist at the Goldman Sachs office in London. ''It would be a huge arbitrage profit if they wanted to lend, but they don't.''
 The European auto industry, heavily dependent on consumer sentiment, is already retrenching.
 Volvo said it would eliminate 2,700 jobs in Sweden and an additional 600 abroad in response to what it called the ''rapidly deteriorating market situation.'' Opel, the German subsidiary of General Motors, temporarily shut down two plants to accommodate the steep falloff in demand.
 Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of Renault, said point-blank this week that the credit crisis left him with no choice but to start hoarding money. He predicted a ''prolonged and strong'' recession.
 ''We have to be very cautious in the use of cash by slowing down investments, reducing inventories and activities,'' Mr. Ghosn said. ''That means losses, and this will add to the financial burden.''
 In the last month, European airlines including Lufthansa and Air France-KLM started registering slower bookings by business fliers.
 Jean-Francois Roubaud, the head of the French small-business federation, is hearing what banks have wrought among his members.
 Beauty salons, industrial exporters and building companies are all suddenly short of cash.
 ''Some of our members are not getting the money for investments they were hoping to make,'' Mr. Roubaud said. ''Others have trouble getting the funds to fix a short-term cash-flow problem and worry about going out of business.''
 The complaints from business about their banks are loudest in Britain, possibly the hardest-hit European economy.
 ''In the last two weeks of September, we saw a difference that began to affect the real economy,'' Stephen Alambritis, head of public affairs at the Federation of Small Business in London. ''These are businesses that have nothing to do with finance or property. We need the banks to behave themselves.''
 The federation has singled out Barclays, a major British lender, for special criticism because it recently raised borrowing costs on overdraft facilities on some small-business clients. Barclays insists its decisions reflect credit market realities and the jarring slowdown in the British economy.
 British small businesses have found the tight credit particularly galling in light of the government's decision this week to recapitalize major banks, including Barclays, in a bid to break the fever of the crisis. But the step may offer little immediate relief.
 Steven Cooper, managing director for local business banking at Barclays, said some small business were grappling with the ''emotive point'' that their businesses were not going to generate the cash they once did.
 Unemployment is rising in Britain, sapping the client base of innumerable restaurants and hotels; nervous suppliers are often demanding more money up front, squeezing businesses on both sides.
 Easing the cost of credit, Mr. Cooper said, would not make these Barclays clients more creditworthy in a downturn.
 ''It's not just about the cost of funds,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''Credit is risk-weighted and the risk in the economy is not necessarily changed by this.''
 German exporters -- hardy, diversified and, until now, generally insulated from economic troubles -- are losing important customers.
 Machine tool makers in Germany made a point early in the financial crisis of threatening banks that they would have long memories if they lost access to credit themselves. Padded by retained earnings from four boom years, they are still secure, executives say.
 But Josef Trischler, the managing director for finance at the Association of German Machine Tool Manufacturers, said customers were not getting the financing they needed. Sometimes companies can put in a good word with banks, but with 50 percent of their sales in European countries outside Germany, they do not always have the connections to secure credit.
 Heidelberger Druckmaschinen, a maker of advanced printing machinery, said last week that several orders it booked during a trade fair in June had been canceled in recent weeks, knocking sales for the current quarter below levels of a year earlier.
 Mr. Trischler said, ''The end of the upswing is going to be tougher than we would have expected.'' He added, ''How the next year is going to look we do not know.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); CASH FLOW (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CREDIT INSURANCE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); COMMERCIAL CREDIT INSURANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RECESSION (67%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (52%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (51%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: HENNING KAGERMANN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (71%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



420 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: A Bit of 'I Told You So' Outside World Bank Talks

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and CHARLIE SAVAGE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
They told everyone this was going to happen, no one listened, and now see?
 As column after column of black Lincoln Town Cars disgorged international finance officials onto the sidewalk in front of World Bank headquarters on Friday, a raggedy group of about 20 free-market protesters gathered across the street to express their sadness -- and in some cases, glee -- over the global economic catastrophe that some said had proved them right.
 ''Year after year of unregulated free-market economics have finally come home to roost,'' said Stephen Kretzmann, executive director of Oil Change, an environmental group. 
 ''Aren't those the same people who got us into this mess?'' added Kenny Bruno, another Oil Change protestor from Brooklyn, with a nod at the World Bank building. 
 It was a surreal day here in the capital of the free world, as the people who have been setting global economic policy -- the Group of 7, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund -- gathered to plot strategy in the middle of the scariest economic free fall the world has seen since 1929. 
 The annual meetings of the World Bank, I.M.F. and G-7 finance ministers typically do not carry with them much in the way of urgency. The script is usually so familiar that the Washington police know it by heart: finance ministers arrive in their limos and stake out their tables at the city's best restaurants; free-market protestors dressed like Mutant Ninja Turtles kick up a ruckus in a tiny triangular patch of park across from World Bank headquarters; a few of the protesters get arrested trying to enter the building; and the news media, and the rest of the city, largely ignore the event.
 A steady refrain from the protesters has been that more economic nationalism is needed, both to protect the poor and to prevent big corporations from robbing smaller countries of wealth. They have argued that more regulation is needed to keep big business in check, and have derided free markets as benefiting only a narrow swath of society. 
 Typically at World Bank meetings, officials grouse about the misguided protesters. This year, things are a little different. ''There's no question the Washington consensus is dead,'' one senior World Bank official said, requesting anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly to a reporter. He said he was referring to ''the free-market consensus,'' adding that at the World Bank, the push toward deregulation and unfettered free markets ''died at the time of the $700 billion bailout.'' 
 Huddled together in groups in the bank's cafeteria, where the specials on Friday included Ethiopian spicy braised chicken and curried tofu saute, bank officials were focused on their own accounts. ''You withdraw your money?'' one British accent said to another. ''No, no, no, I'm putting my money in!'' came the reply.
 Outside, the group of protesters included Medea Benjamin, co-founder of Global Exchange, sporting paraphernalia from the antiwar group Code Pink that routinely gets her tossed out of Senate and House hearings on Capitol Hill. ''It's certainly a sad thing to see the ripple effect of this unchecked capitalism on ordinary people.''
 Ms. Benjamin couldn't leave it there, though, and soon broke into a huge grin. ''But on the other hand, to see the fat cats on Wall Street scrambling and losing their yachts! We've been saying this would happen.''
 For many of the protesters, there is a dreamlike quality to these days. They were in Seattle in 1999, the Woodstock of the antiglobalization movement, when they helped stop the World Trade Organization from starting a new round of trade talks. 
 They were in Genoa, Italy, at a G-8 meeting in 2001, when they said they were treated like criminals (Italian police even shot one protester) all because, they said, they tried to warn of the perils of unfettered capitalism. They scaled the Plaza Hotel in New York to hang banners decrying corporate greed and marched giant puppets down 17th Street in Washington to warn against globalization. 
 And after all that, who does the world call on to get the global economy out of this mess? Gazing at the bureaucrats entering the World Bank building, Brent Blackwelder, president of Friends of the Earth, was not amused. ''We are doomed if we think that going back to the people who caused this problem will get us out of it,'' he said. 
 A block away, outside the I.M.F. headquarters, Clive Tasker, a commercial banker from Johannesburg, was taking a break from the doom and gloom of the meetings inside to check his BlackBerry. ''There is a high level of uncertainty, with some pretty frank and open discussions happening as to what possibly might unfold, and in that context, there are as many different scenarios as there are people in the discussion,'' he said. 
 As he spoke, a group supporting Lyndon H. LaRouche Jr. walked by wheeling a poster that asked ''Who will be next?'' They handed out fliers quoting Mr. LaRouche calling for the entire dollar-based financial system to be declared bankrupt and reorganized with a ban on derivative trading. Without such action, it warned, ''this planet is doomed to a horrible dark age.''
 It wasn't all doom and gloom in Washington. though. Further on up the road, the ubiquitous line of black Lincoln Town Cars was queuing up in front of Kinkead's, one of the city's most expensive restaurants. In groups of three and four, dark-suited bankers ran up the restaurant's steps, for oysters and Sancerre. Outside, the Town Car armada idled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (96%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BAILOUTS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); RESTAURANTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



421 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; THE LONG COUNTDOWN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Russia Leads Way in Space Tourism With Paid Trips Into Orbit

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Space is for sale. 
 While NASA looks ahead toward five years without shuttle flights and struggles to develop the next generation of spacecraft within its budget, the Russian space program has found ways to make space pay. And in doing so, the former Soviet Union has shown that it is leading the way toward capitalism in space travel. 
 When a Soyuz rocket carries two crew members to the International Space Station on Sunday, there will be a paying passenger aboard. Richard Garriott, a successful computer game designer whose father, Owen Garriott, flew two missions for NASA in the 1970s, will carry science experiments to space and document his journey on the Web -- and all for $30 million. 
 Mr. Garriott is the sixth person to become what NASA calls a spaceflight participant -- the space agency frowns on using the term ''astronaut'' for people who haven't been selected and trained for the program. But Mr. Garriott hates the term ''space tourist,'' he said. ''This is much more than a mere lark.''
 He has, he noted, undergone months of training and plans to bring an array of experiments to the station involving protein crystal growth that could help pave the way for commercial exploitation of the zero-gravity environment. ''Space is going to be a very valuable place,'' he said, and experiments like his are ''what's going to open the door.''
 Russia, however, might not have the monopoly on space tourism for long. Another company, Virgin Galactic, plans to begin taking clients to the cusp of space in the next few years. 
 The company, founded by Sir Richard Branson, will fly a spaceship designed by Burt Rutan and based on SpaceShipOne, which won the Ansari X Prize in 2004. More than 250 people have put down the full $200,000 fare in anticipation of the first suborbital flights. Other companies, including XCOR Aerospace or Mojave, Calif., are planning suborbital craft of their own.
 The idea of people paying their way to space was revolutionary in 2001, when Dennis Tito, a financier, flew to the International Space Station for a reported $20 million aboard a Russian Soyuz spacecraft. Now five people have put money down and strapped in through Space Adventures, the company that arranges the trips. 
 Mr. Garriott had hoped to take that first flight, but the dot-com stock market crash diminished his fortune and forced him to defer that dream. His interest in space is longstanding and he has used his software fortune to collect items as varied as a spare Sputnik. It was made before the world's first spacecraft was launched by the Soviet Union on Oct. 4, 1957, three years before he was born. The New York Times wrote about his collection last year.
 The training, he said in an interview, has been arduous and fun. He has experienced zero gravity in a plane flying a repeating parabolic course and has felt high G forces in a Russian centrifuge; he and his crewmates nearly collapsed during a drill in which they had to wriggle into their water rescue suits within the stifling confines of a Soyuz capsule -- a process he called ''the most difficult thing I've done.'' (Everything went smoothly the next day.)
 Eric Anderson, the chief executive of Space Adventures, said that his company is doing for private citizens what NASA does when it buys passage to the International Space station aboard a Soyuz. ''Why should government employees be the only ones to go into space?'' he said.
 For $3 million, Space Adventures offers ''backup crew'' participation in which customers get all of the training that the spaceflight participant will get -- without the flight.
 Other companies may not get their clients to space, but they do take advantage of the fact that Russia's space program has welcomed capitalism with open arms. Mir Corp., a travel company based in Washington state, takes well-heeled tourists to Baikonur to see launches and provides tours of Moscow, including the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center. 
 Doug Grimes, the founder of Mir Corp, who has been working in the field of Russian tourism since 1987, said tours typically cost about $19,000 per person, and despite the toughening economic times, he said, ''you'd be surprised how many people have enough money to take expensive trips these days.'' 
 For a trip scheduled for this month to coincide with Mr. Garriott's launch, Mir Corp. offered a zero-gravity flight for $5,690 per person, centrifuge training (from $1,990 to $4,490 per person), and space suit training ($4490)
 The Russians have strict health requirements for such bonuses as the centrifuge and training in the enormous swimming pool that simulates spacewalking; Mr. Grimes says, ''Every time I get somebody who wants to do it, they keep rejecting them.''
 Another company, Incredible Adventures, takes clients to the 68,000 feet in Russian Mig-31 fighters, which the company calls the ''edge of space.'' It is far short of the more than 300,000 feet that is generally considered to be the beginning of space, but it does provide a view of black sky above and is much higher than commercial airliners fly. 
 If the $200,000 that Virgin Galactic is charging sounds like a lot of money to pay for a few minutes of black sky and weightlessness, Mr. Anderson said, ''who would have believed 10 years ago that there were that many people willing to pay $35 million to go to space?''
 Or, for that matter, twice as much? On Monday, Space Adventures announced that its fifth client to go to orbit, Charles Simonyi, had signed up for a second trip.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE STATIONS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); COMPUTER GAMES (55%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



422 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Are Gaining in State, Registration Data Shows

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and GRIFF PALMER

 BODY:
Some longtime Republican strongholds in New York are becoming increasingly Democratic, a striking change driven by demographic shifts, intense voter registration drives by Democrats and allied groups and sagging Republican fortunes at the tail end of George W. Bush's presidency.
 The transformation has occurred most visibly in the suburbs of New York City and some upstate cities, as well as in the rapidly suburbanizing counties along the Hudson River. 
 New York State as a whole has grown steadily more Democratic in recent years, a trend that is unlikely to abate anytime soon. According to the State Board of Elections, registered Democrats now outnumber Republicans by 5.5 million to 3.2 million, with unaffiliated voters at 2.4 million.
 But now Republicans are falling behind even in places like Long Island, where Nassau County -- once home to the most formidable Republican machine in the country -- reported this week, for the first time in its history, having more registered Democrats than Republicans. Likewise, in Dutchess County, which runs from the Hudson east to the Connecticut line, Democrats overtook Republicans in enrollment on Wednesday, according to election officials there.
 Such shifts could mean trouble in next month's elections, when the Republican Party will try to preserve its one-seat majority in the State Senate, now the party's last bastion of power in Albany. 
 For symbolic and practical reasons, the turnover in Nassau County is perhaps the most stark. Over the years, the Republican organization there has produced many leading Republican politicians, among them former United States Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and Dean G. Skelos, the Senate majority leader. 
 ''Nassau has been around for 110 years,'' said Jay Jacobs, the Democratic county chairman. ''For 110 years it's been Republican. This is a big deal.''
 Long Island's Democratic growth has already borne fruit for the party. Last year, Craig M. Johnson won a hotly contested special election in Nassau County to become Long Island's only Democratic state senator. 
 Republican officials said that they were used to running -- and winning -- in an overwhelmingly Democratic state, and played down the significance of the enrollment trends. Voters, they said, would choose the candidate, not the party, and were attuned to the Republican message of lower taxes and balanced government. Moreover, all of the Republican candidates in close Senate races have been cross-endorsed by New York's Independence Party, which has seen significant growth in recent years.
 Both parties are also claiming that their presidential candidates -- John McCain at the top of the Republican ticket, Barack Obama at the top of the Democratic one -- will drive turnout in key Senate races. 
 ''What really matters is who actually gets out to vote on Election Day, and that's where our greatest strength lies,'' said Joseph Conway, a Republican campaign spokesman. ''We've got more motivated voters who actually come out to vote, and our candidates have always had a very strong cross-party appeal.''
 Mr. McCain's and Mr. Obama's campaigns each have large voter-registration efforts in New York, according to campaign spokesmen. 
 But evidence suggests that enthusiasm among Democratic voters is higher than among Republicans this year, when the party's image nationally -- tied to a deeply unpopular president and a sinking economy -- is in jeopardy. Between 2002 and 2004, Republican enrollment grew statewide, albeit more slowly than Democratic growth. But between 2006 and 2008, Republicans showed a net loss of voters, compared with a net gain for Democrats. 
 Of course, demography is not always destiny in New York. Republicans have long run competitively in local elections, even in areas where Democratic voters dominate, in part by appealing to the rapidly growing ranks of independent voters. In Western New York, for example, Republicans have won a string of county executive races in some of the same areas that are pivotal in this fall's Senate races. Even in New York City, one of the most intensely Democratic-leaning cities in the country, Democrats have failed to put one of their own in the mayor's office for nearly two decades.
 ''The Republican Party has been running against a demographic shift in New York for years,'' said Senator Tom Libous, a Binghamton-area Republican and a leader of the party's Senate campaign efforts. ''What we've been able to do is sell our candidates and the great work they've done.''
 According to an analysis by Democratic strategists of new voters, registration in traditionally black and Hispanic areas is running as much as twice as high as in traditionally white areas.
 Karen Scharff, the director of Citizen Action, a nonpartisan organization, says her group is focused on organizing in neighborhoods that are home to many minority residents in cities like Rochester, Syracuse and Buffalo. 
 ''We didn't do as much registration in 2004 as we are doing this year,'' Ms. Scharff said. ''People are much more attuned to the elections this year and interested in what is happening.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Republican Registration Erosion: Republican state senators, some in once-secure districts, must contend with a steady increase of Democratic voter registration. Here are seven key seats. (CHART BY FORD FESSENDEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TRENDS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



423 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: In Major Shift, China May Let Peasants Sell Rights to Farmland

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Huang Yuanxi contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Chinese leaders are expected to allow peasants to buy or sell land-use rights for the first time, a step that could draw hundreds of millions of farmers more firmly into the market economy, now centered around the cities.
The new policy, which is being discussed this weekend by Communist Party leaders and could be announced within days, would be the biggest economic reform in many years and would mark another significant departure from the system of collective ownership and state control that China built after the 1949 revolution.
Party leaders began reviewing a draft of proposed rural land reform laws on Thursday at their annual planning session, now under way. Policy changes are expected to be announced after the session ends on Sunday, scholars and government advisers say.
The most important change would allow China's peasantry, which by official count includes about 800 million people, to sell land-use contracts to other farmers or to agricultural companies. Some economists say this shift would lead to more efficient land use and allow much larger farms to be established. 
The Chinese leadership has long insisted that the country must remain self-sufficient in the production of staple foods, and is highly unlikely to allow farmers to sell land-use rights for nonagricultural development. But if a market for trading farmland developed as expected, peasants could gain a new source of cash income that could help revitalize the stagnant rural economy.
''If all the speculations are true, if senior leadership is going to lift all the restrictions out the door, I'd say this is a great positive,'' said Keliang Zhu, a lawyer with the China research division of the Rural Development Institute, a Seattle-based organization that has pushed for land rights for the rural poor. ''It'll free up the dead capital and allow all this wealth to materialize.''
Mr. Zhu added that the change would give China ''huge momentum in terms of agricultural development.''
Chinese leaders are alarmed by the prospect of a deep recession in leading export markets at a time when their own economy, after a long streak of double-digit growth, is slowing. Officials are eager to stoke new consumer activity at home, and one potentially enormous but barely tapped source of demand is the peasant population, which has been largely excluded from the raging growth in cities.
Average income in rural areas lags far behind the average in cities, giving China one of the starkest income gaps in the world, according to government estimates.
Many farmers work on tiny, state-allocated plots of land for a small fraction of the year, investing little in agriculture. While they are entitled to 30-year land-use contracts, the state retains ownership of rural land, and local officials often seize or reallocate it to suit their development priorities.
Rural land disputes are perhaps the biggest source of social unrest in China. Protests and riots in rural areas number in the thousands each year, according to national police estimates. They are often incited by allegations of corruption and illegal land seizures.
Many farmers leave the land to seek work in cities, but they are still classified as farmers under the country's population control policies and tend to work in low-wage factory or construction jobs on a seasonal basis.
Advocates for land reform say the proposed changes would create more asset wealth for farmers and strengthen land security, which would in turn encourage peasants to invest in farming and increase productivity.
A law enacted in 2002 allows limited land-use trades between individual farmers, but does not permit unrestricted trade between farmers and companies, straight sales of land-use rights or the option to use the land as collateral to obtain a loan, Mr. Zhu said.
The major state news organizations reported Friday that rural land reform was at the top of the agenda for the plenary session. China Daily, the country's official English-language newspaper, said, ''The meeting is expected to make it easier for farmers to lease or transfer the management rights of their land, measures that have become necessary as many farmers move to cities as migrant workers.''
Private ownership of land is not allowed under the Constitution, and rural land is still effectively controlled by township- and village-level leaders. Officials characterize the proposed policy changes as allowing the farmers to lease or trade their 30-year land-use contracts to individuals or companies.
The issue remains a delicate one. Many party traditionalists strongly favor collective land ownership. They have argued that China's economy is still not robust enough to absorb hundreds of millions of rural laborers full time. They also defend the system of allocating small plots of land to all rural families as guaranteeing farmers at least a subsistence income.
But repeated efforts to enliven the rural economy without freeing up land have failed, and proponents of moving toward partial privatization appear to have the upper hand.
One point under discussion is whether land contracts should be extended to 70 years from 30 years, scholars say, a move that would give farmers more security and presumably increase the value of their land-use rights.
Chinese leaders have been carefully preparing the public for a major announcement.
On Sept. 30, President Hu Jintao, who is also the secretary general of the Communist Party, made a well-publicized visit to Xiaogang village in Anhui Province, the site in 1978 of a bold experiment in rejecting Maoist-era land collectivization. Since then, the village has been held up as a symbol of rural land reform.
Mr. Hu said at the time that farmers would soon be allowed to transfer their land contracts.
''Not only will the current land contract relationship be kept stable and unchanged over time, greater and protected land contract and management rights will be given to the peasants,'' Mr. Hu said, according to Xinhua, the state news agency. ''Furthermore, if the peasants wish to, they will be allowed to transfer the land contract and management rights in various ways and to develop management on an appropriate scale.''
Some farmers are already informally leasing out their land-use contracts. After Mr. Hu's visit to Xiaogang, China Daily reported glowingly that one farmer who took part in the risky experiment in 1978, Yan Jinchang, had recently joined about 10 other households in renting 44 acres of land to a Shanghai company. In 2006, the company built a pig farm on the land.
Mr. Yan, 65, was made the pig farm's manager.
''We raise special pigs that produce lean pork,'' Mr. Yan said, according to the China Daily. ''Our meat sells well in Shanghai, and we are profitable.''
From dynastic times onward, control of farmland has always been a central part of the relationship between Chinese rulers and the common people. Rulers are keenly aware of the fact that peasant rebellions related to land use and taxes have overthrown kingdoms throughout Chinese history.
Mao forced farmers into collectives, a move that turned out to be disastrous. In 1978, before the Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping officially announced the start of his bold Reform and Open policy, 18 families in Xiaogang, including Mr. Yan's, quietly decided to divide up communal farmland for personal use. It was the precursor to the land-use contract system that the government later enacted.
But since then, rural land reform has not kept pace with urban land reform, which partly explains while farmers have failed to capitalize on the economic gains of the past few decades. China allows urban residents to trade or sell their land-use contracts freely. That right has allowed people to profit from city property in ways that farmers have not legally been able to do.
There is speculation that Mr. Hu has chosen the party's planning session this year to announce the rural reforms in order to link himself in the public eye with Mr. Deng, whose initial economic reforms were unveiled 30 years ago this month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The rural economy has lagged behind China's booming cities.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (pg. A1)
 A harvest in Shandong Province. Many farmers eke out a living on tiny, state-owned plots but seek better paying jobs in the cities.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (91%); LAND USE PLANNING (91%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); RECESSION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); AGRICULTURE (72%); POLITICS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



424 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: In Civil Court, Reckoning Awaits Those Who Got Seduced by Plastic

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The clerk called out the names of the collection agencies, debt owners, credit card companies. 
 Arrow Financial Services. Midland Funding. 
 ''Capital One, are you here?''
 A young lawyer, Seth Funk, spoke up.
 ''I'm here,'' he said.
 It was Friday morning in the Civil Court of New York City, where lawsuits involving up to $25,000 are heard. Mr. Funk had 25 cases on the calendar to collect on credit card debts. 
 As the final stop on the subprime lending train, the Civil Court has become the 21st-century debtors' court. Filings have nearly tripled since 2000. Of these, court officials project that about 350,000 this year will involve debt on credit cards. They typically arrived in the mail with ''0% interest'' printed in gigantic letters on the envelope, and ''24%'' rendered in type that only an ant could read. 
 The clerk picked the top file off a stack and called for the collection agency and person being sued.
 ''North Star Capital Acquisition,'' he said. ''Juan Vega.''
 Mr. Vega, 31, rose. The lawyer for North Star wanted to talk about a settlement. Of the 55 cases on the calendar in Manhattan on Friday, not one defendant had a lawyer; the right to counsel applies only to criminal cases.
 About 20 minutes later, Mr. Vega walked out of the courtroom, case closed.
 ''They said I owed $1,400,'' he said. ''In the settlement it went down to $900. They told me to pay $50 a month.''
 How did he run up $1,400 in debt?
 ''I heard about this 800 number you could call to get a card,'' he said. ''I was working as a security guard in Herald Square. It was several years ago.''
 What did you buy?
 ''I bought some shoes,'' he said. ''My son was young, we got Pampers, things like that.''
 At the time, he was making about $11 an hour. How much had he spent? 
 The shoes, he guessed, were $40. The other stuff was $400 or less.
 ''They gave me a $500 spending limit,'' he said. ''So it was less than that. The rest to get it to $1,400 was interest, fees.''
 The negotiations had been two sentences long. 
 ''The lawyer said, 'We can finish this for $900,' and I said, 'O.K.,' '' Mr. Vega said. ''It was my first time with a credit card. I do everything by cash now.''
 The lawyers for the banks had virtually no documents on the cases, just printouts with names, account numbers and the amount that was supposedly owed. When it was Miranda Gee's turn, she produced papers showing that she held a different account with Capital One than the one listed on the printout, which claimed that she owed about $1,000.
 ''They brought me here, but it wasn't my account at all,'' Ms. Gee, 43, said. ''They put a hold on my bank accounts with Chase for twice the amount they claimed.'' 
 The judge agreed to sign an order unfreezing her savings with Chase while Capital One investigated to make sure it had the right account. Since Mr. Funk, the bank's lawyer, had no paperwork, he asked Ms. Gee if he could copy her file. She said yes.
 The administrative judge for the Civil Court, Fern A. Fisher, has started a volunteer ''lawyer for a day'' program, and set up advice centers. Many people who came to the court in Manhattan on Friday said they felt as if they had been treated with respect by the judge and the court clerk.
 In an interview, Judge Fisher said some people found themselves in default by simply failing to answer a summons. 
 ''The original lender may have now sold it to a debt collection agency, or a third debt collection agency,'' Judge Fisher said. ''That's why some people ignore the papers.'' 
 Earlier this year, the court -- rather than the collection agency or bank -- began sending out notices, and the response rate improved, she said.
 What happens in the civil courts are the last tremors of an economy built around the twin seductions of consumption and debt, a dance portrayed in ''In Debt We Trust: America Before the Bubble Bursts,'' a 2007 documentary by Danny Schechter.
 As Josephine DeLeon, a part-time beautician, left the courtroom on Friday, she reflected on her own vulnerability. Her mailbox, she said, was routinely stuffed with offers of no- or low-interest cards. 
 ''You take it, then they send you a letter increasing your limit to $1,500,'' Ms. DeLeon said. ''And by the way, we're now giving you a platinum card. Take this heroin, shoot up this drug, and you can come back and pay me later. It's very easy. You're late one time, and that zero percent rate goes to 16. Then it goes to 24. And they put in membership fees. You pay the interest on them, too.''
 Her debt of $2,000 had rocketed in a few months to $3,400. She left without settling, saying the bank was being stubborn about collecting every dollar of hidden fees. ''They have people on their knees,'' Ms. DeLeon said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Maxed Out: The surge in Civil Court filings in the last several years has been driven by credit card default cases, court officials say. (Source: Civil Court of the City of New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



425 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Shrinks as Oil Declines

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit edged down slightly in August, reflecting a drop in the value of foreign oil imports from record levels. 
 But the politically sensitive deficit with China increased as imports from that country hit a record.
 The Commerce Department said the trade deficit declined 3.5 percent in August to $59.1 billion. The deficit is expected to shrink even further in coming months as a severe economic slump in the United States depresses demand for oil and other imported goods.
 America's foreign oil bill declined to $43.7 billion in August, down a record $7.3 billion from the record high of $51 billion in July. 
 The drop reflected both lower shipments and oil prices.
 The big decline in oil lowered total imports to $223.9 billion, the second-highest level on record but down 2.4 percent from the record high set in July.
 Exports totaled $164.7 billion, also the second-highest level on record, but down 2 percent from the July record. Exports have been the standout performer this year in keeping growth positive.
 The economic downturn has put a damper on oil prices, which surged to record highs in July but since then have fallen sharply. Oil settled on Friday at $77.70, far below the record of about $145 in mid-July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



426 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: The Navy, Whales and the Court

 BODY:
We hope the Supreme Court has the sense to assert its authority over military activities that can cause environmental harm far from any battlefield. Some of the justices' comments this week sounded as though they were feeling far too deferential to the military. 
 The court is considering whether to reverse lower-court decisions that the Navy must restrict its use of sonar in training exercises to protect whales and other marine mammals. Two lower courts have ruled that the Navy could conduct exercises off the California coast provided it employs mitigation measures, such as suspending or reducing sonar emissions when sound-sensitive marine mammals are nearby.
 The Federal District Court in Los Angeles found that the Navy could effectively train with the restrictions. The appeals court offered the Navy a path to relief if that judgment proved wrong. Unfortunately, the Bush administration sought to evade restrictions by declaring what looks like a bogus national security emergency. Now it is asking the Supreme Court to overturn the restrictions. 
 Judging from comments at a hearing on Wednesday, many justices seem inclined to do that. It was dismaying to hear Justice Stephen Breyer assert that ''I don't know anything about this. I'm not a naval officer.'' It was discouraging that Justice Samuel Alito found it ''incredibly odd'' that a district court judge had concluded that her restrictions would not compromise the Navy's training when the Navy claimed they would. 
 The courts typically give deference to the military, but such reticence does not seem warranted in this situation, which hardly rises to the level of a military emergency. The district court judge drew on the Navy's own records of past exercises and other evidence submitted by the Navy to reach her conclusion that mitigation measures would not unduly constrain training.
 Few justices are truly expert in most of the issues they confront. Yet they have no qualms about ruling on cases that involve complex political, social, economic, scientific or medical issues. The courts have rightly stepped in to second-guess the government's handling of terrorism cases in the midst of the so-called war on terror. Surely the Supreme Court has the ability to judge whether the military should be allowed to flout environmental laws with a dubious claim of national security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SONAR SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY TRAINING (90%); JUDGES (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); NAVIES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MAMMALS (76%); EMISSIONS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); TERRORISM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (94%)

PERSON: STEPHEN BREYER (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



427 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Economic Uncertainty Spreads

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and CARTER DOUGHERTY; Reporting was contributed by Choe Sang-hun, Carlos H. Conde, Thomas Fuller, Anand Giridharadas and Hilda Wang.

 BODY:
In Korea, exporters are suddenly struggling.
 In India, industrial growth has slowed drastically. 
 In Sweden, Volvo is cutting thousands of jobs.
 In Japan, which thought it was immune to the market chaos, a credit squeeze seems to be forcing small companies into bankruptcy.
 Around the world, fears of recession have fed a stock market panic, as worries about toxic assets spread from the financial sector to the credit markets and now to the broader economy.
 Companies from Germany to Asia are hoarding cash because credit markets are tight. The sheer uncertainty of it all is upending plans for businesses to expand. Consumers have pulled back, just as they received some relief from high oil prices. 
 Even creditworthy companies cannot get money in Europe. And across Asia, export growth has slowed to a crawl or started declining in real terms -- and that was before American retailers announced steep sales declines on Wednesday. 
 The United States, once the engine of the global economy, is ailing and in no position to inspire confidence, much less point the way around or out of recession. Americans are seen as both the root of the problem, and powerless to solve it. 
 But no government effort has been able to stanch the bleeding -- even the unprecedented coordination of central banks on three continents, which only generates more fear.
 The liquidity provided by the European Central Bank seems to be going through a revolving door. After releasing billions of euros into the market, the bank took in a record 102.8 billion euros on Sept. 30 and 64.4 billion euros on Thursday for banks. Instead of lending their spare cash to each other or the rest of the economy, banks have parked it with the central bank at extraordinarily low interest rates. 
 ''No sane banker with good contacts and clients would do this,'' Erik Nielsen, chief Europe economist at Goldman Sachs in London, said. ''It would be a huge arbitrage profit if they wanted to lend, but they don't.''
 The short-lived notion that Asia had decoupled from the United States and was now operating independently of the American business cycle is all but dead. Asia has been the biggest beneficiary of the rise in global trade over the last two decades. Its corporate earnings, real estate prices and much more are dependent on a steady inflow of dollars and euros through exports to the West.
 But the International Monetary Fund predicts that growth in the 15 nations that use the euro will fall during the second half of this year and barely rise in 2009. (And that estimate was prepared in advance of this weekend's meetings of the monetary fund and World Bank in Washington and is already considered out of date by many experts.) Britain's economy, the only major European one outside the euro zone, is expected to shrink through next year.
 Many in Asia, despairing of help from the West, are looking toward Beijing. 
 ''The United States is beyond saving -- our only hope rests with China,'' Dick Chen, a middle-age manager, said as watched the markets with dismay Friday in a Hong Kong trading room.
 For the last six years, the Chinese economy has charged ahead despite every obstacle. In fact, Beijing was more concerned that the economy would overheat, spurring inflation. So China ran a budget surplus, repeatedly raised interest rates and required banks to deposit a remarkable one-sixth of their assets as reserves to the central bank.
 Now, facing slower growth, Beijing is suddenly trying to prod its economy by cutting interest rates and taxes and lowering reserve requirements. But the government is finding the economy is already looking a little out of breath.
 Economists see annual growth slowing from 12 percent a year ago to 8 or 9 percent this winter. 
 South Korea is already hurting. ''The problem is the global recession -- people don't buy consumer electronics, this means less exports and fewer dollars for us,'' said Choi Hae Pyong, whose company south of Seoul manufactures electronics parts. ''It's like walking in a thick fog.''
 Lower exports have an impact throughout Asian economies -- on real estate, for instance. As long as the region kept exporting and kept saving the proceeds, investors bid up real estate and share prices. Now prices of both have a long way to fall.
 This week showed the first concrete signs that the financial crisis might be starting to damage Japan's broader economy. On Wednesday, Tokyo Shoko Research, a market research company, released data showing the number of corporate bankruptcies jumped 34.4 percent last month from a year earlier, to 1,408, a five-and-a-half-year high. Economists said the increase might reflect a growing credit squeeze in which Japanese banks cut back on loans to smaller, lesser-known companies.
 Since mid-September, lending to even creditworthy companies has dried up in Europe.
 Last March, for example, Thomas Serval arranged a private equity investment of three million euros for his small French company, which develops Bluetooth devices to read data from bar codes, ubiquitous in modern commerce. But he is carefully nursing the money.
 Mr. Serval, like other business executives in Europe, has had to cancel several projects because his suppliers could not get loans. His banks now refuse unpaid invoices as lending collateral, a recent reversal of their longstanding policy.
 Banks, in a fashion, are blaming consumers. Steven Cooper, managing director for local business banking at Barclays, said some small businesses simply failed to accept that their businesses would make less money in the future. Unemployment is rising, sapping the client base of restaurants and hotels, but nervous suppliers are often demanding more money up front, squeezing businesses on both. 
 And that is why government actions -- from the $700 billion bank bailout in the United States to the coordinated cutting of interest rates by central banks this week -- have had little effect on freeing up money and getting banks to lend to each other or their customers.
 Mr. Cooper said, for instance, that easing the cost of credit would not make Barclays clients more creditworthy in a downturn. ''It's not just about the cost of funds. Credit is risk-weighted and the risk in the economy is not necessarily changed by this,'' he said.
 Many businesses have already started to retrench, like the European auto industry. 
 Volvo said it would eliminate 2,700 jobs in Sweden and 600 more abroad in response to what it called the ''rapidly deteriorating market situation.'' Opel, the German subsidiary of General Motors, temporarily shut down two plants because of a steep falloff in demand.
 Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of Renault, said this week that the credit crisis left him with no choice but to start hoarding money. He predicted a ''prolonged and strong'' recession. 
 ''We have to be very cautious in the use of cash by slowing down investments, reducing inventories and activities,'' Mr. Ghosn said. ''That means losses, and this will add to the financial burden.''
 Many economists see a recession as inevitable now. Several factors will decide how widespread it is, how painful it is and how long it lasts. 
 There is still the possibility that some confidence could be restored if leaders meeting in Washington over the weekend come up with a cohesive plan, in particular, one that involves government insurance of bank deposits or interbank lending.
 The other hope is consumers. If European or American consumers keep spending, that too could stave off the worst of a downturn. But Americans have slowed their spending, and retailers expect a dismal holiday shopping season. And the downward spiral of financial events since the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers has eviscerated European business and consumer confidence.
 If Asia can move from an export-driven economy to a consumption-driven economy, it could keep Asian factories chugging along and perhaps generate demand for American and European exports. But Asians are used to saving, not consuming.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators clashed with police in the financial district of London on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE MacGREGOR/REUTERS)(pg. B4) CHART: DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE: The stock market had one of its worst weeks ever, with the Dow dropping 1,874 points for a loss of more than 18 percent.(Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EURO (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EURO ZONE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SWEDEN (92%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



428 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: What's On TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (HBO) ATONEMENT (2007) Pull out the hankies for this adaptation of the Ian McEwan novel about Briony (Saoirse Ronan, above left), a 13-year-old aspiring playwright who accuses Robbie (James McAvoy, above right), the son of a family servant -- and the lover of her older sister, Cecelia (Keira Knightley) -- of a crime. Romola Garai and Vanessa Redgrave play Briony as a young woman and as an older writer. Ms. Ronan earned an Oscar nomination for best supporting actress, one of seven nominations the film received, including best picture; Dario Marianelli won for best original score. Joe Wright directed.
 10 A.M. (Fox News) FOX NEWS SPECIAL BUSINESS REPORT: RESCUING THE RESCUE Neil Cavuto looks at why the $700 billion bailout bill has not stopped the economic crisis and what needs to be done to get the country's financial system back on track. Guests include former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas; Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas; Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey, a former chief executive of Goldman Sachs; Steve Forbes, chief executive of Forbes; Richard Branson, chief executive of the Virgin Group; and Richard A. Grasso, former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange. 
 NOON (13) THE OPEN MIND Sean Wilentz, the Princeton historian, discusses how the events described in ''The Age of Reagan,'' his latest book, fundamentally changed American politics.
 8 P.M. (21) MITZI GAYNOR: RAZZLE DAZZLE! THE SPECIAL YEARS It has been 50 years since Ms. Gaynor earned a Golden Globe nomination for her role as Ensign Nellie Forbush in the film version of Rodgers & Hammerstein's ''South Pacific,'' and 40 since ''Mitzi,'' her first televised special, on NBC. This documentary presents Ms. Gaynor in song and dance performances alongside Michael Landon, Benny Goodman, Jane Withers and Suzanne Pleshette, and features interviews with Bob Mackie, Carl Reiner, Kristin Chenoweth, Rex Reed and Kelli O'Hara.
 8 P.M. (Animal Planet) DOGS 101 Everything you ever wanted to know about dogs but were too smart to ask. Among the questions this series premiere answers: ''Can the poodle actually read?'' ''Is the French bulldog the loudest snorer?'' ''Do Labs swim faster than ducks?'' And ''Is the Chihuahua actually related to the fox?''
 8 P.M. (CNN) FIT TO LEAD: THE NEXT PRESIDENT In this ''CNN Presents'' report, Dr. Sanjay Gupta interviews four former presidential press secretaries and three presidential physicians about what it takes to be medically fit for the nation's highest office. He also explores what is publicly known about the health of Senator John McCain and Senator Barack Obama. Ari Fleischer, Joe Lockhart, Ron Nessen, Jody Powell, Kenneth Duberstein, Dr. Rob Darling, Dr. Burton Lee and Dr. Connie Mariano are interviewed.
 8 P.M. (Disney) MOSTLY GHOSTLY (2008) A boy has fantastic adventures when he meets two ghosts in this television film based on books by R. L. Stine. Sterling Beaumon and Ali Lohan, Lindsay's little sister, star.
 8 P.M. (National Geographic) RETURN OF THE WHITE LION Though the white lion is rarely seen in the wild, more than 500 live in captivity. This documentary watches as the Global White Lion Protection Trust tries to release four of them into the Timbavati Private Nature Reserve in South Africa and encounters tragedy.
 8 P.M. (Ovation) THE CAR MAN In the choreographer Matthew Bourne's take on the Bizet opera ''Carmen,'' set in a car-repair garage, the dreams and passions of a Midwestern community are shattered by the arrival of a handsome young stranger.
 9 P.M. (13) OLIVER TWIST (1948) John Howard Davies, near right, stars in the title role, and Alec Guinness is Fagin, in this ''Reel 13'' presentation of David Lean's adaptation of the Dickens classic. In Joel Hopkins's romantic indie ''Jump Tomorrow'' (2001) at 11:05, Tunde Adebimpe (currently in ''Rachel Getting Married'') plays a young Nigerian on his way to an arranged marriage who suddenly balks after encountering a beautiful Latina (Natalia Verbeke) at the Buffalo airport. (That film will also be shown on the Sundance Channel at 7 p.m.)
 9 P.M. (Lifetime) MURDER ON HER MIND (2008) A woman (Annabeth Gish) finds herself bonding with the murderer whose jury she sat on 20 years earlier.
 9 P.M. (Starz) THE WATER HORSE: LEGEND OF THE DEEP (2007) A lonely boy (Alex Etel) finds an unusual egg -- which hatches into a monster resembling a cross between a dinosaur and a snail -- on a Scottish lakeshore in this family-friendly film. Emily Watson and Ben Chaplin co-star.
 KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); DOGS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (75%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); MAMMALS (74%); BAILOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); HISTORY (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); THEATER (57%); STOCK EXCHANGES (51%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (64%); KEIRA KNIGHTLEY (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%); NEIL CAVUTO (53%); JON CORZINE (51%); RON PAUL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



429 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Global Anxiety Catches Up to Japan's Economy

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
A new emotion is gripping Tokyo: fear.
 The world's second-largest economy had seemed enviably immune from the global financial contagion, as its cash-rich banks held little of the subprime debt that contaminated the books of financial institutions in the United States and Europe. Now, there is a growing feeling of foreboding, even panic, seen in Friday's stunning 9.6 percent drop by the benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average -- just two days after the index fell 9.4 percent. 
 Japan is suddenly feeling a lot more vulnerable to the global turmoil, which in recent days has finally begun to show signs of damaging the nation's $5 trillion economy. One of the biggest shocks came on Friday with the sudden bankruptcy of Yamato Life Insurance, a midsize insurer that became the first Japanese financial institution to fall victim to the global financial collapse. 
 On Friday, the sense of dread here was palpable on a Tokyo subway platform, where a small crowd of grim-faced salarymen gathered in stunned silence around a news kiosk to stare at afternoon newspaper headlines. 
 ''Is that the Nikkei?'' one finally asked in disbelief, nodding at one headline that gave the index's morning closing price of about 8,200 -- 25 percent below where it was just a week ago.
 ''I'm going to have to find a part-time job,'' muttered another. ''A new Great Depression is coming.''
 There is fear here that the nation could soon become collateral damage in a financial crisis not of its own making, which seems to be unfolding with surrealistic speed. 
 Even the country's financial industry, which just a week ago was patting itself on the back for escaping the crisis, no longer seems so safe. The collapse of Yamato Life, with $2.7 billion in debts largely from subprime-related investments, raised the specter of similar losses at other smaller financial companies, which have received less scrutiny than the nation's big banks. 
 While the big banks seem healthy, much less attention has been paid, until now, to smaller banks and financial companies, which usually dabble less in foreign markets. On Friday, the Financial Services Agency, Japan's financial watchdog, sought to reassure investors by saying it did not expect the problems at Yamato to extend to the nation's other life insurance companies.
 Still, the collapse spooked investors, as did news reports Friday that the government might set aside $100 billion in case it had to bail out one of the nation's smaller regional banks. The reports ended up fueling speculation that other small financial institutions could also be hiding subprime-related losses, though many stock analysts said this was unlikely. 
 These fears were a main driver behind the panicked selling that pummeled stock prices on Friday. This week's tumble by Tokyo's stock markets wiped out some $700 billion in market value, according to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
 ''Even Japan is not immune,'' said Nobuhiko Kuramochi, a stock analyst at Shinko Securities in Tokyo. ''Confidence has fallen off a cliff.''
 The global credit problem has also begun showing signs of reaching Japan. On Thursday, the New City Residence Investment Corporation, a real estate investment fund, sought bankruptcy protection, saying it was no longer able to borrow enough funds. The failure, the first by a real estate fund here since the subprime crisis began, raised alarm as a sign that the overseas financial problems could be spreading into real estate, a very domestic industry.
 ''The panic and credit crunch had a great influence on the Japanese real estate market,'' the company said in a statement, adding that ''real estate transactions have stagnated.'' 
 The sense of panic has fed a new urgency on the part of government. Prime Minister Taro Aso and other political leaders are rushing to pass an $18 billion stimulus package by next week. And Mr. Aso is already promising a second package, possibly worth $30 billion, to prevent the financial crisis from pushing Japan's slowing economy into full-blown recession.
 Perhaps the biggest fear here is that a recession in the United States could spread to China, depriving Japan of its two biggest overseas markets and stalling Japan's export machine, the main driver of its economy.
 Economists are also warning that falling exports could become a backdoor way for the financial crisis to hurt even Japan's big banks, which lend heavily to industry. A severe downturn could increase bankruptcies and loan defaults among manufacturing companies, saddling banks with growing losses. This would be the opposite of the sequence that occurred in the United States, where ailing banks have stopped lending to other companies, endangering the broader economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Takeo Nakazono, center, president of Yamato Life Insurance, at a conference Friday in Tokyo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO, VIA REUTERS)
 A stock board in Tokyo shows downward movement.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAI KUROWAKA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); LIFE INSURANCE (73%); NEWSSTANDS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%) JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



430 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Swept Up By Insanity Of Markets

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
''I can calculate the motions of heavenly bodies, but not the madness of people.'' -- Isaac Newton, 1721, after the South Sea bubble burst.
 Sometimes I think we must be living in a movie, some kind of nightmarish, upside-down version of ''Back to the Future.'' It can't possibly be that in the sophisticated, computerized 21st century, we find ourselves experiencing the same kind of financial panic -- the same kind of financial insanity, really -- that has dogged mankind at least since the Dutch tulip mania of the 1630s. Can it?
 We look at those other eras -- Dutch tulips and the South Sea bubble, the panics of 1825 and 1907, the crash of 1929 -- and they seem so predictable in retrospect. They were marked by years of speculative excess, by financial innovation that got out of control and by mammoth asset bubbles that seem incredibly obvious in hindsight. There had to be a crash. It was all so unsustainable! Isaac Newton is said to have lost his life's savings during the South Sea bubble. We think to ourselves, ''A smart guy like that should have known better.'' 
 And yet here we are. Iceland is bankrupt. European banks are teetering. Barely a week after the federal government passed a $700 billion rescue plan that revolved around the sale of toxic assets from financial institutions to the government, the Treasury Department announced it would focus its attention on a new plan to inject capital directly into the banks that most needed it. That is now supposed to be the thing that rescues the banking system.
 Every financial instrument relied on by investors -- with the possible exception of Treasury bills -- remains under severe pressure. Credit markets have been frozen all week, with giant multinational banks afraid to lend money to other giant multinational banks. The Japanese stock market dropped 24 percent this week. Panic was everywhere.
 In the United States, the Dow Jones average dropped 370 points on Monday. On Tuesday, it dropped 508 points. Wednesday: 189 points. Thursday: 679 points, including a sickening plunge of more than 450 points in the last hour of trading. And it didn't relent on Friday; although the Dow wound up ''only'' down 128 points, it came after an early 700-point swoon, followed by a brutal whipsaw of a day. It was the worst week in history for the Dow. 
 Someday, when the history books are written, the inevitability of this crash -- following as it did speculative excess, Frankenstein-like financial engineering and a huge asset bubble -- will seem every bit as obvious to future generations as the South Sea crash seems to us.
 So why didn't we know any better? Why do we, as a species, continually have these bouts of financial insanity? This week, with the markets collapsing, that was what I most wanted to understand.
 ''What does humanity ever learn about romance?'' said James Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer and the author of the forthcoming book ''Mr. Market Miscalculates.'' Science, said Mr. Grant, is a discipline that builds cumulatively. Previous knowledge isn't forgotten or cast aside -- it is built upon. But finance isn't like that. 
 ''People keep on stepping on the same rakes because money, like romance, is only partly an intellectual experience,'' Mr. Grant continued. ''Money, like sex, brings out some thought -- but also much heavy breathing and little stored knowledge. In finance, the process is cyclical. Some people learn from their ancestors, but mostly they repeat the same mistakes. Thus it has always been and thus it will always be.''
 Mr. Grant's point, echoed by almost everyone I spoke to, is that it is not just the analytical part of our brain that deals with money, it is also the instinctive, emotional part -- what we like to think of as our gut. A lot of the time, our gut gets it wrong. And that is as true of high-powered investment bankers as it is of mom-and-pop investors. 
 Paul Slovic of the University of Oregon, an expert in the psychology of risk, pointed out that when times are good -- when markets are rising, for instance, and bankers are making millions trading their mortgage-backed securities -- ''the sense of risk is depressed. You don't look as hard for warning signs.'' Robert Shiller, the Yale economist, said, ''One thing we know about human behavior is that our memory is influenced by recent events.'' 
 Thus, when we are living through a housing bubble, it is hard not to be caught up, emotionally, in the idea that prices can only go up -- even though our analytical brain knows that acting on such impulses defies logic. But in the moment, a kind of unshakable euphoria takes over, and we just can't imagine its ever ending. Similarly, when times are bad, fear and loathing capture our imagination, and we find it equally impossible to see a glimmer of hope. We take actions to protect ourselves -- like banks refusing to lend to other banks -- even though these individual actions result in a kind of cumulative madness. That is where we are now.
 William Goetzmann, an economist at Yale who has studied financial panics, told me that after the South Sea bubble burst, people went back to writings and illustrations that were done nearly a century earlier in the wake of tulip mania, trying to understand how they could have made the same mistake. 
 We're now wondering the same thing. But while history may help us understand why financial panics take place, it doesn't do anything to prevent them. The impulses that make us want to forgo the slow and steady for instant riches, that cause us to go along with the crowd instead of bucking it, that allow us to think that this time it's different, instead of understanding that it never is -- these are such basic aspects of human nature that they cannot be changed through study alone. 
 They can be changed only by cold, painful experience. That is what our parents went through during the Depression; they were so scarred by that experience that most of their generation were debt-averse forever after. That is where we are now, too.
 Mr. Shiller, a leader in the field of behavioral economics, believes that bubbles and crashes are a kind of social epidemic. ''Ideas become contagion,'' he said. When housing prices were rising quickly in the early part of this century, he said, ''people misinterpreted the meaning of the price increase. The theory that housing prices could only go up began to sound plausible. It became a thought virus. And people believed it was true rather than realizing it was a thought epidemic.''
 Crashes tend to feed on a similar dynamic, except in reverse. Mr. Shiller did a study of the days leading up to Black Monday in 1987 -- days that also had sharp market drops -- asking people what they were reading and talking about. Invariably, they were reading and talking about the big price drops, which led them to pull money from the market, which led to yet more price drops. ''Exactly the same thing is happening now,'' he said.
 ''At times of crisis, people have an instinctive need to get into a huddle and talk about it with other people,'' he added. ''On the one hand, this creates a sense of community. On the other hand, it amplifies the speed with which news is related.''
 As I was speaking to Mr. Shiller, I suddenly realized I had spent the week in a huddle of my own making. I'm not someone who usually has CNBC on all day -- but I did this week. I needed to hear every rumor and track the market's every move. I called hedge fund managers to hear how they were doing. I saw Jim Chanos, the well-known short-seller, and empathized as he complained about the foolishness of the ban on short-selling. I had dinner in a restaurant and fell into a long discussion about the credit crisis with two complete strangers. So many of my conversations this week began with a kind of resigned acknowledgment of the predicament we're all in.
 Late on Thursday, right after that awful 679-point drop in the Dow, I got an e-mail message from someone I didn't know, a trader and blogger named Karl Denninger. ''We have an extremely serious credit market dislocation about to occur -- like maybe tomorrow,'' he wrote. He asked me to call him. 
 So I did. ''There is a flight of money from the U.S.,'' he said breathlessly. ''We need $2 billion a day in foreign capital to operate our government, and that has mostly come from China and the oil-producing countries. Now that money is leaving. We are going to have a complete lockup of the credit markets within 48 to 72 hours. Everybody is trying to push this off to the election. But we're not going to make it to the election.''
 On Friday, Mr. Shiller told me of a conversation he had with an economist friend of his. The man had spent his entire career advocating the efficient market hypothesis, which posits that all known information about a stock is already priced into it. But with the market in collapse, the economist sold all his stocks. ''I feel like a Christian Scientist who has come down with appendicitis,'' he told Mr. Shiller.
 All around me, I hear the sounds of panic. Some things, it turns out, never change.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Shiller, an economist.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); TOXIC ASSETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (70%); BANK FAILURES (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); STOCK INDEXES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (77%); ICELAND (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



431 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Nicaragua: God Is Punishing U.S.,. President Says

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
President Daniel Ortega Saavedra said the financial crisis was God's way of punishing the United States for trying to impose its economic principles on poor countries. ''It's incredible that in the most powerful country in the world, which spends billions of dollars on brutal wars, people do not have enough money to stay in their homes,'' Mr. Ortega, left, said in a speech late Thursday. ''God is punishing the United States.'' Mr. Ortega first governed Nicaragua in the 1980s when his leftist Sandinista government was locked in a war with conservative contra rebels who were supported by the United States. He was voted back into power in 2006. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); LIBERALISM (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



432 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths FLEISSIG, MORRIS B.

 BODY:
 FLEISSIG--Morris B., at 93. National leader in public housing, urban renewal and city planning. Vice President of Candeub, Fleissig & Associates, the country's largest planning firm in the 1960s. Predeceased by loving wife, Sylvia. Beloved father of Rosalie Friend, Susan Weltman, and Edythe Sparkman, father-in-law of Alan Friend and Steven Jervis, grandfather of Eric Weltman, Josh Sparkman and Julia Friend, greatgrandfather of Zachary Bennett Weltman. A native of the Lower East Side, he was known for love of family and friends and his great concern for social justice. Contributions in his name are welcome to the Center for an Urban Future (www.nycfuture.org) or Jews for Racial and Economic Justice (www.jfrej.org). Services Sunday, October 12, 9:30am, Plaza Jewish Chapel, 90th Street and Amsterdam. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (88%); CITIES (88%); GRANDPARENTS (87%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (86%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



433 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Under Pressure From U.S., NATO Agrees to Take Aim at Afghan Drug Trade

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY and JOHN F. BURNS; Judy Dempsey reported from Budapest, and John F. Burns from Kabul, Afghanistan.

DATELINE: BUDAPEST 

 BODY:
NATO defense ministers agreed Friday to allow troops operating in Afghanistan to attack drug lords and their networks supporting the escalating insurgency in the country.
 The agreement came after strong pressure from the United States, which has identified opium trafficking in Afghanistan -- the source of more than 90 percent of the world's heroin supplies -- as a primary target in the stepped-up battle against the Taliban insurgency that American commanders have begun mapping out in recent weeks.
 But the accord also accommodates objections from some of the 26 NATO nations that contribute troops to the 50,000-strong NATO force. Attacks on drug ''facilities and facilitators supporting the insurgency'' are to occur only if the NATO and Afghan troops involved have the authorization of their own governments, a provision that will allow dissenting nations to opt out of counternarcotics strikes. 
 The compromise appeared to satisfy the two American officials who pushed the case for the new policy at a meeting here, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Gen. John Craddock, the supreme NATO commander. Afterward, Mr. Gates said that the accord would allow ''some to do things that others did not want to do,'' and added, ''It's better than nothing.'' 
 On the drug policy, the United States once again ran into a problem that has beset the Afghan war: the widely-differing levels of commitment by its NATO partners, some of whom have committed troops to the effort, but have insisted that they remain in areas of Afghanistan where insurgent threats are low. Reluctance to widening the NATO mandate to include attacks on drug networks has come from Germany, Italy, Poland and Spain, among other nations. 
 Their fear has been that attacks on drug lords, laboratories and supply networks will further alienate ordinary Afghans who have grown wary or hostile toward NATO troops, undercutting efforts to curb the insurgency and increasing threats to NATO troops. 
 The drug trade is estimated to account for about half of Afghanistan's meager economy, and some of the nation's poorest people, including farmers who toil in the poppy fields, are dependent on incomes that flow directly or indirectly from narcotics. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, in a recent survey on the 2008 opium yield in Afghanistan, estimated that the average income for the 500,000 families involved in the opium harvest amounted to nearly $2,000.
 There have also been concerns that attacks on drug networks will depend heavily on intelligence supplied by Afghans, which has often proved unreliable, contributing to the deaths of civilians in attacks. Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, under pressure from NATO members to rid his government of the corruption and incompetence they say are hampering the war effort, has been increasingly shrill in recent months in his criticism of the civilian toll taken by NATO military action, particularly American airstrikes.
 Mr. Karzai has also opposed the forceful eradication of poppy crops, something that did not appear to be sanctioned by the new NATO mandate. Mr. Karzai has argued that other measures, including crop substitution and public education programs, along with foreign aid that provides jobs, are the most effective ways of cutting opium production without the violence likely to be provoked by crop eradication. 
 But American commanders have concluded that gaining the upper hand in the fight against the resurgent Taliban will require depriving the insurgents of income from the drug trade, which the top American commander in Afghanistan, Gen. David D. McKiernan, estimated at a Washington briefing last week to be a minimum of $100 million. 
 Despite the misgivings among some NATO allies, the American push for a NATO mandate that includes attacks on drug networks fueling the insurgency has been backed by the Afghan government, which reiterated the sentiment at the Budapest meeting.
 The need for more aggressive action against the drug lords has also been pressed by the United Nations drug agency. In its August report, authored by its executive director, Antonio Maria Costa of Italy, it noted the ''inextricable link between drugs and conflict,'' and without referring to or sanctioning military action, said that something needed to be done.
 Beyond that, the American commanders have been supported by Britain, whose 8,000 troops in Afghanistan are second only in numbers, among NATO nations, to the 33,000 American troops. British support is particularly significant, since most of the British troops are concentrated in Helmand Province in the southwest, the heartland of the opium trade and one of the most intensive battlefields of the insurgency. United Nations figures estimate that Helmand alone accounts for more than 50 percent of the country's opium production. 
 According to the recent United Nations survey, 98 percent of Afghanistan's opium comes from seven provinces in the southwest, with no opium at all produced in half of the country's 34 provinces. The bulk of the NATO troops operating in the southwest come from the United States, Britain, Canada and Denmark, and it is those nations that are likely to be most affected by the new NATO mandate.
 Together with the United States, Britain and Canada have already taken the heaviest casualties among the NATO nations fighting the Taliban and Al Qaeda, with NATO troops who have died in the seven-year war now approaching 1,000, including more than 600 Americans. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The United States has identified opium trafficking in Afghanistan as a primary target in the battle against the Taliban, but many poor farmers who toil in the poppy fields, above, depend on it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STANLEY GREENE/NOOR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); DRUG POLICY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); OPIUM (89%); TALIBAN (79%); HEROIN (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); POOR POPULATION (66%); FAMILY (61%); CORRUPTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (73%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



434 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: The Mask Slips

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The lesson for Americans suffused with anxiety and dread over the crackup of the financial markets is that the way you vote matters, that there are real-world consequences when you go into a voting booth and cast that ballot.
 For the nitwits who vote for the man or woman they'd most like to have over for dinner, or hang out at a barbecue with, I suggest you take a look at how well your 401(k) is doing, or how easy it will be to meet the mortgage this month, or whether the college fund you've been trying to build for your kids is as robust as you'd like it to be. 
 Voters in the George W. Bush era gave the Republican Party nearly complete control of the federal government. Now the financial markets are in turmoil, top government and corporate leaders are on the verge of panic and scholars are dusting off treatises that analyzed the causes of the Great Depression.
 Mr. Bush was never viewed as a policy or intellectual heavyweight. But he seemed like a nicer guy to a lot of voters than Al Gore.
 It's not just the economy. While the United States has been fighting a useless and irresponsible war in Iraq, Afghanistan -- the home base of the terrorists who struck us on 9/11 -- has been allowed to fall into a state of chaos. Osama bin Laden is still at large. New Orleans is still on its knees. And so on.
 Voting has consequences.
 I don't for a moment think that the Democratic Party has been free of egregious problems. But there are two things I find remarkable about the G.O.P., and especially its more conservative wing, which is now about all there is.
 The first is how wrong conservative Republicans have been on so many profoundly important matters for so many years. The second is how the G.O.P. has nevertheless been able to persuade so many voters of modest means that its wrongheaded, favor-the-rich, country-be-damned approach was not only good for working Americans, but was the patriotic way to go.
 Remember voodoo economics? That was the derisive term George H.W. Bush used for Ronald Reagan's fantasy that he could simultaneously increase defense spending, cut taxes and balance the budget. After Reagan became president (with Mr. Bush as his vice president) the budget deficit -- surprise, surprise -- soared.
 In a moment of unusual candor, Reagan's own chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Martin Feldstein, gave three reasons for the growth of the deficit: the president's tax cuts, the increased defense spending and the interest on the expanding national debt.
 These were the self-proclaimed fiscal conservatives who were behaving so profligately. The budget was balanced and a surplus realized under Bill Clinton, but soon the ''fiscal conservatives'' were back in the driver's seat. ''Deficits don't matter,'' said Dick Cheney, and the wildest, most reckless of economic rides was on. 
 Americans, including the Joe Sixpacks, soccer moms and hockey moms, were repeatedly told that the benefits lavished on the highfliers would trickle down to them. Someday.
 Just as they were wrong about trickle down, conservative Republican politicians and their closest buddies in the commentariat have been wrong on one important national issue after another, from Social Security (conservatives opposed it from the start and have been trying to undermine it ever since) to Medicare (Ronald Reagan saw it as the first wave of socialism) to the environment, energy policy and global warming.
 When the Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to the discoverers of the link between chlorofluorocarbons and ozone depletion, Tom DeLay, a Republican who would go on to wield enormous power as majority leader in the House, mocked the award as the ''Nobel Appeasement Prize.''
 Mr. Reagan, the ultimate political hero of so many Republicans, opposed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. In response to the historic Brown v. Board of Education school-desegregation ruling, William F. Buckley, the ultimate intellectual hero of so many Republicans, asserted that whites, being superior, were well within their rights to discriminate against blacks.
 ''The White community is so entitled,'' he wrote, ''because, for the time being, it is the advanced race...'' He would later repudiate that sentiment, but only after it was clear that his racist view was harmful to himself.
 The G.O.P. has done a great job masking the terrible consequences of much that it has stood for over the decades. Now the mask has slipped. As we survey the wreckage of the American economy and the real-life suffering associated with the financial crackup of 2008, it would be well for voters to draw upon the lessons of history and think more seriously about the consequences of the ballots they may cast in the future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); IRAQ WAR (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (53%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



435 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P. Waged Class Warfare, and We All Lost

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Class War Before Palin,'' by David Brooks (column, Oct. 10):
 Far worse than the prospect of class warfare is to suddenly wake up to the fact that we've been involved in class warfare for most of the last 40 years, and we've been losing decisively. 
 Can there be any doubt, when virtually all of the economic gains have flowed to those at the very top, while real wages have been stagnant since 1969? 
 Tax cuts that overwhelmingly favored the rich have led to wealth and income being more unequally distributed than at any time since 1929. 
 It is the Republican right that has pursued class warfare relentlessly since the days of Ronald Reagan. It is time that we recognize this and begin to claw back some of the losses we have sustained.
 Terence Stoeckert Hoboken, N.J., Oct. 10, 2008
 The writer is an affiliate professor of economics and finance at Stevens Institute of Technology.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks is right. The anti-intellectualism of the Republicans is astounding. 
 Average Joes and Janes want ideas from people smarter than we are, whether they come from the left or the right. With the recent collapse of our economy, the Bush administration didn't ask ''Joe Sixpack'' for advice, but instead asked the best and the brightest -- I hope. 
 Let's stop the dumbing down of this country.
 Elaine Gallinaro Devon, Pa., Oct. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks seems to acknowledge the blatant failures of the Republican Party -- a party that favors fear-mongering and ignorance, and habitually supports candidates with limited education and worldviews. 
 This has led Republicans and this nation to ruin, and attracts the type of people who yell ''kill'' and ''terrorist'' and racial slurs at campaign rallies. They want a nation that disdains education and frowns on the educated. 
 We call the Navy Seals and Army Rangers ''elite.'' Shouldn't we have someone who is elite, in terms of intellect and judgment, command them? 
 Robert Rundbaken Ossining, N.Y., Oct. 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ARMIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TERRORISM (62%); ARMED FORCES (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



436 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: McCain Draws Line on Attacks as Crowds Cry 'Fight Back'

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Adam Nagourney contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
LAKEVILLE, Minn. -- After a week of trying to portray Senator Barack Obama as a friend of terrorists who would drive the country into bankruptcy, Senator John McCain abruptly changed his tone on Friday and told voters at a town-hall-style meeting that Mr. Obama was ''a decent person'' and a ''family man'' and suggested that he would be an acceptable president should he win the White House.
But moments later, Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee, renewed his attacks on Mr. Obama for his association with the 1960s radical William Ayers and told the crowd, ''Mr. Obama's political career was launched in Mr. Ayers' living room.''
The dizzying statements came on a confused day when Mr. McCain's campaign pounded Mr. Obama as a ''liar'' in an incendiary television commercial about Mr. Ayers and as Mr. McCain abruptly announced another economic policy proposal, this time a plan to suspend mandatory withdrawals from 401(k) retirement accounts. 
The events reflected Mr. McCain's frequently lurching campaign. For the past several weeks, as the polls have shown Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee, gaining increasing ground, Mr. McCain's traveling road show has veered from message to message and from pumping up hostile crowds to trying to calm them down. Each news cycle seems to bring another tactic as the campaign appears to be trying anything and everything to see what might work.
His temporary embrace of Mr. Obama came as Mr. McCain was repeatedly implored by voters at the town-hall-style meeting to ''fight back'' against Mr. Obama at the next presidential debate, on Wednesday, and to stop him from becoming president. But unlike at an earlier town-hall-style meeting this week in Wisconsin, where Mr. McCain sharply agreed with voters who urged him to punch back, this time he drew a line.
When a man told him he was ''scared'' of an Obama presidency, Mr. McCain replied, ''I want to be president of the United States and obviously I do not want Senator Obama to be, but I have to tell you -- I have to tell you -- he is a decent person and a person that you do not have to be scared'' of ''as president of the United States.'' The crowd booed loudly at Mr. McCain's response.
Later, a woman stood up at the meeting, held at Lakeville South High School in a far suburb of Minneapolis, and told Mr. McCain that she could not trust Mr. Obama because he was an ''Arab.''
Mr. McCain replied: ''No, ma'am, he's a decent family man, citizen who I just happen to have disagreements with on fundamental issues. And that's what this campaign is all about.'' At that, the crowd applauded.
Mr. McCain and his campaign have been harshly criticized this week by Mr. Obama, Democrats, some Republicans and a number of columnists, commentators and editorial writers for stoking angry crowds at rallies, particularly those in which Mr. McCain appears with his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska.
Crowds in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania have repeatedly booed Mr. Obama and yelled ''off with his head,'' and at a rally in Florida where Ms. Palin appeared without Mr. McCain, The Washington Post reported that a man yelled out ''kill him.'' At the same rally, a racial insult was hurled at an African-American television cameraman.
Representative Elijah E. Cummings, a Maryland Democrat, said Friday in an interview that he was surprised that neither Mr. McCain nor Ms. Palin had reacted, either by chastising audience members or discussing the events later. ''It concerns me greatly when people come to the point where they take a political race, a race for president, and holler out words like 'kill him,' '' he said. ''I just think our country is so much better than that.''
At the same time, Mr. McCain's advisers sought to minimize the impact of those images of angry voters that have repeatedly been broadcast on television in the last two days.
''I don't think it's that big a deal,'' Rick Davis, Mr. McCain's campaign manager, told reporters in a conference call on Friday. ''I think political rallies have always attracted people who have an emotional connection to the outcome of an election.''
Nicolle Wallace, one of Mr. McCain's senior aides, tried to turn the tables on Mr. Obama on Friday and accuse him of denigrating the people who go to Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin's rallies. ''Broadsides against our supporters are insulting,'' she said. ''He attacks the same people he once called bitter.''
Within the campaign, there is a difference of opinion on the attacks, and some of Mr. McCain's closest advisers have felt he should also criticize Mr. Obama for his ties to his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. But they say Mr. McCain believes that if he does so, he will be accused of racism.
''I personally believe that Jeremiah Wright is a legitimate issue to bring up,'' one of Mr. McCain's top advisers said. ''But the candidate is refusing to do that out of an abundance of caution.''
Mr. McCain appeared far more cheerful and relaxed at the town-hall-style meeting in Lakeville than he has at any other recent campaign event. He smiled broadly, laughed easily and told a number of well-worn jokes from similar forums of a year ago. He kept the event going for more than an hour, even after his aides said it was time to bring it to a close.
But although the crowd was not as large and angry as previous crowds -- Ms. Palin appears to attract greater numbers of frustrated voters -- Mr. McCain at numerous points had to try to tone down the intensity.
At one point, after a voter told him he wanted to see a ''real fight'' at the debate and the crowd responded with a roar, Mr. McCain replied, ''We want to fight, and I will fight, but we will be respectful.''
Then he added, ''I admire Senator Obama and his accomplishments, I will respect him.'' The crowd interrupted Mr. McCain to boo, but he kept talking. ''I want everyone to be respectful and let's make sure we are, because that's the way politics should be conducted in America.''
At that point, the crowd applauded.
Correction: October 13, 2008, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about the changing tactics of Senator John McCain's campaign misstated, in some editions, Mr. McCain's reaction to a woman's comment at his rally in Lakeville, Minn., that Senator Barack Obama was not trustworthy because he was an ''Arab.'' Mr. McCain told the woman, ''No Ma'am, he's a decent family man, citizen.'' Mr. McCain did not fail to respond to the woman's accusation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John McCain and supporters at a rally on Friday in La Crosse, Wis. The tone of his campaign has veered back and forth as Barack Obama has gained ground.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); US 401K PLANS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (78%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



437 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Swings in the Market and Our Moods

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Another Afternoon Turns Dark as Worry Sends Stocks Plunging'' (front page, Oct. 10): 
 I don't own much stock, but I am aghast as I watch Wall Street continue its free fall. 
 Let's all remember what President Franklin D. Roosevelt said during the Great Depression: ''The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.'' 
 Please, everyone, stop behaving like stampeding cattle. Your fear, which is infectious, is causing the American economy to move toward the edge of a cliff. 
 Just calm down, and stop selling your stock. As soon as the stock market stabilizes, you will realize that everything is going to be O.K. Lisa Lipshires 
 Greenfield, Mass., Oct. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 ''Taking a Hard New Look at a Greenspan Legacy'' (''The Reckoning'' series, front page, Oct. 9) notes that Alan Greenspan has responded to criticism of financial contracts known as derivatives by saying that the problem is not that contracts failed, but that people got greedy. 
 This separation of markets and the people who make them is stunning. Markets are not inanimate cyborgs; they are expressions of human will and self-interest. One does not regulate markets, institutions and financial instruments; one regulates the human beings who make the markets, who oversee the institutions and who sell the financial instruments.
 Mr. Greenspan (and our present-day economy) would have been better served had Mr. Greenspan heeded the lessons of William Golding's ''Lord of the Flies'' rather than being an acolyte of Ayn Rand's ''Fountainhead.''
 K. J. Erickson
 Minneapolis, Oct. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Alan Greenspan now says that the problem is the lack of integrity of those who bought and sold derivatives, not a problem with the product itself. 
 The real problem is that we believe in verification and oversight in almost every other realm of activity except, apparently, our investment markets. We require oversight of the safety of our pharmaceuticals, oversight of nuclear capability development worldwide, random audits of individual tax returns and covert surveillance of our potential adversaries.
 Yet we gave the financial market a blank check. Do we really think those people are more moral and have more integrity than anyone else? 
 Anita Badrock
 Chapel Hill, N.C., Oct. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 You paraphrase Alan Greenspan's viewpoint on derivatives as ''not that the contracts failed'' but that ''the people using them got greedy.''
 Mr. Greenspan's anti-regulation stance sounds to me a lot like ''Guns don't kill people. People kill people'' and makes as little sense. Daniel Heyman
 Hartsdale, N.Y., Oct. 9, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''U.S. May Take Ownership Stake in Banks to Ease Credit Crisis'' (front page, Oct. 9): 
 There is a precedent for federal government ownership of equity in commercial banks. Since 1996, the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, a very small unit within the Treasury Department, has used its authority to purchase stock in banks. 
 The fund makes investments on a competitive basis into financial institutions certified as C.D.F.I.'s that primarily serve economically distressed markets. About 60 of the 800 or so certified C.D.F.I.'s are banks. 
 When such investments are made in banks, it is in the form of nonvoting, but redeemable, shares. Selected banks often have to create a new category of equity to accommodate the Treasury limitations on its ownership. 
 The selected entities, including banks, use the investment to support the targeting of loans that stimulate economic activity. The certified banks are small; the largest has about $2 billion in assets, and most are much smaller than that. 
 Up to now, the fund is the only government entity with an ownership, albeit noncontrolling, stake in commercial banks. Fredric C. Cooper 
 Silver Spring, Md., Oct. 9, 2008
 The writer worked at the C.D.F.I. Fund from 1996 to 2003 and served as its deputy director for policy and programs.
 To the Editor:
 ''A Fool's Paradise,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Oct. 7), is on the mark in proposing that the government address the problem of rising unemployment.
 The financial aspects of the American economic fiasco get all the attention, rather than the real foundations of the economy. 
 The lessons of Keynesian economics have been taken over by ideologically driven theories that do not serve the country well. It seems clear that monetary policy is now rendered ineffectual because of the ''liquidity trap'' -- confirmed by the absence of a favorable reaction to the Federal Reserve's monetary expansion. 
 It is now time for the federal government to adopt a Keynesian fiscal policy, including a crash program to develop alternative sources of energy and grants to the states to finance infrastructure construction. Such an approach would be so much more effective in reducing unemployment than a policy of tax rebates, which, as the previous rebates demonstrated, get spent on imported goods and repayment of credit card debt without much effect on real economic activity. Peggy B. Musgrave 
 Santa Cruz, Calif., Oct. 9, 2008
 The writer is professor emerita of economics at the University of California, Santa Cruz.
 To the Editor:
 In ''An Economy You Can Bank On'' (Op-Ed, Oct. 10), Casey B. Mulligan asks, ''How harmful would it be to wait nine more months for a new car or an addition to your house?''
 I spoke to a local contractor on Tuesday who told me he had received four calls over the last two weeks from clients canceling scheduled renovations. These jobs would have kept him and his crew busy and employed through the spring of 2009. 
 With his current job coming to an end in a few weeks, he is scrambling to find work to fill the void.
 So I suppose the answer to Professor Mulligan's question will depend on whom you ask. Jeff Porter 
 Westport, Conn., Oct. 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



438 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS TACTICS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: No More Mr. Un-Nice Guy?

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
Minnesota's highly competitive race for the Senate took another twist Friday when Senator Norm Coleman, the Republican incumbent trying to hold off his Democratic challenger, Al Franken, below right, announced that he was ordering all of his negative campaign advertising off the air. 
It is a risky move given that it could leave Mr. Coleman, below center, who has fallen behind in at least one poll, unable to level criticism at his opponent, the former comedy writer and radio talk show host. But it could also pay dividends given that Minnesota voters have been bombarded with negative advertisements from both candidates and independent groups and are no doubt tired of them, particularly with the financial crisis spreading.
''At times like this, politics should not add to negativity -- it should lift people up with hope and a confident vision for the future,'' Mr. Coleman said at a news conference, citing the economic turmoil as his reason for the switch.
In a statement, Andy Barr, a spokesman for Mr. Franken, said: ''Given that this week's polls are clearly showing that Minnesotans are sick of Norm Coleman's campaign of character assassination, today's stunt rings as a cynical ploy designed to change the subject and avoid scrutiny of his own record. It's like an arsonist burning down every house in the village and then asking to be named fire chief.''CARL HULSE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN KLOTZBACH/POST-BULLETIN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); ARSON (65%)

PERSON: NORM COLEMAN (90%); AL FRANKEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



439 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Attacking Obama's Associations

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The Republican National Committee began running an advertisement called ''Chicago Way'' on Friday in Indiana, a traditionally Republican state where Senator Barack Obama is showing strength, and Wisconsin, which has gone narrowly for Democrats in recent elections but which Senator John McCain is trying to win.
 PRODUCER On Message Inc. 
 SCRIPT A man says: ''The Chicago Way. Shady politics. That's Barack Obama's training. His teachers? Tony Rezko, convicted of corruption, money laundering, aiding and abetting bribery. Rezko got Obama in on a shady land deal. William Daley, heir to the Chicago machine, a top Obama adviser. And William Ayers, leader of a terrorist group that bombed the U.S. Capitol. Obama's first campaign was launched at a gathering at Mr. Ayers's home. There's more you need to know. The Republican National Committee is responsible for the content of this advertising.''
 ON THE SCREEN A red neon sign saying ''The Chicago Way'' flickers to life above a black and white photograph of the city's skyline. The words ''Barack Obama'' zoom into the shot. The scene cuts to a shot of cobblestone pavement with feet walking, casting long shadows. A picture captioned ''Tony Rezko'' appears, and a citation drops saying, ''Rezko convicted of corruption,'' followed by another that says, ''Obama and his Rezko ties.'' A picture captioned ''political boss William Daley'' appears. A picture captioned ''Fmr. terrorist William Ayers'' appears, joined by a picture of Mr. Obama, and text saying ''Obama's first campaign was launched ... at Mr. Ayers's home.'' The pictures disappear, and the words ''There's more you need to know'' appear.
 ACCURACY Although he has been criticized for his ties to Mr. Rezko, who raised money for his past campaigns, Mr. Obama has never been implicated in any wrongdoing connected to him. The ''land deal'' referred to took place in 2005, before Mr. Rezko was indicted, when Mr. Rezko's wife bought an empty lot adjacent to the house the Obamas were buying, and later sold it to them. Mr. Obama later called the transaction ''boneheaded.'' The reference to Mr. Daley is puzzling. When Mr. Daley was commerce secretary in the Clinton administration, he was praised by none other than Mr. McCain, who was then chairman of the Senate commerce committee. And the effort to tie Mr. Obama to Mr. Ayers is overstated. Mr. Ayers, who is now an education professor in Chicago, did host a coffee for Mr. Obama's first run for office, and serve with him on a charitable board, but the two men do not appear to have been close, and Mr. Obama does not appear to have expressed sympathy for Mr. Ayers's past radical actions.
 SCORECARD With Mr. McCain and Republicans slipping in the polls as the economic crisis spreads, they have begun to attack Mr. Obama's character in the hope of, as one McCain adviser put it, ''turning the page on the financial crisis.'' But such a tactic carries its own risks because Mr. McCain is not without his own questionable associations. As a member of the Keating Five in the 1980s, he was rebuked by the Senate for ''poor judgment'' after he met with regulators investigating one of his major political donors, Charles H. Keating Jr., who later went to prison after his savings and loan collapsed, at great cost to taxpayers. There is also the risk that such attacks will be seen as petty at a time of a national economic crisis. MICHAEL COOPER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); BRIBERY (75%); TERRORISM (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); INDICTMENTS (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



440 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: McCain Offers Plan To Suspend 401(k) Rule

BYLINE: By SARAH WHEATON and LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Senator John McCain proposed on Friday that investors should be given a temporary reprieve from a rule forcing them to withdraw from their 401(k)'s and I.R.A.'s after the age of 70, so that they might be shielded from the devastating plunge of the stock market in recent weeks. 
 The staggering decline in stocks has devastated the retirement holdings of many Americans, posing a particular threat to those nearing retirement age. Because investors over age 70 1/2 are required to begin withdrawing from their retirement accounts, they are being forced to sell their stocks at substantial losses. 
 ''We have to protect those who currently rely on their investments for retirement,'' Mr. McCain said at a rally in La Crosse, Wis. ''Current rules mandate that investors must begin to sell off their I.R.A.'s and 401(k)'s when they reach age 70 1/2. To spare investors from being forced to sell their stocks at just the time the market is hurting the most, those rules should be suspended.''
 Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Mr. McCain's top economic adviser, said that under the plan, the government would waive for one year rules requiring people to begin withdrawing parts of their 401(k)'s and other retirement plans. The mandatory withdrawals are based on an investor's life expectancy, and the rate of withdrawal increases each year. So at age 70 1/2, the annual distribution is about 4 percent of the value of the retirement plan; at age 80, the rate is about 5 percent.
 But what can make the requirement burdensome in the current financial crisis is that withdrawals being made now are based on an account's value on Dec. 31, 2007, when accounts were most likely worth much more, said Roberton Williams, a principal research associate at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center.
 ''It's not exactly onerous to say, 'You've got to get 4 percent out,' '' Mr. Williams said. ''On the other hand, if your portfolio has dropped by half, you have to take out twice as much.''
 Campaigning in Ohio, Senator Barack Obama also put forth a proposal to deal with the economic crisis, urging a rescue plan in which the Small Business Administration would lend directly to small businesses that are cut off from other sources of loans. The plan would provide fixed-rate loans to help businesses meet operating expenses, make short-term investments and refinance existing debt.
 Mr. Obama called for the S.B.A. to increase guarantees on private loans and reduce borrowing fees in order to unfreeze credit markets that have retreated from extending loans to small businesses. A final provision calls for additional tax incentives for small businesses to spur investment and job creation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); US 401K PLANS (91%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (86%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (84%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



441 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: In Final Months in Office, Bush Is Burdened but Still Confident

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
George W. Bush began his presidency with the worst terrorist attack on American soil and he is ending it with the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. In between, he confronted a hurricane that nearly wiped New Orleans off the map as his administration showed ineptitude in its response.
 Now, as he spends his last months in office trying to avert a global economic collapse, Mr. Bush has been telling people privately that it's a good thing he's in charge.
 ''He said that if it was going to happen at all, he was glad it was happening under his presidency, because he had a good group of people in D.C. working for him,'' Dru Van Steenberg, one of several small-business owners who met with Mr. Bush in San Antonio earlier this week. The president expressed the same sentiment, others said, during a similar private session in Chantilly, Va., the next day. 
 ''He said that whoever was going to take over in January was going to have a huge crisis on their hands the day they come into office,'' Ms. Van Steenberg added. ''He thought by this happening now, that perhaps everyone could see signs of improvement before the next president comes into office.''
 Mr. Bush will spend Saturday as the host of an extraordinary emergency meeting of international finance ministers at the White House. For him, the economic turmoil is the financial equivalent of 9/11 -- a bookend to a presidency that has grappled with challenges brought on by terrorists, Mother Nature and two long-running wars. No longer will Iraq be the sole determinant of the Bush legacy; now the president's fate is tied up in the economy as much as the war.
 Mr. Bush has always been confident of himself, even when the American public was not, and that has not changed. Just as he is convinced he did the right thing in Iraq, he is convinced he is doing the right thing on the economy -- despite job approval ratings at historic lows and a presidential campaign in which both candidates have used him as kind of a battering ram.
 ''He seems burdened, and he seems confident,'' said David Guernsey, the owner of Guernsey Office Products, who hosted the Chantilly, Va., session. ''He seems sort of like a guy who's saying, 'Boy, I'm kind of winding this thing down and now this happens, so the next four months are going to be anything but quiet.' But he seemed very confident that what Bernanke and Paulson and that crowd have put together is the fix.''
 Even if burdened, he also has the lightness of a man who knows the burden will soon be lifted. At a closed-door fund-raiser in St. Louis last Friday night, Mr. Bush was humorous and relaxed, said John C. Danforth, the former senator from Missouri, who was there. The president sounded a note about ''tough times,'' in reference to the economy, and ''seemed relieved'' that his presidency was nearly over, Mr. Danforth said.
 ''It was very unusual, I thought,'' Mr. Danforth said. ''I think it was a man who was relaxed and funny and looked as though he was about to shed this burden of the presidency. In a way, his speech seemed kind of like a valedictory. I took it as though, 'I've done the best I can, I think I made the right decisions and now it's almost over.' ''
 The White House declined to discuss Mr. Bush's private appearances. ''This is typical New York Times nonsensical pseudo-analysis,'' Tony Fratto, the deputy White House press secretary, said in an e-mail message.
 From the outset of the financial crisis, Mr. Bush has sought to use his public platform to lay out the gravity of the situation, and to offer reassurance to jittery markets and a nervous public. But while he was able to persuade a skeptical Congress to pass a $700 billion financial rescue package, he has since had to confront what he described in the Rose Garden on Friday, as ''a startling drop in the stock market -- much of it driven by uncertainty and fear.''
 In Virginia, Mr. Guernsey and his fellow business owners told Mr. Bush he needed to do a better job of allaying those fears, and urged him to ''share your optimism'' by explaining precisely why he thought the $700 billion package would work. The president, Mr. Guernsey said, told them he was waiting for more specifics, such as precisely how the government would buy distressed mortgage assets.
 ''We made suggestions to him like, 'Describe this thing in detail, bring it to a level we can understand,' '' Mr. Guernsey recalled. ''He said, 'You're absolutely right, I need to do that, I will do that. But right now we're in the throes of working out the mechanics.' He said, 'When I explain this to people, it can't be merely cosmetic. It's got to have substance.' ''
 After the private session, Mr. Bush delivered a speech in the company warehouse and took the unusual step of fielding questions from the audience. The questions were plaintive and personal; Mr. Bush was asked if bank deposits were safe (yes, up to $250,000, he said) and if retirement accounts would suffer (yes, he said, at least in the short term).
 Mr. Bush was plaintive and personal as well. ''I wish I could snap my fingers,'' he said at one point, ''and make what happened stop.''
 But as the markets have grown more volatile in recent days, Mr. Bush seems well aware that he will be dealing with this crisis for the rest of his time in office. ''We got a couple more hard months to go,'' he said last weekend in Midland, Tex., during a visit to his boyhood home. 
 After a particularly challenging presidency, Mr. Bush clearly views himself as battle-tested in a way a new president could not possibly match. On Monday in San Antonio, sipping a chocolate malt at an old-fashioned lunch counter called the Olmos Pharmacy, Mr. Bush said so outright -- though not within earshot of reporters waiting outside.
 ''He said, 'I can't imagine what it would be like to be brand new and have to deal with this,' '' said Mark Cross, the general manager of an auto dealership, who attended the private session. ''I asked him 'Are you anxious to get back to Texas?' He said, 'I am, but I've got a lot of work to do.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush referred on Friday to ''a startling drop in the stock market -- much of it driven by uncertainty and fear.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); FUNDRAISING (60%); SMALL BUSINESS (54%)

COMPANY: GUERNSEY OFFICE PRODUCTS INC (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



442 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: RICH NATIONS PUSHING JOINT RESCUE; G.M. AND CHRYSLER EXPLORE MERGER

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Edmund L. Andrews and Carl Hulse contributed reporting from Washington, and Eric Dash from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States and six other nations that are among the world's richest agreed on Friday to a coordinated plan to rescue the financial industry, but fell short of offering concrete steps to backstop bank lending on a day when fear tightened its grip on investors from Wall Street to Hong Kong.
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said the United States would move aggressively on one part of the plan by infusing American banks directly with cash and taking ownership stakes in return.
In the five-point plan, issued after finance ministers met at the Treasury Department, the Group of 7 countries broadly endorsed the idea of taking ownership positions in banks -- a strategy first adopted by Britain and now emerging as a major part of the rescue effort in the United States. 
But the nations were vague on how or when that will happen, and did not endorse a proposal by Britain to provide coordinated guarantees of lending between banks, as a way to shake loose credit markets.
The attempt at coordination came at the end of one of the worst weeks in the history of Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 18 percent for the week, and wildly swung more than 1,000 points on Friday alone before settling down 128 points, or 1.5 percent.
Many investors had hoped the meeting of the finance ministers from the world's leading economies would result in more concrete steps to restore the paralyzed credit markets, and lay out a blueprint for recapitalizing banks.
''This fell short,'' said Adam Posen, the deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''It all seems to be moving toward direct injection of capital, but why aren't they just saying it?''
Mr. Paulson said the seven countries -- the United States, Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Canada and Japan -- had committed themselves to five principles, ranging from preventing the failure of important banks to protecting the bank deposits of savers.
''People came together,'' Mr. Paulson said at a news conference, noting that the diplomatic language of such communiques had been replaced by a plan ''that's different, that's to the point, that's powerful.''
Treasury officials said the United States may embark on direct injections of capital into banks within the next two weeks, even earlier than the government plans to begin buying distressed assets from banks under the bailout plan that President Bush signed just over a week ago.
Mr. Paulson said hopes for a grand global solution were naive, given the differences among countries. Indeed, other finance ministers had tried to reduce expectations for the meeting.
''Don't imagine that we'll have a harmonized response that will be the same for everybody because you can't apply the same method to different market situations,'' the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, said earlier in the day.
The Group of 7 session was one of a flurry of meetings in conference rooms from the Federal Reserve to the International Monetary Fund at which officials discussed potential remedies for the financial system. The timing was fortuitous: the world's financial elite had gathered in Washington for the annual meetings of the monetary fund and the World Bank.
But the pageantry and parties that normally characterize this gathering have been replaced by an atmosphere of high drama and deep gravity -- a 21st century echo of Bretton Woods, the 1944 conference in New Hampshire at which the Allies fashioned the financial institutions of the postwar era.
The discussions on Friday focused on the growing likelihood that the United States and several major European countries would have to partially nationalize their banking systems.
Germany remains deeply reluctant about such a course, according to people with knowledge of the German position, because of fears that it would end up bailing out the banks of its neighbors.
Such a step would have been unlikely here a week ago, too, but the swiftness of events is forcing officials to throw out decades of conventional wisdom about how free markets should operate.
Events also seem to have upended the Treasury's plan to stabilize the financial system by buying billions of dollars of troubled assets from the banks -- a plan that Mr. Paulson and his Treasury Department colleagues expended enormous energy designing and selling to a skeptical Congress.
''The original Paulson plan didn't hit the nail on the head,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, an economist at Harvard and an adviser to the Republican presidential candidate, John McCain. ''It's one thing to go back to Congress six months later and say 'I didn't ask for enough.' It's another to go back after six days and say 'I didn't ask for enough.' ''
The Treasury has been soliciting feedback about capital injections from Wall Street chief executives, top hedge fund managers, and other big investors, according to a senior banker briefed on the proposal.
One message the industry has given officials is that their plan should help strong banks, rather than save deeply troubled ones. They have suggested tying the eligibility for a government investment to a bank's so-called Camel rating -- a measure used by regulators to grade an institution's financial strength. Only banks in the highest-rated categories would qualify for support.
Another suggestion is for regulators to effectively halt dividend payments for all banks in which the government injects capital, this banker said. This would help remove the stigma of lowering the dividend, and keep about $55 billion a year from leaking out of the banking system.
The United States and Germany appear to be the pivotal players in determining whether recapitalizing banks becomes a global standard, given that Britain has already adopted such a plan, and France, Italy and Japan generally support it. Japan recapitalized its banks after a financial crisis in the 1990s.
Before the meeting, Italy's finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, criticized a draft of the communique, saying it was too weak, and threatened not to sign it. The final text was very different, he said.
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy raised eyebrows earlier in the day, with a call for countries to shut their financial markets while the authorities drafted new rules for the financial system -- a suggestion that was rebuffed by the White House and later disavowed by Mr. Berlusconi himself.
While the leaders managed to paper over any rifts by the time they emerged from their meeting, their lack of agreement on a British-style guarantee of loans made between banks worried economists.
If other countries do not follow the same course as Britain, they said, it could destabilize the financial system, because money may flow to Britain from countries without those same guarantees.
''You now have the full faith and credit of the British government standing behind the banking system,'' said Barry Eichengreen, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley. ''The British could suck deposits from continental Europe and even the United States.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE--GETTY IMAGES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Ben S. Bernanke, left, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Henry M. Paulson Jr. met Friday in Washington with finance ministers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) CHART: Each vertical line represents a weekly increase or decrease in the Dow Jones industrial average. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); HONG KONG (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



443 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: For Karl Rove, a Busy New Career and a 'Rovian' Legacy

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Karl Rove has inspired a generation of Republican imitators, Democratic vilifiers and, in this election, a term that has reached full-on political buzzword status: ''Rovian.''
 As in, this presidential campaign has been rife with ''Rovian tactics'' in recent days. This essentially means aggressive tactics -- or dirty, in the view of Democrats, who use the term often, and not lovingly. 
 ''John McCain has gone Karl Rovian,'' Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. said at a recent campaign stop, a variation on a standard stump line from Senator Barack Obama's running mate. 
 Karl Rove, of course, is the revered and reviled Republican maestro who has become ubiquitous in his new career as a commentator, columnist and conversation-starter. He left the Bush administration 13 months ago, yet continues to loom over a campaign that has become the backdrop for his post-White House reinvention. 
 On Fox News after Tuesday's presidential debate, Mr. Rove said Gov. Sarah Palin had done a ''very good job'' of bringing up Mr. Obama's past associations to the 1960s-era radical William Ayers, a guilt-by-association tactic that many Democrats decried, naturally, as ''Rovian.'' Last weekend, Mr. Rove said on his Web site, Rove.com, that Mr. Obama, based on a compilation of recent polling, would win 273 electoral votes -- enough to defeat Senator John McCain if the election were held then. While polls had shown the momentum swinging to Mr. Obama, to hear the so-called architect of the Bush presidency saying so was deemed a watershed development among political insiders. 
 ''His name seems as pervasive now as it ever was,'' Dan Bartlett, the former senior counselor to President Bush, said of Mr. Rove. 
 Indeed he does -- even though the patron with whom Mr. Rove will always be tied, Mr. Bush, owns some of the lowest presidential-approval ratings ever; even though the ''Republican realignment'' Mr. Rove once envisioned seems a far-off fantasy.
 But Mr. Rove's lingering impact, perceived power and even his bogyman status continue to place him in great demand, forming the basis of his lucrative post-White House career as a reported seven-figure author, six-figure television commentator and mid-five-figure speaker. 
 He was in Philadelphia on Monday for a ''debate'' with former Senator Max Cleland, the Georgia Democrat who lost an arm and two legs in Vietnam. Mr. Cleland lost his 2002 re-election bid after his Republican opponent, Saxby Chambliss, questioned his commitment to domestic security, running an advertisement featuring likenesses of Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein. Many Democrats remain bitter over that defeat, for which Mr. Cleland still largely blames Mr. Rove.
 ''It's a source of income for me,'' Mr. Cleland said of the Monday joint appearance, sponsored by an insurance trade group, for which he said he was paid $15,000. (Mr. Rove's speeches reportedly bring $40,000.) 
 Going up against Mr. Rove, Mr. Cleland said, ''is like going up against the devil himself.''
 It can pay to be the devil himself, or at least thought of that way. ''There is an incredible amount of interest in what Karl Rove has to say,'' said Howard Wolfson, an adviser to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential campaign, who appears with Mr. Rove on Fox News. 
 Mr. Wolfson said he was amazed by how often Democrats asked him what Mr. Rove was like off the air. ''When I say he's nice, people look at me like I'm nuts,'' he said.
 Mr. Rove declined an interview for this article, but engaged somewhat by e-mail. He said little on the record, ignored some questions and was dismissive of others. ''Look,'' he wrote, ''I don't mean to be rude but I have so much on my plate that my brain explodes when you ask questions like how much of my time I spend on each of my activities or how did I apply skills to my new chapter, et cetera. I can answer simple questions of fact but I am stretched through the election.''
 But it clearly delights him, for instance, that Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts went on about ''the smears of Karl Rove'' during his speech at the Democratic National Convention in August. Mr. Rove helpfully pasted a passage from Mr. Kerry's speech on Rove.com, under the headline ''The Losers Have Spoken.''
 Two top McCain campaign aides, Steve Schmidt and Nicolle Wallace, worked closely with Mr. Rove in the White House and are commonly referred to as ''Rove proteges,'' a designation that both dispute. Mr. McCain's top advisers shudder at the perception that Mr. Rove is calling shots for their campaign -- in part because his reputation is toxic among many swing voters, and perhaps the best-known victim of ''Rovian'' hardball tactics was Mr. McCain himself in the 2000 Republican primary campaign. 
 People close to Mr. Rove said he was determined to leave his mark on this race through public channels. He prepares diligently for his television appearances, and sprinkles his commentaries with the kind of wonkery that goes well beyond the repertoire of most talking heads. (''The Urban Institute and the Brookings Institutions did a study of the Obama tax plan,'' Mr. Rove said on Fox's ''Hannity and Colmes'' after the Tuesday debate. ''The top 5 percent will pay $131 billion more in taxes.'')
 Shortly after Mr. Rove left the Bush administration, the Washington lawyer Robert B. Barnett negotiated contracts for Mr. Rove -- as a paid speaker, as an author, as a Fox News commentator and as a columnist for Newsweek and The Wall Street Journal.
 Rove.com provides listings of Mr. Rove's television appearances and columns, an outlet for Mr. Rove to respond to attacks against him in the news media and a place in which he links to articles about himself. ''Karl tends to follow what is being said about him, somewhat obsessively I think,'' said Scott McClellan, a former White House spokesman under Mr. Bush.
 Likewise, Mr. Rove's public words are closely scoured for hidden meaning. He recently said on Fox News that Mr. McCain's campaign should be doing more to connect Mr. Obama to the former executives of the fallen lending giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The next day, Mr. McCain's campaign released an advertisement doing just that. 
 ''Is John McCain's campaign taking political directives on how to handle the economic crisis from Karl Rove?'' asked the columnist Sam Stein, writing for The Huffington Post. 
 Political strategists and analysts note the telltale ''Rovian'' influences on the McCain campaign, especially since Mr. Schmidt was given day-to-day authority in July. The campaign has taken a more aggressive tack against Mr. Obama and developed a sharper rapid-response apparatus, said Ed Rollins, a longtime Republican strategist. (''Very Rove,'' Mr. Rollins said.) 
 Over the summer, the McCain campaign embarked on the classic Rovian strategy of taking an opponent's perceived strength -- in the case of Mr. Obama, his international popularity and ability to draw big crowds -- and tried to turn it into a liability, likening Mr. Obama to Britney Spears and Paris Hilton. 
 ''Karl Rove might not be the architect anymore, but he certainly left a set of blueprints in the room,'' said Donna Brazile, the Democratic strategist and a friend of Mr. Rove, conveying a mixture of suspicion and admiration.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Karl Rove and President Bush in a moment of emotion in August 2007 after Mr. Rove announced that he was leaving the post of White House political adviser to Mr. Bush. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. Rove with Senator John McCain, a bitter Bush rival in the 2000 campaign for the Republican presidential nomination who went on to campaign for the Bush-Cheney ticket in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS)
 With Senator Barack Obama, in January 2005, when Mr. Obama and other newly elected members of Congress attended a reception in their honor in the East Room of the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



444 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Meeting on Crisis, Executives Say High Taxes Hinder City's Economy

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
As traders on Friday morning prepared for another gut-wrenching day on the trading floor downstairs, the leaders of many of New York City's largest companies gathered at the New York Stock Exchange to discuss how they and government officials should respond to the financial crisis. 
 There were differences of opinions, but all seemed to agree that now was not the time to raise taxes or impose new regulations on their businesses. 
 The chief executives who spoke at the meeting, which was organized by the Partnership for New York City and The Wall Street Journal, were also reluctant about predicting that New York would remain the world's financial hub after this crisis runs its course.
 James L. Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said high taxes discourage companies from hiring here. ''New York tries to tax everything we do around the world,'' he said. ''If you have a choice where you put a job, it will not be here. That's a terrible thing to say.''
 Mr. Dimon, who runs one of the world's biggest banks, said he did not know how severe the recession would be. But he warned that times were going ''to get very tough'' in the city and called for the mayor and governor to pare their budgets. ''New York will be the center of the U.S. financial system, but it's not clear that it will be the center of the world's financial system,'' he said.
 Both the city and state are facing sharp decreases in revenue and have raised the possibility of increasing taxes to close widening budget shortfalls.
 City Hall was represented at the gathering by Robert C. Lieber, the deputy mayor for economic development. 
 Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of News Corp., which owns the Journal, sat at the front table, flanked by Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Thomas P. DiNapoli, the state comptroller. Eric R. Dinallo, superintendent of the state insurance department, and Richard H. Neiman, the state superintendent of banks, also attended.
 Mr. Dimon also cited the American legal system as a deterrent to attracting foreign investment and companies seeking to raise money. But he said the immediate priority had to be fixing the financial system, so companies like his could return to lending to businesses and consumers.
 ''No financial company can borrow money to make a car loan and make a profit, so they're not doing it,'' Mr. Dimon said. He said the panic was so widespread that his daughter called to ask him if her college fund was federally insured.
 Laurence D. Fink, chief executive of BlackRock, a giant money-management company, said American restrictions on immigration had hampered hiring. But, he said, ''obviously, that will be less of a problem now'' as the company eliminates jobs along with the rest of the industry.
 ''Taxes are extraordinarily high here,'' Mr. Fink said. ''We're going to be moving a lot of that business elsewhere if we don't reduce taxes here.''
 Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, was somewhat more upbeat about New York's economic place in the world. ''As long as the U.S. is successful and continues to produce, New York will be the center of that in the U.S.,'' he said. 
 Mr. Blankfein suggested that the city's relative position in the global economy could be rising because much of Europe is in even worse shape. ''Fortunately, it's a relative-performance world,'' he said.
 The meeting came as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was pushing for legislation that would change term limits and allow him to serve a third term. Mr. Bloomberg has argued that he is needed to guide the city through recession, and several executives at the meeting have been actively supporting his efforts, including Mr. Dimon and Mr. Blankfein.
 The speakers acknowledged that a lot of public anger was aimed at them and their peers for not having averted the mess the markets are in, but they said much of it was misdirected. ''The evil empire is not as evil as people think we are,'' Mr. Fink said.
 Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chief executive of the Blackstone Group, an investment bank, said: ''The anger is really substantial. I think it's got legs.'' 
 But, in the aftermath of the failures of Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and other large banks, it should not be directed at him and his fellow panelists, he added.
 ''Almost every bad actor in this drama has been washed away,'' Mr. Schwarzman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (86%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); INSURANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (76%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); IMMIGRATION (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); NEWS CORP (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); AMERICAN LEGAL SYSTEMS CORP (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7338 SECRETARIAL & COURT REPORTING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (79%); LAURENCE D FINK (55%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



445 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Text of President's Statement

 BODY:
Here is the text of the statement President Bush made Friday morning about the financial crisis. The president spoke in the Rose Garden of the White House starting at 10:25 a.m. Eastern time. The transcript was released by the White House Press Office. 
 Good morning. Over the past few days, we have witnessed a startling drop in the stock market -- much of it driven by uncertainty and fear. This has been a deeply unsettling period for the American people. Many of our citizens have serious concerns about their retirement accounts, their investments, and their economic well-being.
 Here's what the American people need to know: that the United States government is acting; we will continue to act to resolve this crisis and restore stability to our markets. We are a prosperous nation with immense resources and a wide range of tools at our disposal. We're using these tools aggressively.
 The fundamental problem is this: As the housing market has declined, banks holding assets related to home mortgages have suffered serious losses. As a result of these losses, many banks lack the capital or the confidence in each other to make new loans. In turn, our system of credit has frozen, which is keeping American businesses from financing their daily transactions -- and creating uncertainty throughout our economy. 
 This uncertainty has led to anxiety among our people. And that is understandable -- that anxiety can feed anxiety, and that can make it hard to see all that is being done to solve the problem. The federal government has a comprehensive strategy and the tools necessary to address the challenges in our economy. Fellow citizens: We can solve this crisis -- and we will.
 Here are the problems we face and the steps we are taking:
 First, key markets are not functioning because there's a lack of liquidity -- the grease necessary to keep the gears of our financial system turning. So the Federal Reserve has injected hundreds of billions of dollars into the system. The Fed has joined with central banks around the world to coordinate a cut in interest rates. This rate cut will allow banks to borrow money more affordably -- and it should help free up additional credit necessary to create jobs, and finance college educations and help American families meet their daily needs. The Fed has also announced a new program to provide support for the commercial paper market, which is freezing up. As the new program kicks in over the next week or so, it will help revive a key source of short-term financing for American businesses and financial institutions.
 Second, some Americans are concerned about whether their money is safe. So the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the National Credit Union Administration have significantly expanded the amount of money insured in savings accounts, and checking accounts, and certificates of deposit. That means that if you have up to $250,000 in one of these insured accounts, every penny of that money is safe. The Treasury Department has also acted to restore confidence in a key element of America's financial system by offering government insurance for money market mutual funds.
 Thirdly, we are concerned that some investors could take advantage of the crisis to illegally manipulate the stock market. So the Securities and Exchange Commission has launched rigorous enforcement actions to detect fraud and manipulation in the market. The S.E.C. is focused on preventing abusive practices, such as putting out false information to drive down particular stocks for personal gain. Anyone caught engaging in illegal financial activities will be prosecuted.
 Fourth, the decline in the housing market has left many Americans struggling to meet their mortgages and are concerned about losing their homes. My administration has launched two initiatives to help responsible borrowers keep their homes. One is called Hope Now, and it brings together homeowners and lenders and mortgage servicers, and others to find ways to prevent foreclosure. The other initiative is aimed at making it easier for responsible homeowners to refinance into affordable mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration. So far, these programs have helped more than two million Americans stay in their home. And the point is this: If you are struggling to meet your mortgage, there are ways that you can get help.
 With these actions to help to prevent foreclosures, we're addressing a key problem in the housing market: The supply of homes now exceeds demand. And as a result, home values have declined. Once supply and demand balance out, our housing market will be able to recover -- and that will help our broader economy begin to grow.
 Fifth, we've seen that problems in the financial system are not isolated to the United States. They're also affecting other nations around the globe. So we're working closely with partners around the world to ensure that our actions are coordinated and effective. Tomorrow, I'll meet with the finance ministers from our partners in the G-7 and the heads of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. Secretary Paulson will also meet with finance ministers from the world's 20 leading economies. Through these efforts, the world is sending an unmistakable signal: We're in this together, and we'll come through this together.
 And finally, American businesses and consumers are struggling to obtain credit, because banks do not have sufficient capital to make loans. So my administration worked with Congress to quickly pass a $700 billion financial rescue package. This new law authorizes the Treasury Department to use a variety of measures to help banks rebuild capital -- including buying or insuring troubled assets and purchasing equity of financial institutions. The department will implement measures that have maximum impact as quickly as possible. Seven hundred billion dollars is a significant amount of money. And as we act, we will do it in a way that is effective.
 The plan we are executing is aggressive. It is the right plan. It will take time to have its full impact. It is flexible enough to adapt as the situation changes. And it is big enough to work.
 The federal government will continue to take the actions necessary to restore stability to our financial markets and growth to our economy. We have an outstanding economic team carrying out this effort, led by Secretary of the Treasury Hank Paulson, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, S.E.C. Chairman Chris Cox, and F.D.I.C. Chair Sheila Bair. I thank them and their dedicated teams for their service during this important moment in our country's history.
 This is an anxious time, but the American people can be confident in our economic future. We know what the problems are, we have the tools we need to fix them, and we're working swiftly to do so. Our economy is innovative, industrious and resilient because the American people who make up our economy are innovative, industrious and resilient. We all share a determination to solve this problem -- and that is exactly what we're going to do. May God bless you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (75%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); CREDIT UNIONS (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



446 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Time to Act

 BODY:
After a wild week of plunging world markets, it was welcome news on Friday night that the United States was working with other nations to stem the financial crisis and also moving ahead with plans to take equity stakes in struggling banks instead of just buying up their bad assets. 
 It is now clear that the leading nations must develop a clear, coherent and coordinated plan for this time of global financial peril. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson promised after a day of meetings to do just that, and he said that the government was actively developing a plan to protect taxpayers by giving them a stake in banks that Washington is trying to rescue after years of reckless mortgage lending. 
 We hope that Mr. Paulson and the finance ministers of other industrialized nations will come up with a detailed joint plan this weekend.
 Banks in Europe and the United States have virtually stopped lending to each other, mistrustful of the value of the bundles of American mortgages packaged into complex financial products on each other's balance sheets. Efforts by the Federal Reserve and other central banks to flood the world with cheap money have failed to restart the engine of private credit.
 So far, governments on both sides of the Atlantic have bungled their responses. The Bush administration's $700 billion package to buy bad assets from banks failed to convince anybody that it would solve the problem. Meanwhile, leaders in the European Union pointed fingers, squabbled over burden-sharing and made matters worse with ad-hoc actions on a national level that just pushed the problem onto their neighbors.
 Fortunately, a consensus is emerging on the immediate need to stabilize the financial system. With most of the world's finance ministers and central bankers gathered in Washington this weekend for the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, there is an opportunity to convert this consensus into a concrete strategy. 
 The plan should offer some temporary government guarantee for deposits and loans to unlock interbank lending and gain some time to figure out which banks can be saved and which cannot. It should provide for governments to quickly inject equity capital into banks. It should be coordinated internationally, with burden-sharing provisions that specify which governments will provide capital to banks that do cross-border business. 
 The approach need not be identical in each country, but the bank rescue announced by the British government this week provides a useful template. It offers to insure up to about $425 billion worth of new bank debt, forces banks to raise new equity capital and makes government money available to buy equity. 
 The approach is not perfect. It does not eliminate the toxic assets. It will require a lot of government oversight and clear rules. For instance, banks that benefit from government guarantees should not be allowed to pay dividends. Regulators will have to quickly find which banks are insolvent and need to be shut down.
 Some countries, like Switzerland, might not have the wherewithal to recapitalize their national banks on their own. So a mechanism might be necessary -- perhaps through the I.M.F. -- to provide funds to prop up their banking systems. 
 In the medium-term, many countries will need stimulus packages to mitigate the inevitable economic slowdown. Washington has to do more to help homeowners, as well as pensioners and near-retirees whose savings have been wiped out. And the regulatory regime governing the world's financial system has to be rethought.
 But at this crucial juncture, the task is to stop the panic that is unraveling the world's financial system. This weekend is the time to do it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (66%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008



447 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LIVES; Pg. 98

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Attack of the Tomato Killers

BYLINE: By DOUG FINE. 
Doug Fine is the author of ''Farewell, my Subaru,'' an account of his attempt to purge petroleum from his life.

 BODY:
AS A ONETIME suburban latchkey kid who subsisted on Domino's Pizza and ''Brady Bunch'' reruns for his first 18 years, I was feeling pretty good in mid-August about this year's tomatoes. The beans, corn, carrots and squash weren't looking too shabby, either, but a combination of effective drip irrigation and a light, steady monsoon season here in the New Mexico high desert had the tomatoes so prolific that it looked as if our explicit family goal would be reached: no matter how many we gorged on while harvesting, we'd still have a winter's worth of pasta sauce to can in the fall, with enough left over to make a respectable showing at the valley harvest festival in October. 
 I was dangerously close to gloating about my hard-won food independence in a time of economic uncertainty. I grew up as a full-blown American mall consumer. But at age 36, I was reborn as a sustainable producer, a neo-Rugged Individualist Rancher. It took a lot of work in the two years that followed, but it looked to be paying off. I didn't foresee a produce run to town, 45 minutes away, until perhaps February. Talk about local living. 
 Then the worst -- old-timers say the only -- biblical August hailstorm in memory hit. There was no warning. The Old Farmer's Almanac didn't predict it. No one could have imagined it. But Aug. 20 was not a day many in my remote valley will forget. For my fiancee and me, it was 45 minutes of carnage that turned our 41 acres into a frozen golf driving range, pockmarked our garbage cans and carved our hilly driveway into a replica of the Grand Canyon, trapping us for several days. One minute I was wearing shorts and sweating under big blue skies. The next I was calling out, ''Clouds're movin' in,'' to my fiancee, using the Mountain Dialect I was working on. Then our world changed.
 When it was over, the garden was gone. Done. Vanquished. The beans -- just days from harvest -- were pulverized, the corn a sorry weed patch like something out of Stephen King. And those prize tomatoes? What remained looked as if they'd been used by angry fans to pelt a performer. Up to my shins in hail as I pathetically harvested the few dozen survivors, I experienced a horrifying vision of my family's survival prospects had we lived in anything but the Wal-Mart era.
 In short, my imagined food independence was so tenuous that an hour of weather had turned me back into a consumer with a shopping cart. Luckily, my goats and chickens were healthy (if soaked and deeply ticked off), so if this had been, say, 1808 instead of 2008 and the Apaches had left me alone this long, I could theoretically have survived by bartering milk and eggs for the produce I lost. But it is 2008, and it wasn't three days before I hung my head and went shopping for food at the crunchy organic co-op in town, 28 miles away.
 ''Got some weather out your way the other day, I hear?'' the cashier asked me.
 ''I reckon,'' I said stoically. I was sticking with the accent.
 If the Great Hail Event of Aught Eight didn't make me grateful for the petroleum-fueled, globalized commerce network that I was trying to shake on my solar-powered ranch, it did jolt me into realizing I was still part of it. Local living, an admirable goal, is not something I was going to achieve in two years. I don't eat Domino's Pizza much anymore, but I do duck into Wal-Mart now and then to get Chinese-made plastic water buckets -- for the goats that give me my organic milk, yogurt, cheese and ice cream. 
 Like a survivalist who isn't too proud to collect welfare, I realized that, Rugged Individualist though I might aspire to be, I won't get there without a little help from both Mother Nature and a bunch of factories along the Yangtze River. And I couldn't watch as dispassionately as I would have liked when investment banks collapsed in those post-hail weeks, thinking to myself that world markets have nothing to do with my dirty-fingernailed life. They do. If spaghetti sauce stopped coming from . . . from wherever organic spaghetti sauce comes from, we wouldn't be eating spaghetti this week. And there are only so many ways to prepare chicken eggs.
 Meanwhile, I've replanted: we might get another bean crop in before the frost. And some days ago I noticed that seven or eight tomato vines, maybe 20 percent of the crop, have come back. Only the climate -- perhaps influenced by the coal burned at those plastic-bucket factories in Asia -- will decide if there's enough time for them to flower and fruit. Either way, I still have to weed the garden, milk the goats twice a day, feed the chickens and fend off the coyotes who want to treat my ranch like a takeout buffet. Beats watching ''Brady Bunch'' reruns.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (ILLUSTRATION BY HOLLY WALES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%)

COMPANY: DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (58%)

TICKER: DPZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



448 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE FOOD ISSUE; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 3579 words

HEADLINE: Kosher Wars

BYLINE: By SAMANTHA M. SHAPIRO. 
Samantha M. Shapiro is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
ONE SUNNY DAY in late August, Andy Kastner made the short drive from his apartment in Riverdale, in the Bronx, to Yonkers First Live Poultry Market, a narrow cinder-block shop that sells live chickens, pigeons, quail and rabbits stacked in ancient-looking metal cages. At Yonkers First, workers usually slaughter and butcher the animals for customers, but Kastner was there because he wanted to kill his own chickens.
 Kastner, who is 28 and has curly hair, big brown eyes, stick-straight posture and a calm, thoughtful demeanor, had recently returned from his summer job leading a community-service trip for Jewish teenagers to a Navajo reservation, and he was about to begin his third year at Yeshivat Chovevei Torah, a small, Orthodox rabbinical school. He parked his green Subaru by an auto-body shop across from the poultry market, and from the backseat he grabbed a tote bag holding his slaughtering knife, his butcher's jacket and a red leather book in Hebrew. 
 Kastner spent the previous year studying how to slaughter animals according to Jewish law. Kosher dietary laws, which religious Jews observe, prohibit eating certain animals, and the ones that are permitted must be killed and butchered in very specific ways. There was a time when learning the practice of slaughter, or shechita, was part of standard training for rabbis, but in an era when most animals are killed and butchered on assembly lines, it has disappeared from the curriculum of most rabbinical schools. 
 Kastner's yeshiva didn't teach shechita, so he asked the head of the school for help finding a teacher. Then he cold-called shochtim, or ritual slaughterers, in the New York area looking for information on where to get the special knife required for kosher slaughter. (''It turned out they were made in some guy's basement in Brooklyn,'' Kastner told me.) Now that Kastner has completed his training, he occasionally comes by Yonkers First to practice. Shechita requires one quick, smooth cut to the throat, which must sever the trachea and esophagus but not hit the spinal cord. The amount of force needed for the cut depends on the breed of animal, and the only way to learn is to practice. Kastner and his wife serve the chickens that he cuts correctly for Shabbat dinner, and he gives the occasional mistake to his doorman.
 Ten years ago, learning how to slit animals' throats by hand was simply not a compelling choice for young rabbis of the clean-shaven, earnest sort like Kastner. But the politicization of food issues and the popularization of epicurean and artisanal eating has made learning Jewish food traditions relevant for a new generation. Kastner grew up in the Reform movement, which 120 years ago formally disavowed kashrut, the kosher dietary laws, as an anachronistic impediment to ''modern spiritual elevation'' -- though Reform leaders later softened their position, decreeing that kashrut was a matter of personal choice. But for Kastner, Jewish ritual slaughter actually seems a bit revolutionary. He says he thinks that contemporary disconnection from our food sources is the cause of numerous environmental and social ills, like the national obesity epidemic. He wanted to be a shochet to help people make more healthful food choices and reconnect to the source of their food, and to encourage investment in local agriculture. He says the rules around kosher food -- like the requirement that meat be slaughtered by a pious person with a certain intention and the requirement to say a blessing over every food acknowledging its source (land, tree, grain, other) -- encourage mindful eating and discourage overconsumption of resources. 
 Kastner is part of a nascent Jewish food movement that draws upon the vast body of Jewish traditions related to agriculture and farming; Judaism, for all its scholarly abstraction, is a land-based religion. The movement emphasizes the natural intersections between the sustainable-food movement and kashrut: a shared concern for purity and an awareness of the process food goes through before it reaches the table. ''The core of kashrut is the idea of limiting oneself, that not everything that we can consume should be consumed,'' Kastner said. ''I wouldn't buy a ham sandwich, and I would also refrain from buying an exotic mangosteen imported from China, which wastes fossil fuels and is grown with pesticides.'' He told me he studied shechita because he wants to ''create food systems outside the industrial model.'' He has been trying to set up a grass-fed-kosher-meat co-op in his neighborhood; he says he hopes to travel to a local farm and shecht the animals himself. 
 The proprietor of Yonkers First, Vincent Siani, was happy to see Kastner. Siani has a modified pompadour with a white streak and was wearing two gold chains with cross pendants, a pinkie ring and a diamond-stud earring. Siani's father ran the store before he took it over, and Siani told me he remembered when a rabbi hung out at the shop a few days a week to serve the neighborhood's Jewish customers. These days, his customers are mostly from the surrounding Hispanic neighborhood, although Muslims sometimes ask to slaughter their own animals for holidays, or they have Siani do it. ''They ask me to say, 'Bismillah,' and, 'Allah hu Akbar,' when I make the cut,'' Siani said. He shrugged. ''It don't cost me nothing.''
 Kastner went to the back of the store and peered inside a cage full of white chickens. He opened the door a bit, tentatively reached around inside and then closed it. ''This is the hard part,'' Kastner sighed. ''They know what's up. You can feel their feathers plump when you reach in. They all hide in the corner.'' Siani came back to chat about the chickens available that day, which breeds were better for soup, which would be more tender. Siani opened a cage of small birds that he pronounced superior, unceremoniously pulled two out and handed them, squawking, to Kastner.
 Kastner took the chickens to the small room for slaughter and placed them in the deep sink. He took a knotted plastic bag filled with dirt out of his pocket and sprinkled the dirt into two plastic cones where the chickens would be placed after they were killed, to drain the blood. The Torah says the blood of an animal contains its ''life'' and should not be eaten, and when some animals are killed, their blood is supposed to be buried with a blessing. That's why Kastner lined the cone with dirt. He unsheathed his knife and ran the blade across his fingernail to check for nicks, which would render the animal unkosher. He picked up one bird, held both its wings in one hand, and tipped it back so its head hung upside down against the back of his arm. Kastner ran a finger across the chicken's neck to elongate it, whispered a blessing and made his cut.
 FOR MOST OF Jewish history, kashrut was a home- and community-based ritual. There were no prepared kosher foods and few restaurants. As recently as the 1950s, my father would sometimes travel with his town's rabbi and kosher butcher to a farm, where the rabbi would slaughter and skin an animal. They would bring it to a local kosher butcher, who would remove the veins and tributaries and certain fats; later, the women who bought the meat would ritually soak and salt it on boards in their kitchens to drain the blood.
 But in the age of industrial food production, kosher food has become a $12.5-billion-a-year business, monitored by an elaborate multimillion-dollar kosher-certification system. The Orthodox Union, or O.U., the largest kosher-certification agency in the country, charges companies a fee (which ranges, depending on the size of the company, from $4,000 to $10,000) to supervise their ingredients and equipment and place a small symbol on their food packages indicating the food is kosher. Last year, the O.U. certified more than half a million products, mostly the preservatives, colorings and additives found in most processed food, generating millions of dollars in profit.
 Perhaps surprisingly, more than 70 percent of kosher-food consumers in the United States are not observant Jews; they choose kosher products because they view them as safer or rely on the strict ingredient labeling for their food allergies or other religious concerns. According to a report released earlier this year by the Mintel International Group, a London-based market-research company, the observant Jewish population alone is not large enough to support the market for food bought specifically because it is kosher. (This finding is borne out by the dozens of candy and cookie companies that request kosher certification each year for special Christmas- and Easter-themed products.) 
 Kosher meat represents a small part of the overall kosher industry and a tiny fraction of the American meat industry, but it has followed the larger meat-industry trend toward consolidating local slaughterhouses and butcher shops into megaplants, where all the meat is processed on site and shipped out precut. Some kosher meat distributors arrange to bring their own slaughterer and processors to a nonkosher processing plant one day out of the month, and others operate their own facility. 
 Agriprocessors, the largest independent facility, was started by Aaron Rubashkin, who is part of a prominent family in the Chabad Lubavitch movement. Rubashkin ran a kosher butcher shop in Brooklyn for many years, and in 1987 he decided to buy a defunct meat-processing plant in Postville, Iowa. Agriprocessors hired low-wage, nonunionized workers, often illegal immigrants, and they churned out huge volumes of both regular kosher and glatt-kosher meat (which hews to a more strict standard than regular kosher) as well as nonkosher meat, which accounts for the majority of their output. Agriprocessors came to dominate the market, providing about 60 percent of the kosher beef and 40 percent of the kosher poultry nationwide. In many parts of the country, Agriprocessors became the only option for glatt-kosher beef. While Agriprocessors grew, the infrastructure of small-scale kosher meat production -- local slaughterhouses and butchers, and Jews who knew how to kasher meat in their own sinks -- was largely disappearing. Jews no longer know that their meat is kosher because they know the person who killed it but because of the symbol that appears on the shrink-wrap at the grocery store.
 In 2004, in response to tips about excessive use of cattle prods at the Postville plant, PETA, the animal rights group, sent undercover operatives into Agriprocessors, and they returned with especially gruesome footage of workers ripping out the tracheae of live cows after their throats had been cut. The PETA video was only the beginning of a long run of bad press for Agriprocessors. In 2006, The Forward, a national Jewish newspaper, published a long expose claiming bad labor practices at the plant as well as health and safety violations. That May, Agriprocessors was the target of what was then the largest single-site immigration raid in U.S. history; 389 employees were arrested, and Iowa's attorney general filed criminal charges against Agriprocessors and Aaron Rubashkin for more than 9,000 counts of child-labor violations.
 The allegations against Agriprocessors galvanized a small but thriving Jewish environmental movement and took its concerns to a much wider audience. In some American Jewish households, the raid on Agriprocessors started a deep conversation about the very meaning of kosher: is it simply about cutting an animal's neck and butchering it in a specific way? Or is the ritual also meant to minimize an animal's pain or to bring sanctity to its death? Does it matter how the animal was treated when it was alive? How about the workers who processed it? Is reverence for life possible in a factory-farming setting? 
 Jewish religious texts contain many laws about the treatment of workers and animals. For example, the Torah repeats some variation on the injunction ''Do not oppress the stranger, for you were strangers in Egypt'' seven times. It requires animals to rest on Shabbat and prohibits farmers from making an animal carry too heavy a load. But in the Jewish legal system, rules about the treatment of workers and animals are not directly linked to kashrut. A cow that is mistreated does not become unkosher as it would if it had too many adhesions on its lung. 
 The idea of linking kosher food with other ethical issues is not new. In the 1970s, Rabbi Moshe Feinstein of New York urged Jews not to eat veal. In the late 1980s, Rabbi Arthur Waskow, a leader of the Jewish Renewal movement, wrote that Jews should examine all the resources they consume, not just food, to determine if they were ''kosher'' in the broadest sense of the word. (Kosher means ''fit'' in Hebrew.) In 1990, Waskow convened a conference with rabbis from every denomination to introduce this idea, which he called eco-kashrut. Waskow suggested that perhaps nuclear power shouldn't be kosher. What about paper that's not made from postconsumer waste? 
 At the time, Waskow's proposals were considered marginal, and few Jews took steps to implement them. But since then, many of his ideas about food have become more mainstream. Hazon, a Jewish environmental organization, helps support several Jewish farms around the Northeast and convenes an annual food conference with classes on urban worm composting and biblical farming laws and, in one case, a live-animal-slaughter demonstration. And in the wake of the allegations against Agriprocessors, a number of American groups have set about trying to create a certification system for kosher food that would alert consumers to the conditions under which it was produced. In August, Morris Allen, a rabbi in Minnesota, released preliminary guidelines for an additional certification, which he calls Hekhsher Tzedek (literally, ''justice certification''), a seal that Allen says he hopes will appear on kosher products that are also created under fair working conditions. In New York, Uri L'Tzedek, an Orthodox social-justice group, announced plans to introduce a certification system for kosher restaurants based on worker treatment this fall. A group of Los Angeles Orthodox rabbis plans a similar effort in a Jewish neighborhood there. 
 OVER THE LAST YEAR, several unlikely entrepreneurs have attempted to create an alternative kosher food economy based on the local systems of farmers' markets and food cooperatives that have evolved in many parts of the United States over the last decade.
 I have a friend named Simon Feil, a 32-year-old actor and sushi instructor, who is completely obsessed with meat; he deep-fries it, bakes it, slow-cooks it in his rotisserie. Vegetables make rare and grudging appearances at his dinner table; I once attended a Shabbat dinner where he served a challah into which he had embedded a footlong kosher hot dog before baking. In 2004, Feil saw the PETA videos from Agriprocessors, and he was shocked. Feil thought he knew a thing or two about kashrut; he grew up attending Orthodox day schools and yeshiva in Israel and later worked as a kosher supervisor for a Chinese restaurant. But until he saw the PETA videos, Feil had always assumed that if an animal was kosher, it wasn't mistreated at any stage of its life. ''We always learned that kosher slaughter is more humane,'' Feil told me recently. ''And we learned all these rules about not inflicting pain on animals. It sounds silly now, but it never occurred to me that you could violate those laws in a kosher establishment in any way.'' Feil no longer felt comfortable eating meat, and becoming a vegetarian was clearly not an option for him. So he set about creating an alternative that met his ideal of kosher, a process more arduous than he bargained for. His co-op, Kosher Conscience, distributed one round of Royal Palm heritage turkeys last Thanksgiving and has a second round of Broad-Breasted Whites, plus a flock of free-range chickens, in the works. A benefactor who learned of Feil's efforts just bought him a $3,500 chicken-plucking machine. 
 Last year, Maya Shetreat-Klein, a 34-year-old pediatric neurologist who lives in Riverdale, decided she wanted to feed her family of five grass-fed meat, for health reasons and because, she said, kashrut should be about ''elevating ordinary experiences.'' When she was still trying to find all the people and equipment she would need -- a farmer, a certifying rabbi and humane restraints for kosher slaughter that she could use at the local nonkosher slaughterhouse -- her efforts were mentioned in an opinion piece in The Jewish Week. It was just one sentence, but it struck a nerve. People started contacting her, offering assistance, financial and otherwise. ''I felt a responsibility to provide the meat to a wider group, since there was so much interest,'' Shetreat-Klein told me. In August, her new co-op, Mitzvah Meat, slaughtered and processed 31 lambs and two grass-fed cows, all raised on farms in the Hudson Valley. Shetreat-Klein says she now hopes to make monthly deliveries of kosher meat.
 The most fully developed of these grass-roots kosher-meat distributors is KOL Foods (for Kosher Organic-Raised Local), based in Silver Spring, Md., which sells grass-fed lamb and beef through synagogues in Maryland, New Jersey, Philadelphia, California and Washington. Devora Kimelman-Block, the founder of KOL Foods, had been running a community-supported agricultural co-op out of her synagogue for two years when, in the fall of 2006, she decided to try to start distributing meat. She had kept a vegetarian kosher kitchen for 16 years because she didn't want to support the factory-farming system and there were no local, pasture-raised kosher options. But she loved meat. (''It's just damn good,'' she told me, shaking her head.) It took her almost a year to coordinate the project, but finally, in July of last year, KOL Foods slaughtered three cows raised on a farm in Rocky Ridge, Md., at one of the nation's few remaining independent kosher slaughterhouses, in Baltimore. The cows were then butchered at a small shop in Silver Spring, yielding 400 pounds of kosher meat that Kimelman-Block sold in 50-pound boxes. 
 Kimelman-Block's marketing effort was pretty low-key: she sent e-mail messages to organic-food groups and to the listserv for her children's day school and her synagogue. But the response was huge: she sold $11,000 worth of meat in less than a week. She soon had waiting lists in four Northeastern cities, as well as about 100 unsolicited e-mail messages from eager customers scattered around the country. A man from Cleveland drove to Maryland and bought more than 100 pounds of Kimelman-Block's meat. These days, she says, she sells as much as $20,000 a month in kosher beef and lamb.
 Some in the ethical-kashrut movement describe it as a return to the traditional values of kashrut: community-based supervision of the food supply, reverence for agriculture and animal husbandry and attention to detail. They see new small-scale meat companies like Kimelman-Block's as a welcome throwback to the food networks of the shtetl. Rabbi Allen's proposal for a new ''justice certification,'' which has been embraced by the Conservative and Reform movements and by social-justice groups like Hazon, is laced with quotations from the Talmud and the Jewish legal codes about the treatment of workers. But some Orthodox rabbis say that labeling kosher foods or restaurants according to an additional set of standards would inappropriately redefine kashrut and that it grafts trendy values and ideas onto a practice whose real purpose is mysterious and unknowable. 
 Part of this debate has to do with denominational infighting. Some Orthodox Jews don't like the idea of Conservative Jews or even liberal Modern Orthodox Jews horning in on an area of Jewish life that has traditionally been the domain of the Orthodox alone. But some of the debate harks back to longstanding Jewish questions about the purpose of religious observance: Does God require adherence to his laws because they are just, or is following God's laws a good unto itself whether or not the laws serve a moral purpose? Should Jews keep kosher because it is an ethical practice, or should they keep kosher because it is what God wants? Last month, Agudath Israel, a lobbying organization that represents haredi, or ultra-Orthodox Jews, released a statement opposing Allen's proposals for a ''justice certification.'' Avi Shafran, a spokesman for Agudath Israel, told me that if kashrut is framed as simply an ethical practice, or as a practice with any specific function other than obeying God's law, it could set the stage for the practice to ultimately be discarded. 
 Over the years, Jewish scholars have suggested a variety of explanations for the kosher laws. The medieval commentator Maimonides said kashrut was a means of acquiring discipline. In the early 1900s, the first chief rabbi of Palestine under the British mandate, Avraham Yitzhak Kook, taught that the restrictions were a part of the Torah's effort to limit meat consumption in general. But even the most radical champions of ethical kashrut acknowledge that there is an aspect of the practice that is simply unknowable. ''In some profound way, kashrut is not rational,'' Waskow told me. ''That may even be part of it. The idea may be just to cause you to pause before you put food in your mouth. To stop and ask a question.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A BIRD IN THE HAND: Andy Kastner thinks outside the industrial-food model. (MM51)
INSTRUCTION MANUAL: Kastner's knife and book about kosher slaughter (MM55) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF RIEDEL)
 DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY HAPPYPETS )(MM52 MM54) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); MAMMALS (77%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (75%); CURRICULA (74%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



449 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Finding Depth In Small Rosters

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
A DEBATE rages among mutual fund managers about concentration. The dispute has nothing to do with orange juice or the ability to focus the mind. Instead, it turns on the right number of stocks to put in a portfolio. 
 A fund with few stocks is considered concentrated and may be able to deliver higher returns than a more diversified competitor. But the performance of a concentrated fund may be dragged down by a big drop in any one stock or a handful of them. With few holdings, the fund sacrifices some of its risk protection; a few bad bets can sink it. There is some safety in numbers. 
 Three top-performing funds in the third quarter favored a concentrated approach, and it served them well in a whirligig market. For the quarter, they beat not only many of their peers but also the Standard & Poor's 500 index, which lost 8.4 percent, including reinvested dividends. But as the fourth quarter began, the entire market remained highly volatile.
 Domestic or Offshore 
 William C. Nygren and David G. Herro usually hold about 20 stocks in Oakmark Global Select I, which invests about half of its assets in the United States and half abroad. The average mutual fund holds about six times as many stocks. Global Select is only two years old, but Mr. Nygren and Mr. Herro have managed other Oakmark funds for at least a decade each. 
 Managers who pick stocks, rather than mirror indexes, need to concentrate their funds to raise returns and justify their fees, Mr. Nygren said. Index-fund investors get the market's return, minus a few tenths of a percentage point, and pay low fees. If people pony up more for a fund, they should have the potential to make more money, he said. His and Mr. Herro's fund aims to offer that partly through its small number of holdings.
 ''If you think you can add value, then the more names you add, the more you potentially dilute that value,'' he said. 
 Mr. Nygren cautioned that the fund, because of its concentration, makes sense only for investors who have made efforts to diversify their total portfolios by, say, holding stakes in several different funds.''This shouldn't be the only fund you own,'' he said. 
 The fund's approach means it necessarily bets big on each holding. One that powered its return in the quarter -- Capital One Financial, the credit-card giant -- accounted for 3.7 percent of the portfolio on June 30, the most recent data available. The company's shares returned about 35 percent in the third quarter and were spared the battering that much of the financial sector has endured. This year through Sept. 30, they returned about 10 percent, versus losses by other consumer financial companies.
 ''One of the things we're seeing in the market's decline is the separation of longer-term winners and losers,'' Mr. Nygren said. ''As investors think ahead, Capital One is one of the main players in the credit-card market,'' which so far hasn't seen the losses that the mortgage business has.
 Oakmark Global Select I lost money for the quarter, down 3.7 percent. But because many funds were swooning, that return still put it on the list of top performers among international stock funds.
 Branching Out
 Samuel D. Isaly, manager of Eaton Vance Worldwide Health Sciences, had the good luck to specialize in a sector -- health care -- that to some extent resists a tough economy. For many years, Mr. Isaly, who has run this fund since 1989, invested almost exclusively in pharmaceuticals and biotech. But he branched out after seeing weak returns in those sectors for several years.
 About two years ago, he began adding medical device makers to the fund, which held 37 stocks as of June 30. ''We'd suffered in drugs and biotech, and this gave us some expanded capacity,'' he said.
 Device makers like Covidien and LifeCell aided the fund's third-quarter return, which was 7.4 percent. 
 Investor interest in mergers and acquisitions also contributed to the gain. Mr. Isaly held big stakes in Genentech and ImClone Systems, and both rose after becoming acquisition targets. Roche Holding bid for Genentech, while Eli Lilly agreed to buy ImClone. Takeover activity ticked up in July, with more deals that month than in the first six months of the year, he said. 
 A Bet on Home-Building
 Chuck L. Myers, manager of Fidelity Small Cap Value, doesn't concentrate his portfolio as much as Mr. Isaly or Mr. Nygren and Mr. Herro do -- the fund held 78 stocks at the end of June. Even so, that was about half as many as it had when Mr. Myers took over the fund in May. The fund returned 6.9 percent in the third quarter.
 To thrive amid the market's recent chaos, he made counterintuitive calls, investing in home-building and, indirectly, commercial real estate. Both sectors have slumped of late. His largest holding at the end of June was HNI, a maker of office furniture and fireplaces. Meritage Homes, a builder, stood in his top 20. 
 ''If you go back to June of this year, many of the home builders were trading as if they were going to go bankrupt,'' he said. Despite hard times, that seemed unlikely for the ones with sturdier balance sheets. ''Home builders' assets are land, homes under construction and homes built,'' he said. ''To get to the share prices they were trading at, you had to rate their land values at zero.'' 
 Later, some of the stocks returned to the more reasonable levels that Mr. Myers expected. ''Meritage Homes was a stellar performer,'' he said. ''It's gotten back to a value where the land isn't at zero.'' 
 Portfolio concentration can hurt as much as it helps, as Mr. Myers learned last year at the other Fidelity fund he oversees, Small Cap Retirement. 
 There, he bet heavily on American Reprographics, a document manager for the construction industry, committing about 10 percent of the fund's assets to the stock. A drop in the shares sapped the overall return of that fund, which lagged behind its index last year. 
 He said the experience taught him to temper risk-taking. These days he shies away from pouring too much money into a single stock.
 ''My biggest bets are now about 3 percent of the fund, and the smallest are about 1 percent,'' he said. ''That 3-to-1 ratio is a great insight that I got out of that experience. It's about how much more confident you are in your best idea versus your worst idea; 10-to-1 was overconfident on my part.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chuck L. Myers, the manager of Fidelity Small Cap Value, reduced the number of stocks in its portfolio by about half. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
David G. Herro, left, and William C. Nygren usually keep only about 20 stocks in the Oakmark Global Select I fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Samuel D. Isaly, of Eaton Vance Worldwide Health Sciences, holds pharmaceutical, medical device and biotech shares. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Far Ahead of the Market: How three strong performers of the third quarter fared against the overall market and against their peer groups of stock funds. (Sources: Morningstar, Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DIVIDENDS (72%)

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (62%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



450 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Overfeeding on Information

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
YANA COLLINS LEHMAN, a film production accountant who lives in Brooklyn, knew something was amiss when her 5-year-old son, Beckett, started to announce to no one in particular, ''I'm John McCain, and I approved this statement.''
 Ms. Collins Lehman, 36, thought: ''Oh my God, I'm watching too much news.''
 But it is hard not to, she said, with the financial markets in meltdown, and that crisis increasingly intertwined with a frenzied presidential campaign entering the homestretch. This is why her own news diet has spiked to where it feels as if it's taking over her life. And maybe her son's, too.
 ''It's such a drain on productivity,'' Ms. Collins Lehman said. ''It's a compulsion.'' 
 For many, the hunger for information is reminiscent of those harried, harrowing months after Sept. 11, 2001. But seven years ago, there was no iPhone, no Twitter, no YouTube. There was no Google Reader to endlessly feed people updates on their favorite Web sites. Social networking sites, blogs and TiVo were in their infancy.
 This explosion of information technology, when combined with an unusual confluence of dramatic -- and ongoing -- news events, has led many people to conclude that they have given their lives over to a news obsession. They find themselves taking breaks at work every 15 minutes to check the latest updates, and at the end of the day, taking laptops to bed. Then they pad through darkened homes in the predawn to check on the Asian markets.
 Despite having a job that obliges her to keep up with the latest movies, Ms. Collins Lehman recently downgraded her Netflix subscription to two movies a month, she said, because she was spending so much time following the news. 
 Raymond L. Roker, 40, who runs a music magazine called Urb and lives in Los Angeles, said that his media diet has swollen to nearly unmanageable proportions because of the turbulent current events. He sets his DVR to record more than 10 daily political shows, which can take four to five hours to sit through every night, and posts about politics continuously on his personal blog (he also blogs occasionally for The Huffington Post). 
 In addition, Mr. Roker said, he spends much of his remaining free time swapping political views with friends on Facebook. ''And meanwhile, I should be running my mini media empire,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''If that's not addiction, I don't know what is.''
 Mary Beth Caschetta, 42, an advertising copywriter who lives in Provincetown, Mass., said she has been so concerned about the direction of the country that she has been taking her Kindle to bed so she can track the headlines. In recent weeks, Ms. Caschetta said, the news has even invaded her dreams. A recent one had her grilling the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, about the economy over cocktails, she said. 
 ''It's just the last thing I think of every night before I go to sleep,'' Ms. Caschetta said, referring to the news. 
 This spike in news interest is reflected in Web traffic figures from Yahoo's political and financial news sites, according to the company. ''Both sites are experiencing record traffic over the last few weeks,'' said Brian Nelson, a Yahoo spokesman. ''Finance has been operating at near capacity.''
 Traffic on the financial channel jumped by 27 percent during the week of Sept. 15, when Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch imploded as the simmering crisis boiled over, company figures showed.
 ERIC KLINENBERG, a sociology professor at New York University, said people are unusually transfixed by news of the day because the economic crisis in particular seems to reach into every corner of their lives. Usually, he added, people can compartmentalize their lives into different spheres of activity, such as work, family and leisure. But now, ''those spheres are collapsing into each other.'' 
 And the news is not just consequential, but whipsaw-volatile. Financial markets swing hundreds of points within an hour; poll numbers shift. This means that news these days has an unbelievably short shelf life, news addicts said. If you haven't checked the headlines in the last half-hour, the world may already have changed.
 Jeff Slate, a songwriter who lives in Manhattan, said that he has found himself logging on to the Internet in the middle of the night to check the Asian financial markets, something he had not done for years. And a quick scan of the headlines usually leads him down an information rabbit hole, since almost every blog or news article links to a half-dozen others, which link to others. Even music blogs these days are filled with links to political news and commentary. 
 ''There's just been a glut of information that even four years ago that wasn't the case,'' said Mr. Slate, 41. In times when people think their fate is tied to enormous events that are out of their hands, stockpiling information can give some people a sense of control, social scientists said.
 For others, information serves as social currency. Crises, like soap operas or sports teams, can provide a serial drama for people to talk about and bond over, said Kenneth J. Gergen, a senior research psychologist at Swarthmore College who studies technology and culture. ''It gives us the stuff that keeps the community together,'' he said. And for those whose social circles think of knowledge as power, having the latest information can also enhance status, Dr. Gergen said. ''If you can just say what somebody said yesterday, that doesn't do the trick,'' he said.
 Indeed, Michael Palka, who lives in Manhattan and is the president of SheFinds.com, an Internet fashion publishing company founded by his wife, Michelle Madhok, said that he feels a sense of ''one-upmanship'' among those in his social circle to know the latest details about, say, credit default swaps and how they may affect the election. An Obama supporter, he said, he uses any means at his disposal to stay ahead of the curve. He downloaded an application onto his iPhone to feed him up-to-the-minute polling data; during presidential debates, he and his wife sit around at home, using Twitter to exchange political updates with friends. 
 ''The more you know about what's going on,'' Mr. Palka said, ''the better case you can make for your candidate.'' 
 To combat the sense of information overload, some find it tempting to pull back. Michael Davidson, the founder of Citypl.com, an expedited delivery service, who lives in Potomac, Md., said he and his wife attended a recent dinner party with three other couples where ''each individual sat wringing their hands and telling in their own way how they can't keep up anymore with all of the news and current events,'' he said in an e-mail message. Mr. Davidson, 57, argued that the Rip Van Winkle approach was still the best. 
 That Washington Irving tale, he said he explained to them, concerns a man who went to sleep under a tree for 20 years, only to wake up and find that on the surface everything had changed, but on another level, nothing had. 
 Unfortunately, that story is fiction. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MULTI-NEWSING: Raymond L. Roker monitors ''Hardball'' and blogs in Los Angeles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AXEL KOESTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 NOT NOW, HONEY: When Yana Collins Lehman is absorbed in news programs, Beckett, 5, her son, also gets a dose. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); WRITERS (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%); NETFLIX INC (55%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (55%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (55%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (57%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



451 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2183 words

HEADLINE: Bailout at the Local Bar

BYLINE: By GREGORY BEYER

 BODY:
UNTIL early last month, Debra Fierro drove each day from her home in Charleston, near the southern tip of Staten Island, and parked her white S.U.V. in front of Rubyfruit Bar and Grill, the Hudson Street tavern that she opened in 1994. Ms. Fierro, 53, dressed in running clothes, usually arrived around noon and took inventory for that night's dinner. 
 What came next was exercise for the mind as much as the body, a flight from business and bills and unpaid rent, an exercise in forgetting. 
 A marathon runner, Ms. Fierro rolled up the sleeves of her T-shirt and jogged down to Battery Park and back, ending up at the Printing House Fitness and Squash Club, a few blocks away from her restaurant. There she showered and changed into her work attire: typically jeans and an untucked collared shirt, maybe a vest. 
 For years, Ms. Fierro's early afternoon jaunt fit into a larger routine: the day-to-day churnings of a business that was not only getting along but developing a reputation as one of the city's most popular lesbian bars.
 ''Who hadn't heard of it?'' asked a woman named Lassie, who, one night this summer, when Rubyfruit's fate was uncertain, could be found leaning against the bar, chatting with the bartender in the soft red glow of the lights. In the mid-1990s, this woman used to make weekend pilgrimages to Rubyfruit from her home in Northampton, Mass. ''Everyone had heard of it,'' she added. ''Back then.''
 Since then -- a vague period -- Rubyfruit has become one of those institutions that, like aging athletes, have outlived their glory days and taken up residence in their own long shadows. 
 The economic turmoil that has rocked the city, the nation and the world in recent months has defined Ms. Fierro's reality for the past two years. Rubyfruit is a portrait in miniature of these large-scale troubles, one of countless unassuming businesses around the city being battered by forces beyond their control and sometimes deeply mysterious to them. 
 ''I had this formula that worked,'' Ms. Fierro said. ''But then it didn't work anymore.''
 A Play Without the Props
 For about 12 years, Rubyfruit got along, never making much money but resting comfortably on its reputation. In recent years, though, Ms. Fierro returned from her daily run to a barrage of reminders that, in her mind, amounted to warnings of structural fragility, as if the place might collapse any day.
 Until two years ago, she began each day with $300 in the cash register. Now, she started with $30. If someone paid with a large bill and needed change, an employee had to run to an A.T.M., an embarrassing display, Ms. Fierro knew. 
 She once kept tanks of soda under the bar, but recently, when a customer ordered a rum and Coke, a bartender would grab the soda from the fridge. When the soda ran out, an employee would run around the corner and buy another case. 
 These small tasks added up to a wearying, ragtag performance, like a play being presented without the necessary props.
 ''You'd never know that this business was so depressed if you walked in, because everything looks the same,'' said Ms. Fierro, who wears her blond hair neatly parted on the side and reaching just to her shoulders. ''But I know there's no ice machine down there; there's no soda in the guns.''
 This month, the rent rose to $11,330 from $6,500 in 1994. Her clientele had largely passed through its nightlife phase. As one longtime customer, Alisa Wiles, said recently, ''A lot of the lesbian crew moved out to Brooklyn.'' Or as Jillian Bradley, a 70-year-old veteran of the lesbian nightlife scene who owns a downtown escort service, put it, ''Those girls are now dead or on blood-pressure medication.'' 
 Whatever the reasons, Ms. Fierro couldn't pay the rent, and during Gay Pride Week in late June, as a friend distributed T-shirts and baseball caps stitched with the words ''Rubyfruit -- Last Call'' to a moist-eyed Hudson Street crowd, Ms. Fierro told them she had no choice but to close it down.
 Bracing for a Bleak Summer
 A few weeks later, Ms. Fierro changed her mind. More practical thinking gave way to her sheer desire to keep Rubyfruit open, bolstered by support from neighbors and patrons. The bar stayed open and Ms. Fierro, making no promises, braced for a bleak summer. 
 Through July and August, her employees came to work not knowing whether Rubyfruit would be around for their next shift. In addition to Ms. Fierro, those employees included a few full-timers who oversaw the ranks of bartenders, servers and cooks -- workers who mostly split their time between Rubyfruit and other tasks, among them D.J. gigs, tending other bars and artistic pursuits.
 The money crunch was nowhere more evident than in its effects on two of the bar's most dedicated workers, who for the past two years have taken almost no pay. 
 One is Annette Marino, 63, who lives with her cat in Chelsea and relies mainly on Social Security. ''As long as I have money for cat food and cigarettes, I'm fine,'' Ms. Marino said. ''It stops me from doing some things I'd like to do. But you know, we're here, the bar's still open, and that's what counts.'' 
 The other worker is a woman named Miriam, who lives in Clifton, N.J., and declined to give her last name because some friends and relatives do not know she is gay. She takes no salary at all.
 Not all of the employees, though, can afford to be on the no-payment plan; they include Antonio Corona, a 49-year-old Mexican.
 ''Antonio gets paid,'' Ms. Fierro said. ''I have to make sure he gets paid.'' 
 When Ms. Fierro told Mr. Corona of the bar's imminent closing, he said he would follow her wherever she went -- to New Jersey, if it came to that. 
 Mr. Corona was working at a Midtown restaurant during Rubyfruit's early days. He speaks little English, but his brother-in-law helped get him a job at Rubyfruit as a dishwasher. ''Look, they can't pronounce your first name,'' the brother-in-law advised. ''Just tell them to call you Antonio.''
 More than a decade has passed since then, and during those years, Mr. Corona rose from a dishwasher to a cook. When Alexandra Fernandez, Ms. Fierro's partner, learned one recent afternoon that Mr. Corona's first name was, in fact, Cosme, she ran it past Ms. Fierro.
 ''He's not Antonio!'' Ms. Fernandez announced.
 ''What's his name?'' Ms. Fierro asked.
 ''It's not even Antonio.''
 ''You want me to call him something else?''
 ''Cosme,'' Ms. Fernandez replied.
 ''Cosme?'' Ms. Fierro asked, perplexed.
 ''That's his name.''
 Ms. Fierro paused. ''Should I call him Cosme?''
 ''It might not be comfortable at this point,'' Ms. Fernandez admitted.
 A Fine and Its Aftermath
 After passing through Rubyfruit's front door, a visitor can walk upstairs to the bar or downstairs to Rita Mae's, the restaurant portion of the establishment. Wednesday nights found Rita Mae's lively with song, customers and employees belting out show tunes and standards accompanied by a charmingly out-of-tune piano. 
 But one night in August, as the music played, an inspector from the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene stopped in, and finding that the bar's health department certificate had expired in June, imposed a $1,000 fine. 
 ''Honestly, I thought I was selling'' the bar, Ms. Fierro explained. ''I overlooked it.''
 Two days later, at 3:45, Ms. Fierro, Ms. Marino and Miriam climbed into Miriam's car, and the three women, fearing the inspector's return and additional fines, set about to renew the health department certificate. ''We've got 45 minutes,'' Ms. Marino announced.
 Usually, such trips are a pleasant ritual for the women, though they are also a reflection of Rubyfruit's financial difficulties. Often, the women go to Western Beef, a supermarket on 16th Street, and load steaks and chicken into the trunk of the car. Or they make their way to Jetro, a warehouse in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, in the shadow of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, where swarms of mostly male restaurant owners push around orange metal carts stacked high with wholesale food items. 
 On this day, though, the three women were headed downtown to the health department. At one point, frustrated by the Friday afternoon traffic, Ms. Fierro jumped out of the car, papers in hand, to make a run for it. But after running about 20 blocks, she changed her mind.
 ''There was a lot of traffic on the sidewalk,'' Ms. Fierro said, panting as she climbed back into the back seat. When the three women arrived at the building on John Street that houses offices for a number of city agencies, including the health department, Ms. Fierro sprinted again, to the elevator that would take her to the 11th floor.
 Ms. Fierro had arranged to meet Jimmy Baig, a former health department inspector who now works as a consultant helping business owners pay fines and deal with violations and license renewals. Mr. Baig was waiting near the health department window, looking at the clock. It was 4:30, closing time for the office.
 ''Why did you wait till the last minute?'' he asked. A minute later, after thinking it over, a female employee behind the glass reluctantly agreed to process the paperwork. Ms. Fierro grumbled a good-humored complaint about the fines. The clerk shrugged.
 ''The city needs money,'' she said.
 ''They think they're the only people who need money?'' Mr. Baig countered. 
 ''In this climate, you'd think they'd let you pay it off little by little,'' Ms. Fierro said to Mr. Baig. ''But it's so unforgiving.''
 Turning to face her, Mr. Baig said, ''You're lucky they didn't close you.''
 A Fan to the Rescue
 September began as usual for Ms. Fierro, with worries about money tempered only by her chronic good cheer. Suddenly, though, her luck changed. 
 Stacy Ledwith, a Rubyfruit D.J. and bartender with buzzed dark hair and a high, scratchy voice, arranged for Ms. Fierro to meet with a woman who Ms. Ledwith thought could help Rubyfruit. The woman, a wealthy financial consultant from Guyana who lives in Greenwich Village, was Annetta Budhu, and she had occasionally visited Rubyfruit over the years. 
 ''I happen to be a prominent gay woman,'' Ms. Budhu said one day recently. ''I said to myself, 'I have the means to do something, and I'm going to save this.' ''
 Within days, Ms. Budhu had agreed to join Ms. Fierro as a partner, laying out a plan, and the money, for Rubyfruit's physical and philosophical transformation. ''It's going to be very Zen,'' Ms. Budhu said, ''a very upscale lesbian bar, a women's lounge.''
 Ms. Fierro was hugely relieved. ''This place was a sinking ship with so many holes that couldn't be plugged up fast enough,'' she said. ''And then someone just threw a lifeboat. No, somebody drove by in a yacht.''
 The new version of the bar, to be called R.F. Lounge, would be fashionable in ways Rubyfruit was not, offering high tea, tapas, wireless Internet, fine wines and beer on tap. The bar closed for renovations in September and is scheduled to reopen in early December with a black-tie event. 
 Although many in the restaurant business live hand to mouth and cannot go for long without a job, nearly all of Ms. Fierro's employees have said they will return, and in the interim will either seek shifts elsewhere or take a vacation. 
 On a Sunday evening, the night before Rubyfruit shut down for renovations, Ms. Fierro held a party. By early evening, the place was filled with young women dancing and kissing. It was a striking change from the usual mellowness and the spare, slightly older crowd the space usually accommodated. As music pulsed, Ms. Ledwith stood on the bar and poured orange-flavored vodka into the open mouths of young women who, with their necks craned and tilted in expectation, resembled a cluster of chic baby birds.
 An evening a month earlier, however -- when the bar's uncertain future did not warrant such celebration -- perhaps gave a better sense of the old Rubyfruit, the one Ms. Fierro and her employees had worked so hard to save. 
 A few women in their 50s sat at the bar and, after a drink, began to chat with one another. It was the final night of the Democratic National Convention, when Senator Barack Obama accepted his party's nomination for president, and a large screen was rolled down from the ceiling. Because no employee was tall enough to turn on the ceiling-mounted projector, a large rainbow flag was retrieved from a corner office, and a worker jabbed the staff of the flag toward the ceiling in search of the ''on'' button.
 Patricia Avallone, a 60-year-old artist and former art teacher who moved to the neighborhood in 1979, was sitting at the far end of the bar. ''I came to the Village for the artists, the poets, the cafes,'' she said with faint melancholy. 
 She wondered aloud if the city was changing, or if she was the one who had changed. She had heard of Rubyfruit's financial difficulties, and yet the place endured, which was why she continued to come in, for a single drink, early in the evening, before going home.
 ''As I got older,'' she said, ''everything was taken away, the sweet stuff. But this, it's like a little chapel.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''I had this formula that worked,'' said Debra Fierro, below, the owner of Rubyfruit Bar and Grill. ''But then it didn't work anymore.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CY1)
Antonio Corona: ''Antonio gets paid,'' the bar's owner said. ''I have to make sure he gets paid.''
Annette Marino: ''As long as I have money for cat food and cigarettes, I'm fine.''
Stacy Ledwith, a Rubyfruit D.J. and bartender who brokered a deal that might rescue the bar.
Rubyfruit's out-of-tune piano was auctioned off, along with dishes and a cash register.
 Annetta Budhu: ''I said to myself, 'I have the means to do something.' '' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CY10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); RUNNING (77%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); ATHLETES (72%); MARATHONS (72%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



452 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Finance Students Keep Their Job Hopes Alive

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND; Amanda M. Fairbanks, Niko Koppel and Katie Zezima contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For students who set their sights on Wall Street during the boom years, the end has come just as they are getting ready to join the party. 
 Wall Street recruiters have canceled or postponed visits to elite universities like Harvard, Princeton and Stanford, citing the turmoil in the markets. 
 ''Jobs are being taken down by the day on our career services Web site,'' said Kenton Murray, 20, a senior at Princeton, where J. P. Morgan Chase, Lehman Brothers, Deutsche Bank and others canceled recruitment sessions since the start of the semester. 
 But even as the markets spiraled downward, business and finance students at top universities said they were not panicked about their futures and were confident that the financial markets would recover. For the young achievers drawn to finance, expectations die hard. 
 Mr. Murray described the mood at Princeton as cautiously optimistic. 
 ''No one I've talked to is worried about moving back home yet,'' he said. ''But everyone I know is studying for the LSATs right now, people who a month ago had no intention of ever going to law school.''
 Financial companies shed 150,000 jobs last year and more than 100,000 so far this year, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas, a national job placement company. Yet amid the downturn, applications to graduate business schools rose this year, as they have in other periods of uncertainty. 
 Adam Hallowell, 20, an economics major at Harvard, said his classmates were not overly upset by the market because they were prepared to change direction. ''Mine is a generation that's been told from high school onward, 'You're going to change careers five or six times throughout the course of your life,' '' he said. Even as the Dow plunged day after day, Mr. Hallowell said the mood on campus had not changed, adding that ''most students don't personally have stock portfolios and 401(k) plans yet, which is probably why they aren't very concerned.''
 This resilience has surprised Charissa Asbury, who runs a program at Columbia University's School of Continuing Education for graduates who want to go to business school. Ms. Asbury said she expected to see a panic among her students. Many were working on Wall Street; some had lost their jobs. 
 ''I wondered if they would say, 'Maybe this isn't the time; I don't want to spend the money if the salary is not going to be there,' '' she said. ''But instead they're even more interested in finding exactly what they need to get into a top business school. Everyone's worried about their prospects, but it's translated into, 'How do we get better credentials?' '' 
 She added, ''Now they feel, if they want to go to business school, they need to be from one of the top ones.''
 Even at Harvard, students were more attentive at sessions and resume round tables, said Robin Mount, interim director of career services. In previous years, they often spent these sessions sending text messages; this year, the sessions have been purposeful and heavily attended. Ms. Mount said she could have heard a pin drop. 
 Beverly Principal, assistant director of employment services at Stanford, said she had already seen a reduction in campus recruitment by banks, though a spokeswoman at J. P. Morgan Chase said it would continue recruiting at target universities throughout the semester. 
 When students do receive offers, they come under more scrutiny, before and after hiring, said Ronald Storch, a partner at Marcum and Kliegman, a large accounting firm. ''A couple years ago there was too much work and not enough bodies,'' Mr. Storch said. ''We were hiring just to get bodies, and people could bounce from firm to firm. Now they're not getting the same opportunities.''
 Jian Yang, 25, who is in his second year at the University of Chicago's graduate business school, recently considered his prospects in this new climate. Mr. Yang said he had friends who had lost jobs or taken internships at Lehman and Bear Stearns expecting to land full-time jobs, only to watch the companies fail. He expects to graduate with $200,000 in student debt. 
 ''It's definitely impacting the mood of the student body,'' Mr. Yang said. ''We're all watching the news every day.'' Where students in past years set their course on a single field, like investment banking, now they are looking in several areas to improve their chances, he said.
 But Mr. Yang said he was not reconsidering his career path because he felt there would still be good jobs available to people like him, who come from top schools and are willing to work abroad. He said he and his friends had not changed their lifestyles, either. ''Life kind of goes on,'' he said. 
 ''It's almost a blessing to be in school while the economy is down; it's a shelter,'' Mr. Yang added. ''So in one way I feel unlucky, because I missed the boom, but in another way I'm lucky. It's a good way to spend three years of downturn.''
 In a June poll by the Rockefeller Foundation, people ages 18 to 29 were more pessimistic about the economy than any other age group, with half saying that America was a better place in the 1990s and would continue to decline. But they did not apply this pessimism to themselves; they were most likely to say that if they work hard and play by the rules, they will be able to achieve the American Dream. 
 John Challenger, chief executive of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, said that even as investment banking suffered, opportunities remained in health care, energy, international business and consulting. ''It'll be interesting to see if the top graduates flow to other industries,'' Mr. Challenger said. ''It remains to be seen whether we'll see an increase in idealism or public service like we did after 9/11 or Hurricane Katrina.''
 For Tina Phoolka, 28, a graduate business student at Bentley College in Waltham, Mass., the new reality means staying in school, even after she earns her M.B.A. 
 ''I thought I was going to get a $100,000-plus job and everything would be great, with lots of opportunities,'' Ms. Phoolka said. ''Now I'm wondering if I should extend my graduation date, enroll in a Ph.D. program or get a dual degree. I'll probably study more or look for a job in another country.''
 For those who are out of school, the changes in the horizon have been more immediate.
 When Jon Cifuentes, 28, landed a job at Smith Barney out of college, he believed that within three years, he would be making more than $100,000 a year, reaping ever larger bonuses. 
 Then this May, after two job changes, Mr. Cifuentes lost his job in a large layoff at Nomura, an investment bank based in Asia, leaving him with a $3,000 mortgage payment and a case of disillusionment. 
 After a summer of working part time in his father's contracting business, Mr. Cifuentes now has a temporary job at Macquarie Capital Partners and is finishing his master's degree in economics. He and his wife moved into an apartment owned by his sister; they can rent theirs out. 
 ''Compared to some friends I used to work with, I'm doing well,'' Mr. Cifuentes said. ''Some guys are in their mid-40s, with a wife, kids, mortgage and a lot of bills. They're in a much worse spot.''
 Jonathan Miller, 24, who joined a midmarket investment bank in July 2007, just before the market started to fall, has also tasted the new reality. Mr. Miller had majored in philosophy and English but was drawn to banking in his senior year by the prospect of a high salary and ''something with sparkle and shine'' for his resume, he said. 
 ''When I got the job,'' Mr. Miller said, ''the recruiter told me, just don't screw up and you'll do well.'' But he and his team were laid off last month -- all now scrambling for work, along with thousands of others. 
 Mr. Miller said he thought his skills and contacts would pull him through the downturn. Asked what he was doing with the 12 to 14 hours a day he previously spent at his job, he said: ''Looking for work. I spend nine hours a day on the phone, writing e-mails, talking to headhunters. You need to be aggressive and focused. My prospects aren't terrible.'' 
 He said if he did not find a job in the next few months, he would consider graduate school or a new field of work. 
 ''I don't feel cheated,'' Mr. Miller said. ''But it's unfortunate that by lack of timing I missed it by a year or two.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jon Cifuentes came out of college thinking he would soon be making more than $100,000 a year. He now has a temporary job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Jian Yang, a second-year business graduate student at the University of Chicago, expects to graduate with $200,000 in debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA RIVKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Adam Hallowell, at Harvard, said classmates were not too upset by the market because they were ready to change direction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); CHRISTMAS (73%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); US 401K PLANS (61%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (61%); PROFESSIONAL CONTINUING EDUCATION (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



453 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Intuition + Money: An Aha Moment

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
IT started with a Harvard physicist acting on a hunch. It ended up producing a new material, called black silicon, that could have a broad impact on technologies ranging from ultrasensitive sensors to photovoltaic cells.
 On Monday, Harvard plans to announce that it has licensed patents for black silicon to SiOnyx, a company in Beverly, Mass., that has raised $11 million in venture financing.
 This would never have happened if the physicist, Eric Mazur, and his graduate students had stuck to the original purpose of their research. He says their experience offers a lesson in government financing of science and technology, which is becoming so narrow and applied as to make discoveries like theirs much less likely. 
 A more narrow focus does have its advantages: for one, it can be more likely to produce an immediate payoff. 
 But in the current research environment, ''you are less likely to be open to serendipity,'' said Judith L. Estrin, an electrical engineer and author of ''Closing the Innovation Gap: Reigniting the Spark of Creativity in a Global Economy'' (McGraw-Hill, 2008).
 Black silicon was discovered because Dr. Mazur started thinking outside the boundaries of the research he was doing in the late 1990s. His research group had been financed by the Army Research Organization to explore catalytic reactions on metallic surfaces.
 ''I got tired of metals and was worrying that my Army funding would dry up,'' he said. ''I wrote the new direction into a research proposal without thinking much about it -- I just wrote it in; I don't know why.'' And even though there wasn't an immediate practical application, he received the financing.
 It was several years before he directed a graduate student to pursue his idea, which involved shining an exceptionally powerful laser light -- briefly matching the energy produced by the sun falling on the surface of the entire earth -- on a silicon wafer. On a hunch, the researcher also applied sulfur hexafluoride, a gas used by the semiconductor industry to make etchings for circuits. 
 The silicon wafer looked black to the naked eye. But when Dr. Mazur and his researchers examined the material with an electron microscope, they discovered that the surface was covered with a forest of ultra-tiny spikes.
 At first, the researchers had no idea what they had stumbled onto, and that is typical of the way many scientific discoveries emerge. Cellophane, Teflon, Scotchgard and aspartame are among the many inventions that have emerged through some form of fortunate accident or intuition. 
 ''In science, the most exciting expression isn't 'Eureka!' It's 'Huh?''' said Michael Hawley, a computer scientist based in Cambridge, Mass., and a board member and investor in SiOnyx.
 Black silicon has since been found to have extreme sensitivity to light. It is now on the verge of commercialization, most likely first in night vision systems. 
 ''We have seen a 100 to 500 times increase in sensitivity to light compared to conventional silicon detectors,'' said James Carey, a co-founder of SiOnyx who worked on the original experiments as a Harvard graduate student.
 Dr. Mazur is an investor in SiOnyx and chairman of its scientific advisory board. As a result of his research, a number of academic and corporate research groups are still exploring the material, which absorbs about twice as much visible light as normal silicon and has the ability to detect infrared light that is invisible to the current generation of silicon detectors. 
 SiOnyx is already commercializing sensor-based chips as a technology development platform for other companies and for use in next-generation infrared imaging systems. 
 The new technology has a tremendous cost advantage in that it is compatible with current semiconductor manufacturing plants, according to Stephen Saylor, SiOnyx's chief executive. It is certain to attract broad attention from a range of industries, including scientific and medical imaging markets.
 In the future, the low cost and higher sensitivity of black silicon may also make it a contender in the multibillion-dollar digital camera and video markets, an area currently dominated by silicon and charge-coupled-device sensors.
 SiOnyx is continuing to experiment with the photovoltaic properties of black silicon, but Mr. Saylor said the company had no plans to jump into the market to become a solar cell manufacturer. ''Our engagement is going to be as a technology provider, not as a producer,'' he said.
 Instead, he is eager to get a new generation of a supersensitive light detectors into the hands of entrepreneurs and experimenters who will be able to take the technology in unpredictable directions.
 AND that is how this technology got to where it is today. To Dr. Mazur, that should be a lesson to technology funding agencies like the National Science Foundation and the Defense Advanced Projects Research Agency of the Pentagon.
 ''This is a very strong case in point for funding science for the advancement of science,'' he said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Slipstream column last Sunday, about the importance of hunches in making scientific discoveries, misstated the name of a Pentagon agency that finances scientific research. It is the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, not the Defense Advanced Projects Research Agency.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Carey, left, and Stephen Saylor of SiOnyx with black silicon wafers. Harvard plans to announce it has licensed patents for black silicon to the company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (79%); ENGINEERING (77%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (77%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); PATENTS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (75%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); ARMIES (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (67%); WRITERS (67%); ELECTRON MICROSCOPES (67%); ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



454 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; FROM THE FARM; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Fresh Food Deliverer Capitalizing on a Trend

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

DATELINE: East Haddam 

 BODY:
 IT'S 8 o'clock on the nose, on a rainy Friday night, as Deb Marsden pulls her tangerine-colored Honda Element into her driveway here. The GPS unit, for the first time in hours, has stopped chattering. Coolers stacked in the car's cargo space are empty. The Connecticut Farm Fresh Express has finished another week.
 Started by Ms. Marsden in February, Farm Fresh Express (www.ctffe.com) is a conceptual cross between Stop & Shop's Peapod and a personal shopper delivering Connecticut-grown and -produced items literally to people's doors year round. With advantages for both farmers and consumers, it is another indicator of how deep the market for fresh, local, seasonal food has become in this state.
 When she first approached farmers with the idea, Ms. Marsden said, she laughed when they told her, ''You're going to be so busy you're not even going to believe it.'' 
 Since then she's up to a couple of dozen vendors. She has lost count but figures her distribution list is up to several hundred, netting three to four dozen deliveries a week -- mostly individuals and a few restaurants. She has hired her son's girlfriend to help handle the increasing volume. She is considering expanding her delivery area, currently New London, Middlesex and New Haven Counties, to other parts of the state. And she's still laughing.
 ''Some people go to Wal-Mart and buy their food, and some people think that it's better to do this,'' she said. ''I'm absolutely amazed at how many people actually want to be on the list.''
 It's not that Ms. Marsden, 56, a graphic designer by trade, is an evangelical foodie, though she did raise her two sons on organic food in the 1970s when it was difficult and costly. The idea came from a podcast about a California company that delivers community-supported agriculture produce. ''I listened to the podcast -- twice -- and then I started to talk about it,'' she said. ''I thought I could do it better.''
 Instead of giving clients whatever is available with minimal choice, Ms. Marsden offers a huge array of produce, cheese, meat, poultry, seafood, eggs, baked goods, honey, syrup and more, as well as specific farms to choose from. Items change based on availability and season. Some are organic, some not. She said she has been amazed by the breadth of what Connecticut has -- year-round hydroponic greens, fresh figs, edamame, okra, homemade tofu, meats from lamb to duck to rabbit -- plus all the usual fruits, vegetables and cheeses.
 Customers are e-mailed a product list weekly. Their choices are forwarded to the farms, which charge Ms. Marsden wholesale rates. Consumers pay a farmers' market retail price plus a delivery fee based on their distance from Ms. Marsden's home -- $5.25 to $15 (so far) and $25 for restaurants.
 Once the orders come in, it's a three-day blitz: farm pickups from the Hartford area to the southeastern shoreline; packing orders into coolers and baskets from the staging area in Ms. Marsden's basement, where an antique spring scale is used for weighing produce; and then deliveries.
 There is the occasional scrambling when farmers don't have promised items. One week blueberries ran out, and on another particularly problematic delivery cycle, half the corn and a couple of dozen eggs were missing, the squash didn't quite sort out the way it was supposed to, the baker had a batch of bread flop, and some of the seafood leaked, leaving Ms. Marsden's Element smelling like low tide. The Connecticut Farm Fresh Express is at times more jigsaw puzzle than fresh food enterprise.
 Which is one reason customers are happy to pay Ms. Marsden to handle the logistics. ''It's the idea that I could shop at all these farmers' markets but not shop at all the farmers' markets,'' said Karen Anderson, 45, a freelance writer from New London as she unpacked scallops from Stonington, bread from Middlefield, greens from Hamden, cheeses from Lebanon and Colchester, and green peppers, zucchini and garlic from New Britain. ''That's a lot of gas mileage.''
 Saving gas and time while being able to reach far-flung parts of the state are the biggest lures for farmers. ''It pretty much opened a nice chunk of market for us,'' said Ken Zaborowski, general manager of Urban Oaks, a multiproduct New Britain organic farm (including those figs) that does not deliver east of the Connecticut River. ''We'd love to see someone else follow her model in other parts of the state.''
 Perry Hack, the owner of a hydroponic greens operation called 2 Guys From Woodbridge, which is actually in Hamden, said Ms. Marsden solves his biggest problem, distribution. ''If she could do more for me I would do it,'' Mr. Hack said. ''She's filled a void.''
 Ms. Marsden isn't the first to try this. Last year, Mary Beth Draghi of Littel Acres farm in Glastonbury started a farm delivery service for restaurants, but gave up after one season. ''The problem is that the Connecticut growing season is not consistent,'' she said. ''You're promising items that you are not 99 percent sure you're going to have.''
 That is a problem for restaurants with a set menu, but not necessarily for individuals. Most say the convenience of the service and the assurance of getting fresh, local food are more important than knowing that they can get a specific item.
 For many, Farm Fresh Express has been a revelation.
 ''It made me aware of how much I was spending at a big store that I didn't need to be buying,'' said Dorica Nevin, a psychologist in Moodus, noting the pitfalls of wandering up and down store aisles.
 Denice Feeley, 41, a stay-at-home mom who also lives in Moodus, said the convenience was what initially attracted her to the service. Learning about new and fresh foods has been a bonus. 
 ''My kids now eat beets,'' she said. ''My husband eats beet greens.'' 
 Debra Southworth, 53, of Old Lyme, said that what was most important to her was knowing that she could get the organic items she wanted and support the local economy as well.
 ''It's all good,'' she said. ''Win, win.''
 For Ms. Marsden, the fun has been meeting farmers and customers and thinking that one day she will need a fleet of tangerine Elements. ''I've always said since the beginning of this, 'When I stop having fun, I'm not doing it anymore,' '' she said. ''I might have to change the way I say that. When I don't like it anymore, I'm going to hire more people to do the part that I don't like.''
 And on that rainy Friday night, she didn't hesitate: ''Yeah, it's still fun.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAKING HER ROUNDS: Clockwise from above: Deb Marsden delivers a food order to Urban Oaks Organic Farm, New Britain
visits the Bridge, a Middletown tofu producer, for a pickup
stops at a home, far right and lower right, to make another delivery
 and takes food items into her basement to sort, below, with help from Erin Sharpe, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); MEATS (89%); RETAILERS (75%); CHEESE MFG (75%); CHEESE (74%); ORGANIC FOODS (74%); POULTRY (74%); RESTAURANTS (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%); PODCASTING (61%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (72%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



455 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: N.B.A. and Partner to Help Build 12 Arenas in China

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The N.B.A. and AEG will announce on Sunday plans to design and operate at least a dozen arenas in China, extending the league's presence in its largest foreign market. The arenas could form the infrastructure of an N.B.A.-branded league in China.
 Under their plan, the league and AEG will make modest cash investments in the arenas, but their expertise will give them substantial ownership stakes in the buildings. 
 The arenas are to be financed largely by local and provincial governments.
 ''We won't do this without an economic return over time for AEG and the N.B.A.,'' said Timothy J. Leiweke, the president and chief executive of AEG.
 He and David Stern, the N.B.A. commissioner, will announce the joint venture before the Nets-Heat exhibition game at the O2 arena in London.
 Stern said the league was looking to capitalize on a growing urban Chinese middle class with increasing disposal income. 
 ''China is an enormous market with enormous potential, not only for basketball but for entertainment venues,'' he said in an interview.
 The league and AEG are partners in the Beijing arena where basketball was played at the Summer Olympics in August. They are looking at building arenas in major cities like Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen. The arenas will be designed to accommodate a broad range of uses beyond basketball.
 ''We see these venues as homes for basketball teams, hopefully, in a league that is a partnership between the N.B.A. and the China Basketball Association,'' Stern said.
 The arenas are envisioned as 19,000-seat facilities, some extravagant and some modest, that would be part of entertainment districts in some of the largest Chinese cities.
 ''Our issue is which 12 do we choose?'' Leiweke said in an interview last week from Dubai. ''I think we'll have 30 or 40 of these opportunities, and 15 will make sense. Within a week, you'll hear of some of the markets we'll jump into.''
 AEG, a subsidiary of the Anschutz Company, runs or owns more than 90 arenas and other facilities around the world, including Staples Center in Los Angeles, the O2 in London, the O2 World arena in Berlin and the Prudential Center in Newark.
 Stern and Leiweke acknowledged the global credit crunch pushing world economies into a recession but said their arena-building goals were long-term. 
 ''Projects like these are marathons, and whatever cycle we're in, we'll come out of it,'' Leiweke said. 
 Stern said that Chinese officials had not yet shown skittishness at financing arenas in the face of the drastically altered world economy. Adam Silver, the N.B.A.'s deputy commissioner, said, ''Hard assets like these in China might be good places for global investment.''
 Although China has not been immune to the recession, ''it has been one of the growth spots in the world economy,'' said John Frisbie, the president of the United States-China Business Council, a nonprofit group that represents American companies doing business in China. 
 ''The fundamentals of the Chinese economy seem good for U.S. companies,'' he said.
 Although the league expects slight growth in the United States this year, Silver said that it was looking for a 30 percent increase in revenue from China
 ''We're taking advantage of the boom in basketball coming out of the Beijing,'' he said, ''Despite the terrible economy, the timing is good to make this announcement.''
 The N.B.A.'s business interests in China have been growing for nearly 30 years. The league has 100 employees in four cities, and 15 marketing partners. A third of the online traffic to NBA.com comes from the Mandarin Chinese part of the site, and league merchandise is sold at 30,000 retailers in China, among them two NBA Stores.
 In addition, N.B.A. games are available on 51 networks in China. where 1.6 billion viewers watched league programming last season. One of China's leading exports, Yao Ming, is an All-Star center with the Houston Rockets, and Yi Jianlian, a 20-year-old forward, is seen as a liaison between the Nets and the region's Chinese-American community.
 Last year, the league created N.B.A. China, a subsidiary with five investors -- the Walt Disney Company and four Chinese partners that paid $253 million. The league's contribution to the arenas will come from that money. 
 ''This is not only a content play, but a development, facility and real estate play,'' Leiweke said. ''The N.B.A. is thinking out of the box, beyond basketball. Its brand in China is amazing. If you go to China, you get an appreciation for what they've built.''
 The league and AEG did not realize that they were each working separately on arena-development strategies until the Boston-Minnesota preseason game in London last October. 
 ''We realized it made more sense for us to be partners,'' Stern said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An NBA Store in Beijing is one of the signs of the league's growing interest in China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG KANTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); OLYMPICS (68%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (86%); NEW JERSEY NETS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (51%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (51%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



456 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; THE CITY VISIBLE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: The Days of His Life

BYLINE: By DAVID SHAFTEL

 BODY:
AS a senior at Bard College in 1979, Jamie Livingston acquired a Polaroid camera. After a few weeks, he noticed that he was taking about one picture a day, and shortly thereafter he decided to continue doing so. 
 The project, which quickly evolved into something of an obsession, began with a snapshot of Mindy Goldstein, Mr. Livingston's girlfriend at the time, along with another friend, both of them smiling at something outside the frame. It ended 18 years and more than 6,000 photos later with a self-portrait of the photographer on his deathbed on his 41st birthday.
 The narrative that unfolds between those two images tells the story not only of the friendships Mr. Livingston forged over the years but also the evolution of a city. It charts New York's progression from an era of urban decay and fiscal crisis to a place characterized by the economic recovery that had arrived by the time of Mr. Livingston's death, of melanoma, in 1997. This was especially true downtown, where he lived for much of the period covered in the photographs.
 Before Mr. Livingston died, his friends Hugh Crawford and Betsy Reid promised they would not let the project die with him. To commemorate the 10th anniversary of their friend's death, they digitally photographed the Polaroids and reproduced them for an exhibition at Bard, in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. 
 Mr. Crawford also loaded the images onto a Web site (photooftheday.hughcrawford.com) so they could be experienced in their entirety. 
 As the cityscape has changed, many of the pictures have accrued meaning. ''They often don't mean anything by themselves,'' Mr. Crawford said. ''But when you put them all together, they take on a life of their own.''
 Ms. Reid, who met Mr. Livingston in 1985, cited other benefits of the collection. ''When I look at a picture that I was involved in or know about,'' she said, ''you're just sent right back in time and you just remember everything about that day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE CITY VISIBLE: SEPT. 24, 1986
MARCH 27, 1986
MARCH 27, 1980
MARCH 30, 1985
All the photos to date.
SEPT. 8, 1992: Hugh, Louise and Henry Crawford.
JAN. 10, 1986: FEB. 9, 1989: Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones.
MARCH 4, 1983
JAN. 19, 1985
 MARCH 4, 1983 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE LIVINGSTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%); SKIN CANCER (54%)

PERSON: KEITH RICHARDS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



457 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; CONSUMER PROTECTION; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Pitfalls of Using Unlicensed Contractors

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
IN northern Westchester, a home improvement firm accepted deposits for chimney repairs but never returned to do the job, according to the county's Department of Consumer Protection. 
 In Yonkers, a pool company pulled a similar disappearing act with some of its customers. 
 In Ardsley, a contractor charged several hundred thousand dollars to build a garage but neglected to pay his subcontractors, leaving the homeowner legally liable for their back pay. 
 And for $250,000, a client in Mount Vernon ended up with an unfinished and poorly sealed addition to her home, which led to a severe infestation of rodents. 
 In all of these cases, the contractors were unlicensed.
 ''They should have checked with us first,'' Gary S. Brown, Westchester's director of consumer protection, said, referring to the homeowners. ''They could have avoided a lot of grief.''
 Home improvement complaints have ranked as the top consumer problem in Westchester for several years, and the vast majority involved unlicensed contractors, Mr. Brown said. 
 To reduce the incidence of such cases, inspectors from the department have conducted sweeps to rout out unlicensed and often unscrupulous contractors. Its most recent two-week sweep, in late September, netted 23 home improvement contractors who have since been charged with operating a business without a license and face fines from $1,000 for a first violation to $10,000 for a third offense. 
 During that sweep, inspections were done at 273 work sites throughout the county.
 Contractors who are not licensed by the county are initially issued a ticket and must appear before a Consumer Protection Department hearing officer.
 For a second offense, the department also has the legal power, under a county search and seizure law that took effect in January, to confiscate a contractor's equipment, which it recently did in the case of Agustin Chavez Landscaping of New Rochelle. He was first cited in a sweep in June.
 ''When we found him at it again, we seized Mr. Chavez's truck and tools and fined him $4,500,'' Mr. Brown said. The landscaper has since applied for a license, the department said.
 The district attorney's office, which is pursuing misdemeanor charges against at least two unlicensed contractors, can pursue felony charges if it can prove a contractor's intent to defraud.
 More than 7,300 licensed contractors work in the county, a record number, despite the economic downturn, Mr. Brown said. But most of the jobs, he said, are small -- roof repairs and replacements, for example, as opposed to big-ticket items like additions and kitchen remodeling.
 In addition to Westchester, licensing or registration of contractors is required in Nassau, Suffolk, Rockland and Putnam Counties, as well as in New York City. To qualify for a license in Westchester, contractors must pass a background check, have adequate insurance (most home insurers will not cover damage done by unlicensed contractors) and supply proof of financial responsibility. 
 The department also urges consumers to check out subcontractors who work for established suppliers -- Home Depot, for example -- which lend their names to smaller companies. Sometimes that arrangement is struck to attract customers to the larger firm's lucrative loan business, but the subcontractor may not be licensed. 
 The Consumer Protection Department recommends that property owners get written estimates and three current references from at least three contractors. It advises homeowners to put everything in writing, including a complete description of the work to be done and the cost of labor and materials and a payment schedule. 
 Most of all, the department warns, homeowners should shy away from extremely low bids. It may be an indication that the contractor is overeager for the business, made a mistake in preparing the bid or is not including all the work quoted by other bidders. 
 For further information, and to find out if a contracting company has a history of complaints filed against it, consumers can check online at www.westchestergov.com/consumer or call (914) 995-2155.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CHECKUP: Vincent A. Cassels inspects a contractor's license. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME REMODELING (92%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (87%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); FELONIES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); LICENSES & PERMITS (74%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (74%); INSPECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); RODENTS (70%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); INSURANCE (60%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (60%); BACK PAY (56%); ASSET FORFEITURE (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



458 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours: New York City

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

 BODY:
THOUGH New Yorkers were recently brought up short by the financial crisis, with no one quite knowing just how bad it would be, one thing this city has going for it is its resiliency. Yes, there are worries about 401(k)s and mortgage payments -- and perhaps a second thought about spending time in clubs with $300 bottle service -- but there are still plenty of reasons not to stay at home watching CNBC, from new restaurants featuring ever-more inventive menus to hipster hangouts colonizing yet another part of Brooklyn. Historians might look back at 2008 as the year that Wall Street tanked; trend-seeking visitors may remember it as the year they had their first sip of a black maamba.
 Friday
 4 p.m. 1)LOWER EAST SIDE ART 
 In the last few years, the Lower East Side has emerged as among hottest gallery scenes in the city, but for visitors the best sites can be tricky to find. Now, a colorful map by the area's Business Improvement District and GalleryBar -- hot off the presses on Sept. 24 -- plots 54 galleries and art institutions, Web sites included. They range from the (relatively) established Clemente Soto Velez Cultural and Educational Center to brand-new, like gallery nine5, open this year. The map is available in hotels and at www.lowereastsideny.com. If it's the art of shopping that you're interested in, there are plenty of shops nearby that should satisfy that craving, among them the superhip Upper Echelon Shoes (100 Forsyth Street; 212-925-8330), which sells casual designer shoes. (P. Diddy wore them to the BET Awards last year.)
 8 p.m. 2)THREE STARS, PART 1
 So far, the Times restaurant critic, Frank Bruni, has awarded three stars to only five restaurants that opened in 2008. Among them was Scarpetta (355 West 14th Street; 212-691-0555; www.scarpettanyc.com), the new Italian spot that shows off Scott Conant's refined mastery of the tomato (Mr. Bruni particularly praised the spaghetti al pomodoro). Linger over dinner either in the buzzing back dining room or the friendly bar area and then walk around the neighborhood whose hotness was only slightly tempered by its obligatory appearance in ''Sex and the City.''
 11 p.m. 3) SHANGHAI 1930
 The roof space of the Peninsula Hotel got an overhaul this year, and after adding Chinese daybeds on the patios and Chinese contemporary art on the walls, reopened this May as the Salon de Ning (700 Fifth Avenue; 212-956-2888; www.salondening.com). Sure, naming a high-end bar after a completely fictional 1930s Shanghai socialite and art collector is verging on absurd. But especially if you land one of the few lucky tables overlooking the Museum of Modern Art sculpture garden and order a gin and elderberry-liqueur flavored Ninglet, though, you'll forget the gimmick and appreciate the place for what it is: not a nostalgic throwback to 1930s China but a depiction of upscale New York 2008.
 Saturday
 11 a.m. 4)BRUNCH BEYOND MIMOSAS
 The chef Maximo Tejada introduced freestyle Latino cuisine in Rayuela (165 Allen Street; 212-253-8840; www.rayuelanyc.com) in 2007 on the Lower East Side; now he has followed up two blocks north with Macondo (157 East Houston Street; 212-473-9900; www.macondonyc.com), where he brings pan-Latin dishes inspired by street food into a setting that bursts with downtown energy. Among the choices: Spanish churros with chocolate, a Peruvian quinoa and octopus salad, the Dominican farmer's breakfast of mangu, fried cheese, fried eggs and fried salami. Having a cocktail is a good idea even if you don't normally drink before noon: the drinks come small but cheap ($7.50), perfect for brunch and with combinations creatively tropical, like guava and rye or tamarind and tequila.
 3 p.m. 5)CONTROVERSIAL REBIRTH
 Last month, the museum formerly known as the American Craft Museum (a k a that other museum near the Museum of Modern Art) reopened with a new, grander name -- the Museum of Arts and Design -- into 54,000 square feet of space at 2 Columbus Circle (212-299-7777; www.madmuseum.org). The redesign of the exterior, with its terra-cotta tiles and ribbons of glass, was pilloried by many architecture critics. Judge for yourself and then check out exhibitions like ''Second Lives,'' works from contemporary artists who turn common objects like telephone books and eyeglasses into art.
 7 p.m. 6)THREE STARS, PART 2
 How often do you get a chance to eat in a three-star restaurant without 1) making reservations and 2) spending an arm and a leg? Jean-Georges Vongerichten, whose other restaurants can cost you multiple metaphorical limbs, brought in the celebrated Japanese restaurateurs Yoshi, Masa and Taka Matsushita as partners to open Matsugen (241 Church Street; 212-925-0202; www.jean-georges.com), where walk-ins have a 32-seat communal table reserved just for them. Among the highlights: freshly made soba noodles of three different thicknesses and various sauces (most under $20) and appetizers like house-made ''firm tofu'' ($10), which has a custard-like consistency.
 10 p.m. 7)OVER TO BROOKLYN
 One of the best trends in recent years has been the bars dedicated to reviving the high art of the cocktail, helping New Yorkers erase a decade-long hangover from awful flavored martinis. This year the trend jumped East River, bringing the Clover Club (210 Smith Street, Cobble Hill; 718-855-7939; www.cloverclubny.com) to Brooklyn. The dark wood, leather banquettes and pressed-tin ceiling evoke old school with a light touch. Best of all, drinks with names like the black maamba are all $10 or $11, a pleasant surprise for anyone used to paying that much in Manhattan for a generic gin and tonic.
 Midnight 8)IT TOLLS FOR HIPSTERS
 It wouldn't be 21st-century New York if some new Brooklyn neighborhood weren't getting buzz as the next hipster landing pad. Bell House (149 Seventh Street, Gowanus; 718-643-6510; www.thebellhouseny.com), opened in September, helping introduce the Gowanus area -- with its requisite dark streets and industrial spaces -- as the latest candidate. Its first month featured an almost undefinably eclectic lineup, from burlesque to hip-hop to the moody New Zealand guitar band the Veils, to play in a cavernous hall fitting about 400. If the show of the night is not to your liking, retreat to the much smaller-scale, warmly lighted and comfy-slick bar to analyze how the scene is shaping up.
 Sunday
 Noon 9)BURGER BRUNCH
 You don't really need five napkins to clean yourself off after the house specialty burger at 5 Napkin Burger (630 Ninth Avenue; 212-757-2277; www.fivenapkinburger.com), bursting as it is with juice and rosemary aioli and caramelized onions; do your part for the environment and lick your fingers instead. The June opening of this Hell's Kitchen (a k a Clinton) spot, and its subsequent crowds, show that the New York appetite for upscale hamburgers did not level off in 2008.
 3 p.m. 10)POST-BURGER REVIVAL
 Just because it's new doesn't mean it's not old. Critics raved about the revivals of the musical ''South Pacific'' and the play ''Boeing-Boeing,'' and both won Tony Awards -- ''South Pacific'' for best musical revival and ''Boeing-Boeing'' for best revival of a play and best performance by a leading actor in a play. ''South Pacific,'' a Rodgers and Hammerstein classic (at the Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center; tickets at Telecharge, 212-239-6200; www.telecharge.com), opened on April 3 and was called ''rapturous'' by the New York Times critic Ben Brantley. ''Boeing-Boeing'' (Longacre Theater, also Telecharge) opened on May 4 and quickly outlasted its original 1965 Broadway run (a mere 23 performances). Mr. Brantley called it ''deliciously, deliriously innocent,'' pretty good for a comedy about an American in Paris juggling love affairs with three flight attendants.
 THE BASICS
 New York is served by three major airports: John F. Kennedy International, La Guardia and Newark Liberty International. A taxi ride from J.F.K. into Midtown will cost a flat fee of $45, plus tolls and tip; around $35 (including tolls and tip) from La Guardia; and about $50 (including tolls and tip) from Newark. There is also train service from both J.F.K. and Newark airports: the AirTrain JFK ($5 each way), which links to either the Long Island Rail Road or the New York subway system in Jamaica, and the AirTrain Newark ($15), which takes passengers as far as Penn Station. There are also bus and shuttle services.
 For those with money to burn (i.e., those who have been keeping their savings under the pillow rather than in the stock market), the Plaza Hotel (Fifth Avenue at Central Park South; 888-850-0900; www.fairmont.com/theplaza) reopened this year after a renovation that turned most of the iconic building into apartments but left 282 hotel rooms that start at $755.
 Down Madison Avenue in Murray Hill, Morgans Hotel (237 Madison Avenue; 212-686-0300; www.morganshotel.com) also reopened after renovations, which include a lobby installation by the French design collective Trafik. Rooms start at $299.
 One company betting on New York's future is the Wyndham Hotel Group (www.wyndhamworldwide.com), which has five hotels under construction in Manhattan, three scheduled to open later this year: one in Chelsea, one on Maiden Lane in the financial district and one in Midtown. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the 36 Hours column on Oct. 12 about New York City misstated the taxi fare from Newark Liberty International Airport to Midtown. It is about $50, excluding tolls and tip -- not including tolls and tip.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM LEFT: Mixing cocktails at the Clover Club in Brooklyn
music at the Bell House in Brooklyn
the rooftop Salon de Ning in Manhattan
 makeup time for actresses in ''Boeing-Boeing.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW TIMES) MAP: Manhattan, New York 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); FOOTWEAR (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); HISTORY (70%); ART COLLECTING (68%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (62%)

PERSON: SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



459 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE FOOD ISSUE; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 8332 words

HEADLINE: Farmer In Chief

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAN. 
Michael Pollan, a contributing writer for the magazine, is the Knight Professor of Journalism at the University of California, Berkeley. He is the author, most recently, of ''In Defense of Food: An Eater's Manifesto.''

 BODY:
Dear Mr. President-Elect,
 It may surprise you to learn that among the issues that will occupy much of your time in the coming years is one you barely mentioned during the campaign: food. Food policy is not something American presidents have had to give much thought to, at least since the Nixon administration -- the last time high food prices presented a serious political peril. Since then, federal policies to promote maximum production of the commodity crops (corn, soybeans, wheat and rice) from which most of our supermarket foods are derived have succeeded impressively in keeping prices low and food more or less off the national political agenda. But with a suddenness that has taken us all by surprise, the era of cheap and abundant food appears to be drawing to a close. What this means is that you, like so many other leaders through history, will find yourself confronting the fact -- so easy to overlook these past few years -- that the health of a nation's food system is a critical issue of national security. Food is about to demand your attention. 
 Complicating matters is the fact that the price and abundance of food are not the only problems we face; if they were, you could simply follow Nixon's example, appoint a latter-day Earl Butz as your secretary of agriculture and instruct him or her to do whatever it takes to boost production. But there are reasons to think that the old approach won't work this time around; for one thing, it depends on cheap energy that we can no longer count on. For another, expanding production of industrial agriculture today would require you to sacrifice important values on which you did campaign. Which brings me to the deeper reason you will need not simply to address food prices but to make the reform of the entire food system one of the highest priorities of your administration: unless you do, you will not be able to make significant progress on the health care crisis, energy independence or climate change. Unlike food, these are issues you did campaign on -- but as you try to address them you will quickly discover that the way we currently grow, process and eat food in America goes to the heart of all three problems and will have to change if we hope to solve them. Let me explain.
 After cars, the food system uses more fossil fuel than any other sector of the economy -- 19 percent. And while the experts disagree about the exact amount, the way we feed ourselves contributes more greenhouse gases to the atmosphere than anything else we do -- as much as 37 percent, according to one study. Whenever farmers clear land for crops and till the soil, large quantities of carbon are released into the air. But the 20th-century industrialization of agriculture has increased the amount of greenhouse gases emitted by the food system by an order of magnitude; chemical fertilizers (made from natural gas), pesticides (made from petroleum), farm machinery, modern food processing and packaging and transportation have together transformed a system that in 1940 produced 2.3 calories of food energy for every calorie of fossil-fuel energy it used into one that now takes 10 calories of fossil-fuel energy to produce a single calorie of modern supermarket food. Put another way, when we eat from the industrial-food system, we are eating oil and spewing greenhouse gases. This state of affairs appears all the more absurd when you recall that every calorie we eat is ultimately the product of photosynthesis -- a process based on making food energy from sunshine. There is hope and possibility in that simple fact.
 In addition to the problems of climate change and America's oil addiction, you have spoken at length on the campaign trail of the health care crisis. Spending on health care has risen from 5 percent of national income in 1960 to 16 percent today, putting a significant drag on the economy. The goal of ensuring the health of all Americans depends on getting those costs under control. There are several reasons health care has gotten so expensive, but one of the biggest, and perhaps most tractable, is the cost to the system of preventable chronic diseases. Four of the top 10 killers in America today are chronic diseases linked to diet: heart disease, stroke, Type 2 diabetes and cancer. It is no coincidence that in the years national spending on health care went from 5 percent to 16 percent of national income, spending on food has fallen by a comparable amount -- from 18 percent of household income to less than 10 percent. While the surfeit of cheap calories that the U.S. food system has produced since the late 1970s may have taken food prices off the political agenda, this has come at a steep cost to public health. You cannot expect to reform the health care system, much less expand coverage, without confronting the public-health catastrophe that is the modern American diet.
 The impact of the American food system on the rest of the world will have implications for your foreign and trade policies as well. In the past several months more than 30 nations have experienced food riots, and so far one government has fallen. Should high grain prices persist and shortages develop, you can expect to see the pendulum shift decisively away from free trade, at least in food. Nations that opened their markets to the global flood of cheap grain (under pressure from previous administrations as well as the World Bank and the I.M.F.) lost so many farmers that they now find their ability to feed their own populations hinges on decisions made in Washington (like your predecessor's precipitous embrace of biofuels) and on Wall Street. They will now rush to rebuild their own agricultural sectors and then seek to protect them by erecting trade barriers. Expect to hear the phrases ''food sovereignty'' and ''food security'' on the lips of every foreign leader you meet. Not only the Doha round, but the whole cause of free trade in agriculture is probably dead, the casualty of a cheap food policy that a scant two years ago seemed like a boon for everyone. It is one of the larger paradoxes of our time that the very same food policies that have contributed to overnutrition in the first world are now contributing to undernutrition in the third. But it turns out that too much food can be nearly as big a problem as too little -- a lesson we should keep in mind as we set about designing a new approach to food policy.
 Rich or poor, countries struggling with soaring food prices are being forcibly reminded that food is a national-security issue. When a nation loses the ability to substantially feed itself, it is not only at the mercy of global commodity markets but of other governments as well. At issue is not only the availability of food, which may be held hostage by a hostile state, but its safety: as recent scandals in China demonstrate, we have little control over the safety of imported foods. The deliberate contamination of our food presents another national-security threat. At his valedictory press conference in 2004, Tommy Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, offered a chilling warning, saying, ''I, for the life of me, cannot understand why the terrorists have not attacked our food supply, because it is so easy to do.''
 This, in brief, is the bad news: the food and agriculture policies you've inherited -- designed to maximize production at all costs and relying on cheap energy to do so -- are in shambles, and the need to address the problems they have caused is acute. The good news is that the twinned crises in food and energy are creating a political environment in which real reform of the food system may actually be possible for the first time in a generation. The American people are paying more attention to food today than they have in decades, worrying not only about its price but about its safety, its provenance and its healthfulness. There is a gathering sense among the public that the industrial-food system is broken. Markets for alternative kinds of food -- organic, local, pasture-based, humane -- are thriving as never before. All this suggests that a political constituency for change is building and not only on the left: lately, conservative voices have also been raised in support of reform. Writing of the movement back to local food economies, traditional foods (and family meals) and more sustainable farming, The American Conservative magazine editorialized last summer that ''this is a conservative cause if ever there was one.'' 
 There are many moving parts to the new food agenda I'm urging you to adopt, but the core idea could not be simpler: we need to wean the American food system off its heavy 20th-century diet of fossil fuel and put it back on a diet of contemporary sunshine. True, this is easier said than done -- fossil fuel is deeply implicated in everything about the way we currently grow food and feed ourselves. To put the food system back on sunlight will require policies to change how things work at every link in the food chain: in the farm field, in the way food is processed and sold and even in the American kitchen and at the American dinner table. Yet the sun still shines down on our land every day, and photosynthesis can still work its wonders wherever it does. If any part of the modern economy can be freed from its dependence on oil and successfully resolarized, surely it is food. 
 How We Got Here
 Before setting out an agenda for reforming the food system, it's important to understand how that system came to be -- and also to appreciate what, for all its many problems, it has accomplished. What our food system does well is precisely what it was designed to do, which is to produce cheap calories in great abundance. It is no small thing for an American to be able to go into a fast-food restaurant and to buy a double cheeseburger, fries and a large Coke for a price equal to less than an hour of labor at the minimum wage -- indeed, in the long sweep of history, this represents a remarkable achievement. 
 It must be recognized that the current food system -- characterized by monocultures of corn and soy in the field and cheap calories of fat, sugar and feedlot meat on the table -- is not simply the product of the free market. Rather, it is the product of a specific set of government policies that sponsored a shift from solar (and human) energy on the farm to fossil-fuel energy. 
 Did you notice when you flew over Iowa during the campaign how the land was completely bare -- black -- from October to April? What you were seeing is the agricultural landscape created by cheap oil. In years past, except in the dead of winter, you would have seen in those fields a checkerboard of different greens: pastures and hayfields for animals, cover crops, perhaps a block of fruit trees. Before the application of oil and natural gas to agriculture, farmers relied on crop diversity (and photosynthesis) both to replenish their soil and to combat pests, as well as to feed themselves and their neighbors. Cheap energy, however, enabled the creation of monocultures, and monocultures in turn vastly increased the productivity both of the American land and the American farmer; today the typical corn-belt farmer is single-handedly feeding 140 people. 
 This did not occur by happenstance. After World War II, the government encouraged the conversion of the munitions industry to fertilizer -- ammonium nitrate being the main ingredient of both bombs and chemical fertilizer -- and the conversion of nerve-gas research to pesticides. The government also began subsidizing commodity crops, paying farmers by the bushel for all the corn, soybeans, wheat and rice they could produce. One secretary of agriculture after another implored them to plant ''fence row to fence row'' and to ''get big or get out.'' 
 The chief result, especially after the Earl Butz years, was a flood of cheap grain that could be sold for substantially less than it cost farmers to grow because a government check helped make up the difference. As this artificially cheap grain worked its way up the food chain, it drove down the price of all the calories derived from that grain: the high-fructose corn syrup in the Coke, the soy oil in which the potatoes were fried, the meat and cheese in the burger. 
 Subsidized monocultures of grain also led directly to monocultures of animals: since factory farms could buy grain for less than it cost farmers to grow it, they could now fatten animals more cheaply than farmers could. So America's meat and dairy animals migrated from farm to feedlot, driving down the price of animal protein to the point where an American can enjoy eating, on average, 190 pounds of meat a year -- a half pound every day. 
 But if taking the animals off farms made a certain kind of economic sense, it made no ecological sense whatever: their waste, formerly regarded as a precious source of fertility on the farm, became a pollutant -- factory farms are now one of America's biggest sources of pollution. As Wendell Berry has tartly observed, to take animals off farms and put them on feedlots is to take an elegant solution -- animals replenishing the fertility that crops deplete -- and neatly divide it into two problems: a fertility problem on the farm and a pollution problem on the feedlot. The former problem is remedied with fossil-fuel fertilizer; the latter is remedied not at all. 
 What was once a regional food economy is now national and increasingly global in scope -- thanks again to fossil fuel. Cheap energy -- for trucking food as well as pumping water -- is the reason New York City now gets its produce from California rather than from the ''Garden State'' next door, as it did before the advent of Interstate highways and national trucking networks. More recently, cheap energy has underwritten a globalized food economy in which it makes (or rather, made) economic sense to catch salmon in Alaska, ship it to China to be filleted and then ship the fillets back to California to be eaten; or one in which California and Mexico can profitably swap tomatoes back and forth across the border; or Denmark and the United States can trade sugar cookies across the Atlantic. About that particular swap the economist Herman Daly once quipped, ''Exchanging recipes would surely be more efficient.'' 
 Whatever we may have liked about the era of cheap, oil-based food, it is drawing to a close. Even if we were willing to continue paying the environmental or public-health price, we're not going to have the cheap energy (or the water) needed to keep the system going, much less expand production. But as is so often the case, a crisis provides opportunity for reform, and the current food crisis presents opportunities that must be seized.
 In drafting these proposals, I've adhered to a few simple principles of what a 21st-century food system needs to do. First, your administration's food policy must strive to provide a healthful diet for all our people; this means focusing on the quality and diversity (and not merely the quantity) of the calories that American agriculture produces and American eaters consume. Second, your policies should aim to improve the resilience, safety and security of our food supply. Among other things, this means promoting regional food economies both in America and around the world. And lastly, your policies need to reconceive agriculture as part of the solution to environmental problems like climate change. 
 These goals are admittedly ambitious, yet they will not be difficult to align or advance as long as we keep in mind this One Big Idea: most of the problems our food system faces today are because of its reliance on fossil fuels, and to the extent that our policies wring the oil out of the system and replace it with the energy of the sun, those policies will simultaneously improve the state of our health, our environment and our security. 
 I. Resolarizing the American Farm
 What happens in the field influences every other link of the food chain on up to our meals -- if we grow monocultures of corn and soy, we will find the products of processed corn and soy on our plates. Fortunately for your initiative, the federal government has enormous leverage in determining exactly what happens on the 830 million acres of American crop and pasture land. 
 Today most government farm and food programs are designed to prop up the old system of maximizing production from a handful of subsidized commodity crops grown in monocultures. Even food-assistance programs like WIC and school lunch focus on maximizing quantity rather than quality, typically specifying a minimum number of calories (rather than maximums) and seldom paying more than lip service to nutritional quality. This focus on quantity may have made sense in a time of food scarcity, but today it gives us a school-lunch program that feeds chicken nuggets and Tater Tots to overweight and diabetic children. 
 Your challenge is to take control of this vast federal machinery and use it to drive a transition to a new solar-food economy, starting on the farm. Right now, the government actively discourages the farmers it subsidizes from growing healthful, fresh food: farmers receiving crop subsidies are prohibited from growing ''specialty crops'' -- farm-bill speak for fruits and vegetables. (This rule was the price exacted by California and Florida produce growers in exchange for going along with subsidies for commodity crops.) Commodity farmers should instead be encouraged to grow as many different crops -- including animals -- as possible. Why? Because the greater the diversity of crops on a farm, the less the need for both fertilizers and pesticides. 
 The power of cleverly designed polycultures to produce large amounts of food from little more than soil, water and sunlight has been proved, not only by small-scale ''alternative'' farmers in the United States but also by large rice-and-fish farmers in China and giant-scale operations (up to 15,000 acres) in places like Argentina. There, in a geography roughly comparable to that of the American farm belt, farmers have traditionally employed an ingenious eight-year rotation of perennial pasture and annual crops: after five years grazing cattle on pasture (and producing the world's best beef), farmers can then grow three years of grain without applying any fossil-fuel fertilizer. Or, for that matter, many pesticides: the weeds that afflict pasture can't survive the years of tillage, and the weeds of row crops don't survive the years of grazing, making herbicides all but unnecessary. There is no reason -- save current policy and custom -- that American farmers couldn't grow both high-quality grain and grass-fed beef under such a regime through much of the Midwest. (It should be noted that today's sky-high grain prices are causing many Argentine farmers to abandon their rotation to grow grain and soybeans exclusively, an environmental disaster in the making.)
 Federal policies could do much to encourage this sort of diversified sun farming. Begin with the subsidies: payment levels should reflect the number of different crops farmers grow or the number of days of the year their fields are green -- that is, taking advantage of photosynthesis, whether to grow food, replenish the soil or control erosion. If Midwestern farmers simply planted a cover crop after the fall harvest, they would significantly reduce their need for fertilizer, while cutting down on soil erosion. Why don't farmers do this routinely? Because in recent years fossil-fuel-based fertility has been so much cheaper and easier to use than sun-based fertility. 
 In addition to rewarding farmers for planting cover crops, we should make it easier for them to apply compost to their fields -- a practice that improves not only the fertility of the soil but also its ability to hold water and therefore withstand drought. (There is mounting evidence that it also boosts the nutritional quality of the food grown in it.) The U.S.D.A. estimates that Americans throw out 14 percent of the food they buy; much more is wasted by retailers, wholesalers and institutions. A program to make municipal composting of food and yard waste mandatory and then distributing the compost free to area farmers would shrink America's garbage heap, cut the need for irrigation and fossil-fuel fertilizers in agriculture and improve the nutritional quality of the American diet.
 Right now, most of the conservation programs run by the U.S.D.A. are designed on the zero-sum principle: land is either locked up in ''conservation'' or it is farmed intensively. This either-or approach reflects an outdated belief that modern farming and ranching are inherently destructive, so that the best thing for the environment is to leave land untouched. But we now know how to grow crops and graze animals in systems that will support biodiversity, soil health, clean water and carbon sequestration. The Conservation Stewardship Program, championed by Senator Tom Harkin and included in the 2008 Farm Bill, takes an important step toward rewarding these kinds of practices, but we need to move this approach from the periphery of our farm policy to the very center. Longer term, the government should back ambitious research now under way (at the Land Institute in Kansas and a handful of other places) to ''perennialize'' commodity agriculture: to breed varieties of wheat, rice and other staple grains that can be grown like prairie grasses -- without having to till the soil every year. These perennial grains hold the promise of slashing the fossil fuel now needed to fertilize and till the soil, while protecting farmland from erosion and sequestering significant amounts of carbon.
 But that is probably a 50-year project. For today's agriculture to wean itself from fossil fuel and make optimal use of sunlight, crop plants and animals must once again be married on the farm -- as in Wendell Berry's elegant ''solution.'' Sunlight nourishes the grasses and grains, the plants nourish the animals, the animals then nourish the soil, which in turn nourishes the next season's grasses and grains. Animals on pasture can also harvest their own feed and dispose of their own waste -- all without our help or fossil fuel. 
 If this system is so sensible, you might ask, why did it succumb to Confined Animal Feeding Operations, or CAFOs? In fact there is nothing inherently efficient or economical about raising vast cities of animals in confinement. Three struts, each put into place by federal policy, support the modern CAFO, and the most important of these -- the ability to buy grain for less than it costs to grow it -- has just been kicked away. The second strut is F.D.A. approval for the routine use of antibiotics in feed, without which the animals in these places could not survive their crowded, filthy and miserable existence. And the third is that the government does not require CAFOs to treat their wastes as it would require human cities of comparable size to do. The F.D.A. should ban the routine use of antibiotics in livestock feed on public-health grounds, now that we have evidence that the practice is leading to the evolution of drug-resistant bacterial diseases and to outbreaks of E. coli and salmonella poisoning. CAFOs should also be regulated like the factories they are, required to clean up their waste like any other industry or municipality.
 It will be argued that moving animals off feedlots and back onto farms will raise the price of meat. It probably will -- as it should. You will need to make the case that paying the real cost of meat, and therefore eating less of it, is a good thing for our health, for the environment, for our dwindling reserves of fresh water and for the welfare of the animals. Meat and milk production represent the food industry's greatest burden on the environment; a recent U.N. study estimated that the world's livestock alone account for 18 percent of all greenhouse gases, more than all forms of transportation combined. (According to one study, a pound of feedlot beef also takes 5,000 gallons of water to produce.) And while animals living on farms will still emit their share of greenhouse gases, grazing them on grass and returning their waste to the soil will substantially offset their carbon hoof prints, as will getting ruminant animals off grain. A bushel of grain takes approximately a half gallon of oil to produce; grass can be grown with little more than sunshine.
 It will be argued that sun-food agriculture will generally yield less food than fossil-fuel agriculture. This is debatable. The key question you must be prepared to answer is simply this: Can the sort of sustainable agriculture you're proposing feed the world? 
 There are a couple of ways to answer this question. The simplest and most honest answer is that we don't know, because we haven't tried. But in the same way we now need to learn how to run an industrial economy without cheap fossil fuel, we have no choice but to find out whether sustainable agriculture can produce enough food. The fact is, during the past century, our agricultural research has been directed toward the goal of maximizing production with the help of fossil fuel. There is no reason to think that bringing the same sort of resources to the development of more complex, sun-based agricultural systems wouldn't produce comparable yields. Today's organic farmers, operating for the most part without benefit of public investment in research, routinely achieve 80 to 100 percent of conventional yields in grain and, in drought years, frequently exceed conventional yields. (This is because organic soils better retain moisture.) Assuming no further improvement, could the world -- with a population expected to peak at 10 billion -- survive on these yields? 
 First, bear in mind that the average yield of world agriculture today is substantially lower than that of modern sustainable farming. According to a recent University of Michigan study, merely bringing international yields up to today's organic levels could increase the world's food supply by 50 percent. 
 The second point to bear in mind is that yield isn't everything -- and growing high-yield commodities is not quite the same thing as growing food. Much of what we're growing today is not directly eaten as food but processed into low-quality calories of fat and sugar. As the world epidemic of diet-related chronic disease has demonstrated, the sheer quantity of calories that a food system produces improves health only up to a point, but after that, quality and diversity are probably more important. We can expect that a food system that produces somewhat less food but of a higher quality will produce healthier populations. 
 The final point to consider is that 40 percent of the world's grain output today is fed to animals; 11 percent of the world's corn and soybean crop is fed to cars and trucks, in the form of biofuels. Provided the developed world can cut its consumption of grain-based animal protein and ethanol, there should be plenty of food for everyone -- however we choose to grow it.
 In fact, well-designed polyculture systems, incorporating not just grains but vegetables and animals, can produce more food per acre than conventional monocultures, and food of a much higher nutritional value. But this kind of farming is complicated and needs many more hands on the land to make it work. Farming without fossil fuels -- performing complex rotations of plants and animals and managing pests without petrochemicals -- is labor intensive and takes more skill than merely ''driving and spraying,'' which is how corn-belt farmers describe what they do for a living.
 To grow sufficient amounts of food using sunlight will require more people growing food -- millions more. This suggests that sustainable agriculture will be easier to implement in the developing world, where large rural populations remain, than in the West, where they don't. But what about here in America, where we have only about two million farmers left to feed a population of 300 million? And where farmland is being lost to development at the rate of 2,880 acres a day? Post-oil agriculture will need a lot more people engaged in food production -- as farmers and probably also as gardeners. 
 The sun-food agenda must include programs to train a new generation of farmers and then help put them on the land. The average American farmer today is 55 years old; we shouldn't expect these farmers to embrace the sort of complex ecological approach to agriculture that is called for. Our focus should be on teaching ecological farming systems to students entering land-grant colleges today. For decades now, it has been federal policy to shrink the number of farmers in America by promoting capital-intensive monoculture and consolidation. As a society, we devalued farming as an occupation and encouraged the best students to leave the farm for ''better'' jobs in the city. We emptied America's rural counties in order to supply workers to urban factories. To put it bluntly, we now need to reverse course. We need more highly skilled small farmers in more places all across America -- not as a matter of nostalgia for the agrarian past but as a matter of national security. For nations that lose the ability to substantially feed themselves will find themselves as gravely compromised in their international dealings as nations that depend on foreign sources of oil presently do. But while there are alternatives to oil, there are no alternatives to food. 
 National security also argues for preserving every acre of farmland we can and then making it available to new farmers. We simply will not be able to depend on distant sources of food, and therefore need to preserve every acre of good farmland within a day's drive of our cities. In the same way that when we came to recognize the supreme ecological value of wetlands we erected high bars to their development, we need to recognize the value of farmland to our national security and require real-estate developers to do ''food-system impact statements'' before development begins. We should also create tax and zoning incentives for developers to incorporate farmland (as they now do ''open space'') in their subdivision plans; all those subdivisions now ringing golf courses could someday have diversified farms at their center. 
 The revival of farming in America, which of course draws on the abiding cultural power of our agrarian heritage, will pay many political and economic dividends. It will lead to robust economic renewal in the countryside. And it will generate tens of millions of new ''green jobs,'' which is precisely how we need to begin thinking of skilled solar farming: as a vital sector of the 21st-century post-fossil-fuel economy. 
 II. Reregionalizing the Food System
 For your sun-food agenda to succeed, it will have to do a lot more than alter what happens on the farm. The government could help seed a thousand new polyculture farmers in every county in Iowa, but they would promptly fail if the grain elevator remained the only buyer in town and corn and beans were the only crops it would take. Resolarizing the food system means building the infrastructure for a regional food economy -- one that can support diversified farming and, by shortening the food chain, reduce the amount of fossil fuel in the American diet. 
 A decentralized food system offers a great many other benefits as well. Food eaten closer to where it is grown will be fresher and require less processing, making it more nutritious. Whatever may be lost in efficiency by localizing food production is gained in resilience: regional food systems can better withstand all kinds of shocks. When a single factory is grinding 20 million hamburger patties in a week or washing 25 million servings of salad, a single terrorist armed with a canister of toxins can, at a stroke, poison millions. Such a system is equally susceptible to accidental contamination: the bigger and more global the trade in food, the more vulnerable the system is to catastrophe. The best way to protect our food system against such threats is obvious: decentralize it.
 Today in America there is soaring demand for local and regional food; farmers' markets, of which the U.S.D.A. estimates there are now 4,700, have become one of the fastest-growing segments of the food market. Community-supported agriculture is booming as well: there are now nearly 1,500 community-supported farms, to which consumers pay an annual fee in exchange for a weekly box of produce through the season. The local-food movement will continue to grow with no help from the government, especially as high fuel prices make distant and out-of-season food, as well as feedlot meat, more expensive. Yet there are several steps the government can take to nurture this market and make local foods more affordable. Here are a few:
 Four-Season Farmers' Markets. Provide grants to towns and cities to build year-round indoor farmers' markets, on the model of Pike Place in Seattle or the Reading Terminal Market in Philadelphia. To supply these markets, the U.S.D.A. should make grants to rebuild local distribution networks in order to minimize the amount of energy used to move produce within local food sheds. 
 Agricultural Enterprise Zones. Today the revival of local food economies is being hobbled by a tangle of regulations originally designed to check abuses by the very largest food producers. Farmers should be able to smoke a ham and sell it to their neighbors without making a huge investment in federally approved facilities. Food-safety regulations must be made sensitive to scale and marketplace, so that a small producer selling direct off the farm or at a farmers' market is not regulated as onerously as a multinational food manufacturer. This is not because local food won't ever have food-safety problems -- it will -- only that its problems will be less catastrophic and easier to manage because local food is inherently more traceable and accountable. 
 Local Meat-Inspection Corps. Perhaps the single greatest impediment to the return of livestock to the land and the revival of local, grass-based meat production is the disappearance of regional slaughter facilities. The big meat processors have been buying up local abattoirs only to close them down as they consolidate, and the U.S.D.A. does little to support the ones that remain. From the department's perspective, it is a better use of shrinking resources to dispatch its inspectors to a plant slaughtering 400 head an hour than to a regional abattoir slaughtering a dozen. The U.S.D.A. should establish a Local Meat-Inspectors Corps to serve these processors. Expanding on its successful pilot program on Lopez Island in Puget Sound, the U.S.D.A. should also introduce a fleet of mobile abattoirs that would go from farm to farm, processing animals humanely and inexpensively. Nothing would do more to make regional, grass-fed meat fully competitive in the market with feedlot meat.
 Establish a Strategic Grain Reserve. In the same way the shift to alternative energy depends on keeping oil prices relatively stable, the sun-food agenda -- as well as the food security of billions of people around the world -- will benefit from government action to prevent huge swings in commodity prices. A strategic grain reserve, modeled on the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, would help achieve this objective and at the same time provide some cushion for world food stocks, which today stand at perilously low levels. Governments should buy and store grain when it is cheap and sell when it is dear, thereby moderating price swings in both directions and discouraging speculation.
 Regionalize Federal Food Procurement. In the same way that federal procurement is often used to advance important social goals (like promoting minority-owned businesses), we should require that some minimum percentage of government food purchases -- whether for school-lunch programs, military bases or federal prisons -- go to producers located within 100 miles of institutions buying the food. We should create incentives for hospitals and universities receiving federal funds to buy fresh local produce. To channel even a small portion of institutional food purchasing to local food would vastly expand regional agriculture and improve the diet of the millions of people these institutions feed. 
 Create a Federal Definition of ''Food.'' It makes no sense for government food-assistance dollars, intended to improve the nutritional health of at-risk Americans, to support the consumption of products we know to be unhealthful. Yes, some people will object that for the government to specify what food stamps can and cannot buy smacks of paternalism. Yet we already prohibit the purchase of tobacco and alcohol with food stamps. So why not prohibit something like soda, which is arguably less nutritious than red wine? Because it is, nominally, a food, albeit a ''junk food.'' We need to stop flattering nutritionally worthless foodlike substances by calling them ''junk food'' -- and instead make clear that such products are not in fact food of any kind. Defining what constitutes real food worthy of federal support will no doubt be controversial (you'll recall President Reagan's ketchup imbroglio), but defining food upward may be more politically palatable than defining it down, as Reagan sought to do. One approach would be to rule that, in order to be regarded as a food by the government, an edible substance must contain a certain minimum ratio of micronutrients per calorie of energy. At a stroke, such a definition would improve the quality of school lunch and discourage sales of unhealthful products, since typically only ''food'' is exempt from local sales tax.
 A few other ideas: Food-stamp debit cards should double in value whenever swiped at a farmers' markets -- all of which, by the way, need to be equipped with the Electronic Benefit Transfer card readers that supermarkets already have. We should expand the WIC program that gives farmers'-market vouchers to low-income women with children; such programs help attract farmers' markets to urban neighborhoods where access to fresh produce is often nonexistent. (We should also offer tax incentives to grocery chains willing to build supermarkets in underserved neighborhoods.) Federal food assistance for the elderly should build on a successful program pioneered by the state of Maine that buys low-income seniors a membership in a community-supported farm. All these initiatives have the virtue of advancing two objectives at once: supporting the health of at-risk Americans and the revival of local food economies.
 III. Rebuilding America's Food Culture
 In the end, shifting the American diet from a foundation of imported fossil fuel to local sunshine will require changes in our daily lives, which by now are deeply implicated in the economy and culture of fast, cheap and easy food. Making available more healthful and more sustainable food does not guarantee it will be eaten, much less appreciated or enjoyed. We need to use all the tools at our disposal -- not just federal policy and public education but the president's bully pulpit and the example of the first family's own dinner table -- to promote a new culture of food that can undergird your sun-food agenda.
 Changing the food culture must begin with our children, and it must begin in the schools. Nearly a half-century ago, President Kennedy announced a national initiative to improve the physical fitness of American children. He did it by elevating the importance of physical education, pressing states to make it a requirement in public schools. We need to bring the same commitment to ''edible education'' -- in Alice Waters's phrase -- by making lunch, in all its dimensions, a mandatory part of the curriculum. On the premise that eating well is a critically important life skill, we need to teach all primary-school students the basics of growing and cooking food and then enjoying it at shared meals. 
 To change our children's food culture, we'll need to plant gardens in every primary school, build fully equipped kitchens, train a new generation of lunchroom ladies (and gentlemen) who can once again cook and teach cooking to children. We should introduce a School Lunch Corps program that forgives federal student loans to culinary-school graduates in exchange for two years of service in the public-school lunch program. And we should immediately increase school-lunch spending per pupil by $1 a day -- the minimum amount food-service experts believe it will take to underwrite a shift from fast food in the cafeteria to real food freshly prepared. 
 But it is not only our children who stand to benefit from public education about food. Today most federal messages about food, from nutrition labeling to the food pyramid, are negotiated with the food industry. The surgeon general should take over from the Department of Agriculture the job of communicating with Americans about their diet. That way we might begin to construct a less equivocal and more effective public-health message about nutrition. Indeed, there is no reason that public-health campaigns about the dangers of obesity and Type 2 diabetes shouldn't be as tough and as effective as public-health campaigns about the dangers of smoking. The Centers for Disease Control estimates that one in three American children born in 2000 will develop Type 2 diabetes. The public needs to know and see precisely what that sentence means: blindness; amputation; early death. All of which can be avoided by a change in diet and lifestyle. A public-health crisis of this magnitude calls for a blunt public-health message, even at the expense of offending the food industry. Judging by the success of recent antismoking campaigns, the savings to the health care system could be substantial.
 There are other kinds of information about food that the government can supply or demand. In general we should push for as much transparency in the food system as possible -- the other sense in which ''sunlight'' should be the watchword of our agenda. The F.D.A. should require that every packaged-food product include a second calorie count, indicating how many calories of fossil fuel went into its production. Oil is one of the most important ingredients in our food, and people ought to know just how much of it they're eating. The government should also throw its support behind putting a second bar code on all food products that, when scanned either in the store or at home (or with a cellphone), brings up on a screen the whole story and pictures of how that product was produced: in the case of crops, images of the farm and lists of agrochemicals used in its production; in the case of meat and dairy, descriptions of the animals' diet and drug regimen, as well as live video feeds of the CAFO where they live and, yes, the slaughterhouse where they die. The very length and complexity of the modern food chain breeds a culture of ignorance and indifference among eaters. Shortening the food chain is one way to create more conscious consumers, but deploying technology to pierce the veil is another. 
 Finally, there is the power of the example you set in the White House. If what's needed is a change of culture in America's thinking about food, then how America's first household organizes its eating will set the national tone, focusing the light of public attention on the issue and communicating a simple set of values that can guide Americans toward sun-based foods and away from eating oil. 
 The choice of White House chef is always closely watched, and you would be wise to appoint a figure who is identified with the food movement and committed to cooking simply from fresh local ingredients. Besides feeding you and your family exceptionally well, such a chef would demonstrate how it is possible even in Washington to eat locally for much of the year, and that good food needn't be fussy or complicated but does depend on good farming. You should make a point of the fact that every night you're in town, you join your family for dinner in the Executive Residence -- at a table. (Surely you remember the Reagans' TV trays.) And you should also let it be known that the White House observes one meatless day a week -- a step that, if all Americans followed suit, would be the equivalent, in carbon saved, of taking 20 million midsize sedans off the road for a year. Let the White House chef post daily menus on the Web, listing the farmers who supplied the food, as well as recipes. 
 Since enhancing the prestige of farming as an occupation is critical to developing the sun-based regional agriculture we need, the White House should appoint, in addition to a White House chef, a White House farmer. This new post would be charged with implementing what could turn out to be your most symbolically resonant step in building a new American food culture. And that is this: tear out five prime south-facing acres of the White House lawn and plant in their place an organic fruit and vegetable garden. 
 When Eleanor Roosevelt did something similar in 1943, she helped start a Victory Garden movement that ended up making a substantial contribution to feeding the nation in wartime. (Less well known is the fact that Roosevelt planted this garden over the objections of the U.S.D.A., which feared home gardening would hurt the American food industry.) By the end of the war, more than 20 million home gardens were supplying 40 percent of the produce consumed in America. The president should throw his support behind a new Victory Garden movement, this one seeking ''victory'' over three critical challenges we face today: high food prices, poor diets and a sedentary population. Eating from this, the shortest food chain of all, offers anyone with a patch of land a way to reduce their fossil-fuel consumption and help fight climate change. (We should offer grants to cities to build allotment gardens for people without access to land.) Just as important, Victory Gardens offer a way to enlist Americans, in body as well as mind, in the work of feeding themselves and changing the food system -- something more ennobling, surely, than merely asking them to shop a little differently. 
 I don't need to tell you that ripping out even a section of the White House lawn will be controversial: Americans love their lawns, and the South Lawn is one of the most beautiful in the country. But imagine all the energy, water and petrochemicals it takes to make it that way. (Even for the purposes of this memo, the White House would not disclose its lawn-care regimen.) Yet as deeply as Americans feel about their lawns, the agrarian ideal runs deeper still, and making this particular plot of American land productive, especially if the First Family gets out there and pulls weeds now and again, will provide an image even more stirring than that of a pretty lawn: the image of stewardship of the land, of self-reliance and of making the most of local sunlight to feed one's family and community. The fact that surplus produce from the South Lawn Victory Garden (and there will be literally tons of it) will be offered to regional food banks will make its own eloquent statement.
 You're probably thinking that growing and eating organic food in the White House carries a certain political risk. It is true you might want to plant iceberg lettuce rather than arugula, at least to start. (Or simply call arugula by its proper American name, as generations of Midwesterners have done: ''rocket.'') But it should not be difficult to deflect the charge of elitism sometimes leveled at the sustainable-food movement. Reforming the food system is not inherently a right-or-left issue: for every Whole Foods shopper with roots in the counterculture you can find a family of evangelicals intent on taking control of its family dinner and diet back from the fast-food industry -- the culinary equivalent of home schooling. You should support hunting as a particularly sustainable way to eat meat -- meat grown without any fossil fuels whatsoever. There is also a strong libertarian component to the sun-food agenda, which seeks to free small producers from the burden of government regulation in order to stoke rural innovation. And what is a higher ''family value,'' after all, than making time to sit down every night to a shared meal? 
 Our agenda puts the interests of America's farmers, families and communities ahead of the fast-food industry's. For that industry and its apologists to imply that it is somehow more ''populist'' or egalitarian to hand our food dollars to Burger King or General Mills than to support a struggling local farmer is absurd. Yes, sun food costs more, but the reasons why it does only undercut the charge of elitism: cheap food is only cheap because of government handouts and regulatory indulgence (both of which we will end), not to mention the exploitation of workers, animals and the environment on which its putative ''economies'' depend. Cheap food is food dishonestly priced -- it is in fact unconscionably expensive. 
 Your sun-food agenda promises to win support across the aisle. It builds on America's agrarian past, but turns it toward a more sustainable, sophisticated future. It honors the work of American farmers and enlists them in three of the 21st century's most urgent errands: to move into the post-oil era, to improve the health of the American people and to mitigate climate change. Indeed, it enlists all of us in this great cause by turning food consumers into part-time producers, reconnecting the American people with the American land and demonstrating that we need not choose between the welfare of our families and the health of the environment -- that eating less oil and more sunlight will redound to the benefit of both. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERWAN FROTIN) (pg.MM63, 67, 69, and 71) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (85%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



460 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: A Little Zen for Troubled Times

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BINDLEY

 BODY:
LAST year, the New York Botanical Garden had a hard time finding volunteers to help assemble its giant bamboo sculpture by the Japanese artist Tetsunori Kawana. This year, however, the project was cast as a soothing balm in light of the grim economic times. 
 ''Despite the gloomy headlines of the past week,'' garden officials wrote in an e-mail message to news organizations, ''some people are finding therapeutic remedy at the New York Botanical Garden.'' 
 Sawing pieces of madake bamboo might not seem the obvious way to find serenity amid financial turmoil. But the eight people in attendance on Tuesday at the garden, in the Bronx, did discover that tapping into their inner artist, not to mention their inner manual laborer, was a relaxing way to pass an afternoon. 
 ''We just had a lot more people who are willing to spend time consistently,'' said Karen Daubmann, the director of the exhibit. 
 Last year, only five volunteers showed up; this year, more than 30 were on hand for the 10-day task of assembling a new bamboo sculpture. The volunteers were helping to turn 350 pieces of bamboo from a farm in Georgia into something resembling a cloud forest. 
 ''In the jungle, there's a lot of trees that go up and the clouds hang pretty low, so you see the stems of the trees and you see a cloud cover,'' Ms. Daubmann explained. ''That's kind of like a tropical forest situation.'' 
 This year's crop of volunteers included Sophia Rasul, a 31-year-old graphic designer from Elmhurst, Queens, who was charged with the task of sawing bamboo stalks into pieces. 
 ''It's like volunteering to photocopy at work,'' said Ms. Rasul, who was accompanied by her recently retired father, Zubair. ''It's like brainless, and you just get into a rhythm and you daze.'' 
 Ms. Rasul cushioned her knees on a blue tarp as she methodically sawed pieces of bamboo. She stopped briefly to glance at the garden employees who were suspended in the bamboo clusters many feet above her, perched in strategically crisscrossed branches and taking their cues from the artist. ''They look like pandas,'' Ms. Rasul said with a giggle. 
 Volunteers also included Ariel Alvarez, who described himself as a nurse by profession but an artist by nature. Mr. Alvarez, who is 57 and was wearing a navy Mount Sinai T-shirt, had been spending most of his days off from the hospital volunteering at the sculpture. 
 ''The kind of work I do is high-stress,'' he said, ''so, definitely, just doing physical, manual stuff for me can ease a lot of that.'' 
 Back in the sawing area, as small piles of bamboo dust slowly collected, Mr. Rasul, who is 71, said he was enjoying the exercise and spending the day with his daughter. ''To be very honest,'' he admitted, ''I don't understand art.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''It's like brainless,'' said a volunteer on a bamboo sculpture project in the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (73%); RAIN FORESTS (66%); NURSES & NURSING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



461 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE FOOD ISSUE; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 3603 words

HEADLINE: A Catfish By Any Other Name

BYLINE: By PAUL GREENBERG. 
Paul Greenberg is a W. K. Kellogg Foundation food- and society policy fellow. His book on the future of fish will be published by Penguin Press.

 BODY:
RECENTLY I MET Roger Barlow, the president of the Catfish Institute in Jackson, Miss., for a catfish lunch. Plates of blackened catfish Caesar salad, catfish in a crawfish etouffee and Southern-fried catfish lay between us, as did a P.R. folder embossed with the phrase ''U.S. Farm-raised Catfish: Safety You Can Trust.'' As the North American catfish's principal advocate, Barlow wanted to focus on the positive. He described how U.S. catfish adhered to the world's toughest quality standards; how, in their farm-raised form, catfish weren't scavengers, as in nature, but rather sweet-tasting surface-feeders, raised in well water and fattened on corn and soy. But by and by our discussion reached a point at which Barlow revealed some impending changes. Very soon U.S. farm-raised catfish, some of it anyway, would not be called catfish.
 'The name we have chosen, and the name we have market-tested,'' he said, pausing slightly, ''is Delacata.'' Delacata, he explained, was going to be a specially filleted Grade-A piece of the best of the farmed North American channel catfish. It was being tested at high-end bistros in California, and the ''Iron Chef America'' judge Cat Cora had signed on to endorse it. 
 The rollout of Delacata should have been the 40-year-old catfish industry's transcendental moment, marking catfish's transformation from a poor subsistence food to America's most commercially successful farmed fish. But on this blistering summer afternoon it seemed more like the North American catfish's last stand. About a third of the region's growers have quit, and those remaining increasingly see their ponds as liabilities. If attrition continues apace, very little catfish will be farmed in the United States before long. 
 The ostensible reason for the industry's collapse is last year's doubling of feed and fuel prices. But as one farmer put it, the cost increases are just the ''knockout punch.'' Why North American catfish hit the ropes in the first place and why some catfish might not be called catfish anymore cut to the heart of the American food system's viability. For Delacata is not just about getting a higher price to compensate for higher costs; it is about America's ability to protect its food production and regulation from an emergent Asia.
 ''In the struggle for survival,'' Charles Darwin famously wrote, ''the fittest win out at the expense of their rivals because they succeed in adapting themselves best to their environment.'' The channel catfish has unquestionably adapted well to the environment farmers provided for it. Fast-growing and hardy, it eats everything and comes to market with little fuss. But not long ago, another fish arrived, threatening the once-profitable symbiosis of North American farmer and North American catfish. You have probably eaten this fish, but you don't know its name. It was once called ''catfish'' (and many other names -- some of them unprintable). Nowadays, when it is sold in America, it is often simply called ''fish.'' Let me introduce you. It makes its home in the waters of Southeast Asia. You can call it Pangasius.
 VO THANH KHON leads me through a sparkling industrial park in Can Tho City, Vietnam. Palm trees and tropical shrubbery rise gracefully along the path with magenta 9-o'clock flowers blooming throughout. Khon, a pleasant man in a pressed white shirt, stretches out his hand. 
 ''You are looking at our virtue,'' he says. 
 After a quick speedboat ride across the Mekong River, Khon directs me to a square pond. On Khon's signal, a boatman shovels dime-size pellets into the water. A few dimples dot the surface. A splash here and there. Then, as if the entire pond is moving to engulf the skiff, the water erupts into a froth, drenching the boatman and showering those of us on shore. The pond is almost more fish than water. Two-foot-long creatures, gray on top, white on bottom, with faces resembling a slightly dimwitted ''Star Wars'' character, interlock and wriggle. Appraising the fish, you might feel that the motto for Bianfishco, the company for which Khon works -- ''Pangasius is our nature''-- is slightly creepy. Khon smiles broadly, though, for the roaring of the feeding frenzy is literally the sound of money earning interest.
 The fish in Khon's pond are known internationally by their genus, Pangasius, and locally as tra. Near the top of the taxonomic chart, they share an order with North American channel catfish, Siluriformes, and Vietnamese exporters once sold tra in American stores under that reassuringly familiar appellation. But while both fish have whiskers and white flesh, many epochs separate their evolutionary divergence. In land-animal terms, calling tra and their American cousins both ''catfish'' would be similar to affixing the label ''hoofed mammal'' to all the different red meat we eat. True, American consumers probably don't care all that much about taxonomy. They do, however, care about brands. And since with fish the species name is the brand, fortunes are at risk when names go astray.
 If Vietnamese growers can be believed, tra may be the most efficient way on earth to make animal protein. It takes three acres of grazing land to grow a single 700-pound cow. That same land, flooded and turned over to channel catfish ponds will generate 25,000 pounds of catfish. But in Vietnam, those three acres will bring in up to 1 million pounds of tra. The question that fish farmers outside of Southeast Asia ask is whether the Vietnamese are competing on a level playing field. And if not, they wonder, are the Vietnamese grabbing up huge swaths of the global white-fish market at the expense of environmental and consumer safety?
 These suspicions begin with the very beginning of the man-Pangasius relationship. To illustrate, it's worth repeating a joke my translator told me:
 Question: ''How do you tell farmed and wild fish apart?''
 Answer: ''The farmed fish is cross-eyed from staring up at the outhouse.''
 Though they are today raised like most farmed fish, Pangasius's domestication did start under the privy. After they were introduced by peasants into their ''latrine ponds,'' Pangasius rooted around in, well, let's call it ''decaying organic matter,'' to obtain their fodder. When large enough, the fish were sold domestically on the Mekong's floating markets. 
 This was the state of things in Vietnam. But ethnic Vietnamese living in exile in central Cambodia took a different approach. Using cages suspended below floating houseboats on Cambodia's Great Lake, or Tonle Sap, they fed their fish a cleaner diet of rice bran and fish meal. Initially, a relative of tra called basa looked like the ''it'' fish. It had low oxygen demands. And farmers found that when they were fed a proper diet, they grew quickly and had white flesh instead of the yellow-green color they had in the latrine-pond environment. 
 But basa's pre-eminence was short-lived. When wars in Cambodia forced ethnic Vietnamese to return to Vietnam, they found they needed to modify their techniques. While basa can tolerate low oxygen levels, they would suffer at the intense stocking densities Vietnamese farmers demanded. Tra, meanwhile, didn't mind the close quarters. The only thing they would do differently when high densities reduced oxygen too far was to occasionally rise to the surface and stick their alien-looking mouths above the surface.
 Tra, it turned out, can breathe air.
 CATFISH ISN'T THE first product from Asia to spark emotional trade disputes. But unlike the public hood-bashing that autoworkers dealt an unwitting Japanese car in 1992, what came to be known in the American South as ''the catfish wars'' simmered out of sight, a resentment that finally boiled up out of the very bottom of America's economy.
 Greensboro, Ala., is in the heart of the Black Belt, a region of dark soil and extreme poverty that overlaps with catfish country from the Carolinas into East Texas. Approaching Greensboro from the south, the signs of deprivation are apparent. A collapsed building spilling out its contents onto the intersection of Route 61 and U.S. Highway 80 shows no signs of impending repair, and a ministry's roadside sign nearby advises, ''Wife Abuse Is Not a Way of Conveying Love.''
 The land, too, is troubled. Fields of soy and corn strobe by as does light, fertile soil and the dark, rich-looking ''gumbo'' that was often sold to unsuspecting carpetbaggers. It is gumbo land that set the conditions for catfish farming, for unlike the productive Midwestern loam it resembles, gumbo is mostly clay. It is practically watertight, though -- excellent for a catfish pond. And local farmers benefited handsomely as a result. After prices for corn and soy plunged during the anti-Soviet grain embargo of the late 1970s, catfish ponds became a financial salvation -- a third leg to stand on after soy and corn were kicked away. 
 But when Pangasius arrived in America at the end of the century, that leg proved wobbly. Both channel catfish and Pangasius are cheap fish. Before they shared a supermarket aisle, channel catfish were mostly eaten by low-income families in the American South, while Pangasius fed socialist workers in floundering late-Communist economies. By the time these two cheap fish met in the United States, the contender from Southeast Asia had developed an ability to duck under even rock-bottom prices. Pangasius can be raised in much higher densities than North American channel catfish, and they grow faster in Vietnam's winterless, tropical climate. Coupled with cheap Vietnamese labor -- a fraction of the already low costs of the American South -- Pangasius sold for a dollar a pound less than channel catfish. There was also at the time of Pangasius's arrival no country-of-origin requirements in food labeling. Consumers couldn't tell a Pangasius from a channel catfish even if they wanted to. 
 Pangasius also benefited from American catfish's vulnerability to something called ''off-flavor.'' Off-flavor happens when blue-green algae predominate in stagnant freshwater and emit geosim -- a harmless, muddy-tasting compound that passes easily into fish flesh. Since U.S. environmental regulations limit the amount of water that can be discharged, algal blooms are common, and catfish occasionally get that geosim taste. 
 Vietnamese farmers on the Mekong avoid the problem of off-flavor altogether. Lax laws allow them to refresh ponds and discharge wastewater directly into the Mekong River, and a result is fewer problems with off-flavor. And while this might translate into worse environmental conditions for the Mekong, it can mean a more consistent product that large retailers appreciate. 
 Exposing this inequity was just one of several fronts American catfish farmers opened up against the Vietnamese in the trade war to follow. They accused (justifiably, it turned out) Vietnamese growers of using carcinogenic fungicides and antibiotics banned in the United States to get higher yields from their ponds. They claimed that the Vietnamese were ''dumping'' catfish on the American market, that is, selling them below fair market value, something the Vietnamese vehemently deny. It was the dumping issue that had the most traction when the battle went to the U.S. Department of Commerce in 2002. American catfish farmers filed an ''antidumping'' petition against Pangasius producers, demanding tariffs of up to 60 percent to balance out the ''dumping margin'' -- the difference between the price of the fish in the Vietnamese market and the price in the U.S. market. They also had opened up a legislative debate at the highest level. Earlier, in 2001, they persuaded a group of Southern senators to introduce amendments to the agriculture appropriations bill that would prohibit Vietnamese catfish from being called catfish.
 Despite the concerns about the safety of Pangasius, free traders took that fish's side, none more stridently than John McCain, who claimed that ''Americans like to eat them.'' A champion of normalizing relations with Vietnam, McCain attacked the taxonomic revisionism with vigor. ''With a clever trick of Latin phraseology,'' McCain railed, ''these Southern Senators single-handedly undercut American trade policy in a troubling example of the very parochialism we have urged the Vietnamese government to abandon. . . . Vietnamese catfish are no different than American catfish by nutritional and safety standards, but they are different in the eyes of the large, wealthy agribusinesses on whose behalf this provision was slipped into the agriculture appropriations bill.''
 Against McCain's wishes, the Southern senators won out, and later U.S. farmers won their antidumping petition. Pangasius were thence forward to be called basa or tra with tariffs added to their price. The Vietnamese invasion was stopped cold, and the North American catfish was saved. For the moment. 
 IN CHAU DOC, a statue of two intertwined Pangasius greets the traveler heading toward Cambodia into the heart of fish-farming country. For those who have traveled the Communist world, the statue is oddly familiar. With its kitschy silver glitter and bold futurist outline, it recalls the gigantic monuments to the Soviet space program. 
 Such is the importance of Pangasius in Vietnam. When the United States implemented its catfish rulings, it was as if Apollo had shut the hatch on Soyuz. A farmer shoveling feed pellets into the hole in her houseboat floor was still distraught when I raised the issue this summer. ''The American people are O.K.,'' she said, ''but the American government. . . .'' She broke off with a shake of her head. 
 But some here see the catfish wars as a boon. Flavio Corsin is one such individual. A tall, loping Italian hailing from the trout-growing region near Venice, Corsin is working with the World Wildlife Fund to establish international quality standards for Pangasius through an initiative called the Aquaculture Dialogues. 
 As someone with an intimate feel for Vietnamese culture (he did his dissertation in a Vietnamese village and learned the language by ear), Corsin says he thinks the trade war changed things. ''In Vietnam, there is a lot of public soul-searching when something goes wrong,'' he told me. ''They always say: 'Come here whenever you want. Tell us how we can improve.' '' 
 Following the collapse of the American market, Vietnam scrambled for an alternative. Europe was the perfect fit. Europeans had already invested heavily in Vietnam's economic redevelopment, some of it in aquaculture (the scientist who unlocked the hormonal secrets of breeding Pangasius in captivity is a Frenchman). News of overfishing had also made Europeans wary of wild-caught white fish like cod and sole. 
 The Vietnamese had also learned a lesson about product misrepresentation. Pangasius quickly undercut European trout and sea-bass farmers just as it did U.S. catfish growers, but it did so under its own name. Le Panga has been a market phenomenon in France; in other E.U. nations, it is sold under similar derivatives of its Latin name. The lack of negative association, the neutral taste and above all the extremely low price has made it a Continental staple. A recent Michael Moore-ish documentary, ''Qu'est-ce que c'est qu'un Panga?'' (''What is a Panga?''), has had no effect. In the last few years, European demand has helped raise Pangasius production to more than two billion pounds a year -- a nearly tenfold increase in the last decade. Even as Vietnamese have found themselves largely shut out of the American market, they have prospered elsewhere. 
 Vietnamese regulators also came to understand that conforming to Western food-safety standards (or at least appearing to conform) was vital. There is no international standard for farmed fish. In Vietnam alone, several international organizations are trying to develop guidelines. But the sheer number of small producers spread out along the Mekong presents particular challenges. 
 ''When I go to Europe, I try to explain that you cannot manage food safety in developing countries the way you manage it in Europe,'' Flavio Corsin told me. ''Italy, for example, is based on individual farm inspection. Here, with so many producers, you would need an army of inspectors to do the same job.'' The food-safety option Corsin advocates is something called ''Internal Control Systems,'' or I.C.S., in which international organizations train local farming cooperatives to inspect themselves. And while the I.C.S. method recalls the Roman poet Juvenal's warning -- ''Who watches the watchers?'' -- Corsin says he feels that the Vietnamese are mature enough now to watch themselves because the industry is participating in the development of the standards. ''You have to identify the 20 percent of producers that are doing the best and make them make the standards,'' he said. ''That way you can create the means to getting these practices adopted industrywide.'' American catfish farmers were approached by the World Wildlife Foundation to participate in setting standards, but they have generally refused. ''We have adhered to the highest standards for years,'' the Catfish Institute's Roger Barlow told me, ''and we don't want to be lumped together with an inferior product.''
 It appears that the Vietnamese standards practices are having an effect. Since I.C.S. procedures were implemented in Vietnam, the Food and Drug Administration has found no violations in Vietnamese Pangasius. Individual Vietnamese farmers are now lobbying to repeal the punitive U.S. tariffs, some of them successfully. Nowadays when Pangasius does make it to American consumers, it is often presented as just ''fish'' at hospitals and other large institutions or, sometimes, under the names of more expensive fish, like grouper. 
 IF THERE IS one point of common ground for Vietnamese and American fish farmers, it is a dread of the world's largest aquaculturist: China. Chinese researchers now travel the world in search of species that will thrive on their own farms and have developed aquaculture programs for both North American channel catfish and Vietnamese Pangasius. Here, all questions of names and standards crumble under China's drive to sell at the cheapest price. Farmers of Thai shrimp, South American tilapia and even Louisiana crawfish have all watched their markets evaporate when Beijing alights. As Barlow puts it, ''China's is an economic model of creative destruction.''
 China's presence lobs a new grenade into the catfish name war. Today, only channel catfish and other members of the North American fish family Ictaluridae can be called ''catfish'' in the United States. But no law says those Ictaluridae have to live in America. China can therefore keep North American channel catfish in Chinese ponds and sell them to America as catfish for less than what it costs Americans to grow them. And while American law requires a package of Chinese catfish to say ''product of China,'' it will often be described on the same package as ''Cajun'' in much larger type. 
 There is an added problem with Chinese-American catfish. Last year, after detecting malachite green and crystal violet, both carcinogens, as well as an anthrax-fighting antibiotic, the F.D.A. put an import alert on all Chinese catfish. The F.D.A. however, is considering lifting the import once a third-party Chinese certifier is approved. Curiously, the third-party under consideration is an agency of the government of China.+
 Infuriated American catfish growers have asked for more government intervention. In the farm bill passed this year, catfish were put under the Food Safety and Inspection Service, a subdivision of the Agriculture Department that is separate from the F.D.A. and provides an extra layer of regulation. The reason? Foreign exporters making products that fall within the inspection-service dossier must meet similar standards as United States producers. The Chinese and other producers will have to come into compliance by December 2009.
 Vietnam, meanwhile, a victor in real wars against both America and China, is unflinching. ''China is starting to farm tra,'' Nguyen Van Hao, a founder of the Vietnamese Pangasius program, told me just before I left Ho Chi Minh City. ''We cannot say no. But we have great production here, and with better technology, maybe our yields will be even higher.'' Not only are Vietnamese now selectively breeding tra; they have even begun a hybridization program to cross tra with the endangered giant Mekong catfish -- an animal that grows more than 10 feet long and can weigh half a ton.
 American farmers, too, are trying out new crosses. A channel and blue catfish cross is particularly promising. But it is the new name Delacata that many hope will end the time of catfish troubles. Delacata is, like Pangasius, a name with no pejorative associations. And now, after eight years of catfish wars, disassociation is obligatory. As Jon Stamell, a marketing consultant who was contracted briefly by the Vietnamese government to rebrand Pangasius, said, ''All of this fighting and disagreeing over a product puts out a negative message to the consumer, and this has a way of doubling back on you.'' When I asked Stamell what he thought of the name Delacata, he paused. ''Hmm,'' he said, ''sounds like a car.'' 
 American catfish advocates, meanwhile, are driving forward. ''I hear Delacata's really taking off,'' the celebrity chef Cat Cora told me recently, not long after renewing her endorsement contract with the Catfish Institute. ''I'd like to see it as a secret ingredient on 'Iron Chef.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JUMPIN': Tra, distant relatives of the American catfish, at the Bianfishco fish farm in Can Tho, Vietnam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUIDO MOCAFICO)(MM72 and MM73)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUIDO MOCAFICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, BASED ON ROBERT MAPPLETHORPE'S ' 'FISH' ' ( 1985))(MM76 andMM77) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY HAPPYPETS)(MM74, MM75, and MM77) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUACULTURE (90%); FISHES (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); AGRICULTURE (74%); TEST MARKETING (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); ASIA (77%); VIET NAM (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



462 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Fear and Loathing In La Jolla

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I lived with them on Montague Street
 In a basement down the stairs.
 There was music in the cafes at night, 
 And revolution in the air.
 -- Bob Dylan,
 ''Tangled Up in Blue''
 A FEW days ago, I spoke to a large gathering of investors in the San Diego suburb of La Jolla, and was startled by the audience's furious anger at the powers that be. The Wall Street-Treasury-Federal Reserve axis is hated, loathed and feared by these people, who were, as far as I could tell, largely Republicans, almost all well to do -- or formerly well to do. They are in a state of extreme agitation about how the current mismanagement of our financial system has played havoc with their own personal financial situation.
 In fact, they are among the angriest upper- and middle-class people I have ever seen. And the most frightened and worried. (In a way, they are now feeling the way ordinary workers have been feeling for years.) 
 And why not? With the experiment of allowing a major investment bank, Lehman Brothers, to simply vanish, leaving huge holes in the portfolios of many other financial entities, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, threw the financial system into chaos. 
 Yes, some people at Lehman undoubtedly did some bad things, but those kinds of people are found everywhere. Letting Lehman fail was almost incomprehensible. It took the federal government many decades, after the banking collapse leading to the Great Depression, to restore confidence in the financial system. Then, in one horribly misguided moment, Mr. Paulson, with the apparent agreement of Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Fed, demolished that confidence.
 Now, we have to spend $700 billion to try to get it back, and it's by no means certain that even this enormous bailout plan will work. Confidence is incredibly important. In a way, it's the only factor that counts in finance. Do markets and lenders have confidence in this plan? Do they have confidence that it will work successfully for the whole country and not just for the Wall Street buddy system? The results in the markets, post-bailout, are dismal.
 When confidence is gone, it's really gone. We see the results all around us, in what seems to be a gathering slowdown. For those of us surveying the financial statements we can get online at any moment to destroy our sleep, the recession is already here and it looks a lot like a depression if we add in the losses on our real estate. 
 So, as I drove home from La Jolla to the comfort of my dogs in Los Angeles, I thought, ''Well, what now? Now that we are facing a situation of complete unpredictability with a financial system fluctuating between state socialism and chaos, what do I do?'' 
 I thought I should try to maintain my health so I could keep working and speaking longer and keep supporting my family longer, not to mention the many other people and lenders I help support. I also thought that I would like to keep as liquid as I prudently can, even if it often means selling stock at a loss. Cash is balm in this situation: it lets you sleep. I also thought that I wouldn't be buying a ranch in Idaho, as my wife has wanted me to do -- not for some time, if ever.
 But in my way, like my father before me, I'm a working man. My work, speaking and writing, is my pleasure. I plan to do it as long as I draw breath. My beloved father, a distinguished economist and writer, was working on differing expectations for inflation as they bear on the price of long-term bonds, with tubes in him in the I.C.U. I still have the blood-spattered pages of his written thoughts. He didn't need the money. It was his passion. My ideal last day would be speaking and then drifting off to eternity with my economic statistics bulletin and my dogs by my side.
 Not everyone feels that way, however. Many people long for retirement. But clearly, many of them are in deep, deep trouble. Even before the recent crisis, the financial situation of large numbers of retirees was desperate. The data for boomers is grim, with only small percentages really able to retire in comfort.
 NOW, the case is far worse. People planning for retirement were told they could expect that their savings in broad indexes of common stocks would double roughly every 10 years. But we are now below where we were in 1998. If pre-retirees needed that doubling to get to their savings goals, they are now cut off at the knees. Unless the stock market stages a miraculous recovery, and I pray it does, a whole generation of boomers will be hopelessly far from its needs for savings.
 I wonder if Mr. Paulson with his hundreds of millions in the bank really understands the terror of those people in the room in La Jolla and the tens of millions like them. I wonder if Mr. Bernanke does. I wonder if, as they rolled the dice on Lehman and came up snake eyes, they thought of the fear that would spread throughout the land. What do people -- decent, hard-working people -- do now? The standard advice would be to buy when the market is down, and it's probably good advice. But only ''probably'' because we have no idea how far down we'll go or how long it will take to recover. Maybe it is better to be liquid now. But then again, maybe not. Uncertainty and fear rule.
 Frankly, I don't know the answer. I just know that for a long time, we have paid Wall Street ''experts'' unimaginable sums for preparing for our retirement. They still have our money, and we have ashes. And I wonder whose side government is on, which is a bad thought to have, and I wish I didn't have it. As the song goes, there is revolution in the air. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BAILOUTS (74%); BANK FAILURES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (55%); BEN BERNANKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



463 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-EXTRA: SELECTIONS FROM OPINION ONLINE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 701 words

 BODY:
CAMPAIGN STOPS There's a fever on the land, and it both excites and upsets me. Some friends speak to me of the coming apocalypse -- financial collapse, dogs howling at the moon, the scorched earth of Mad Max and Cormac McCarthy. Others are sanguine, still play golf on the weekend and remain on cordial terms with their brokers. I don't know what the line is in Vegas. I'm here to learn.
 I had a plan, of course. I couldn't follow John Steinbeck's exact route, not with the price of gas and a miserly budget, but I could pinch out six weeks of travel and make it to San Francisco before the election. That meant shower knobs that break off in your hand and even the tyranny of franchise food, but I felt game for it. If the apocalypse is looming, it might be useful to adapt to Arby's and Nathan's Finest. 
 Dover, Del., was my first stop, a three-hour-plus shot including a stretch on the New Jersey Turnpike. Boredom is brother to the highway, and the Pike is hardly a scenic route. I got a bit of relief, at least in a psychological sense, when I passed the biggest, weirdest, most cluttered flea market I've ever seen. One person's junk is another person's treasure, and if you're looking for a refrigerator coil for your 1948 Kelvinator, this might be the spot for you. What impressed and reassured me, though, was the woman in charge. She sat in a lawn chair seven feet from the road with two ham sandwiches balanced on her lap. If the Dow went down the tubes tomorrow, I doubt she'd notice. She had the inner calm of the Buddha. In times of trouble, living in the moment might be worth its weight in gold.
 -- Bill Barich, 
 ''Metal Detectors and Crabtoberfest''
 Reader Comments:
 You may be missing something about those little Eastern Shore towns that you just can't see through urban eyes. Where you see sadness and wide places in the road on the way to the resorts, many of us who live in other rural places see real life. Those little towns are teeming with reality. The falling-down barns and paint peeling from the local stores tell a story that you can't read.
 -- Posted by Gerald R. Slaney
 The fall here in the northern tier of Pennsylvania is full on, bone-cold mornings with hard frost on the long grasses and slush in the chicken's water bowl. The road beckons here, but does not tempt in the dwindling summer of life. Children, career and foremost love of my life keep me anchored in the hills of my youth, content and happy despite the turmoil and uncertainty of the world at large. That keening from the unknown road is answered by others' adventures and travels. Thank you, Bill Barich, for allowing me to travel with you. 
 -- Posted by Jim Russell
 LESSON PLANS As this year's freshmen begin their growth, I see that their trials with technology reflect the school's own developing ideas on the subject.
 They struggle against the frequent distractions popping into their view. Not long ago, students would ball up scraps of notebook paper and pass them around the room. They now instant message three friends at once. Boys used to tuck copies of Sports Illustrated under their textbooks -- now they open another tab at SI.com. They no longer fold elaborate fortune-tellers out of loose-leaf; instead they go online to read horoscopes or play games.
 When I spoke at a conference last year on being a young teacher in a progressive technology school, the most important understanding shared was that I was not as interesting as what they could pull up on their screens.
 The sternest words in my arsenal are ''Screens down.'' Yet, I am a forgiving disciplinarian, because I too fight distractions. 
 New technology provides sexy alternatives to older methods of instruction and assessment. In the same conference, I spoke about my ''podcast year'' -- when, as a first-year teacher, I discovered the joy of digital microphones. Every piece of creative writing was recorded, an activity that ate up entire class periods. By the time I reached a unit where it actually made sense to capture student voice (speeches), the kids were ready to fight me. I, too, had allowed myself to be distracted.
 -- Matthew Kay, 
 ''Putting Technology in Its Place''
 For more, nytimes.com/opinion

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (77%); FAST FOOD (73%); GOLF (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (70%); METAL DETECTORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DOVER, DE, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



464 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: The Harder They Fall, the More I Smile

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
THINGS are bad. Very, very bad. The markets are still seesawing crazily, and financial institutions are folding and being taken over so quickly they'll have to replace their signs with Jumbotrons to keep up with the name changes. Our own president noted last month that ''If money isn't loosened up, this sucker could go down,'' meaning -- I think -- the economy. But nobody seems to know if the huge bailout plan will work.
 How does all of this compounded badness make me feel? 
 Not so bad, surprisingly. 
 You see, I was never able to make much money in the markets. I agree with Daniel Waterhouse, a character from the 17th century in ''Quicksilver,'' Neal Stephenson's brilliant novel, who says that even though he is a knowledgeable ''natural philosopher,'' or scientist, he has given up on understanding money. ''If money is a science,'' he states, ''then it is a dark science, darker than Alchemy.''
 I couldn't agree more. My own 401(k) plan has already slipped so far that I might have invested more productively over the last few years by burning the cash for heat. Meanwhile, to hear the financial press and the cable channels describe it, everybody but me -- especially in the financial industry -- was getting rich. 
 Now we're even. 
 There is, of course, an element of schadenfreude at play, but it's not simply that I'm happy because others are sad. That's sick; I would never rejoice at the suffering of my poor and middle-class countrymen who have fallen on hard times, or of the retirees looking at dwindling investments at the moment they need them most. True joy, my friends, is the feeling that comes from knowing that the right people are sad. 
 If you became obscenely rich riding this bubble, I'm taking pleasure in your fall. Of course, you are still undoubtedly richer than I will ever be. But it's also clear that being rich means much more to you than it has ever meant to me, so I know you're in pain. Which is good.
 I'm not the only one who feels this way. I recently received a note from Dr. Michael Stone, a psychiatrist in Manhattan who is a professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia University. ''In America it's every boy's dream to one day become a millionaire,'' he wrote, adding that the subprime mortgage craze and debacle have ''made that dream come true for more people than we could ever have imagined before.'' He continued: ''Only yesterday, it seems, Maurice R. Greenberg, ex-C.E.O. of A.I.G., saw the value of his holdings in his former company change -- in one day -- from $15.8 billion to $911 million. Where else but in America can even a billionaire become a millionaire?''
 The upside of this financial crisis, then, is that everybody and his uncle are beginning to investigate what went wrong. Some of them even have subpoena power. Delicious.
 ANOTHER group that I don't mind seeing break out in a sweat are the stock market analysts who claim that the news industry is dying because the corporate leaders were too stupid to meet the challenge of the Internet. Admittedly, I have a personal bias here. But guess what, guys? Change comes to every industry; it's how you react over time that makes the difference. 
 The story of newspapers is undoubtedly grim. Now that many of the analysts' own shops are being put in a blender, though, would it be unkind to point out that those at the helm of the newspapers didn't play in the subprime securities market and thus drive their companies off a cliff? Hope you like dealing with change, baby!
 Then there are the people whose judgment is so horrifyingly bad that those of us who have honed our sense of schadenfreude must stand back in awe, as if we have been presented with a kind of once-in-a-lifetime performance art. That artist, that visionary, is Gabriel Nathan Schwartz, a lawyer from Denver who had a bit of trouble in August at the Republican National Convention. Mr. Schwartz -- no relation -- seems to have met a nice lady at a bar during the convention and taken her back to his hotel room. 
 Here's what happened next, according to The St. Paul Pioneer Press, in a report that reads like blank verse: 
 ''Once there, the woman fixed the drinks and told him to get undressed.
 ''And that, the delegate to the Republican National Convention told police, was the last thing he remembered.''
 According to the initial police report, when Mr. Schwartz, who is 29, woke up, he was $120,000 poorer. He had been relieved of a great deal of cash plus a $30,000 watch, a $20,000 ring, a $5,000 necklace and a belt worth $1,000. Prada. 
 In a statement he released once the story of his misadventure started making the rounds of the Internet, Mr. Schwartz said, ''I used poor judgment.'' A spokeswoman for Mr. Schwartz said that his losses actually amounted to $63,050, and that he has worked with the police to correct the misunderstanding. 
 In his statement, he said he was ''joking around'' when he proclaimed during an interview earlier in the convention that he wanted ''less taxes and more war,'' and that the United States should ''bomb the hell'' out of Iran.
 I might not have the kind of money that gives me expertise in this area, and I don't own any Prada. But I feel I know a thing or two about wealth. And let me tell you that anybody who wears a $30,000 watch can afford to lose $30,000. Prada goeth before a fall.
 Still, let's not be small about this. It's easy to joke about a guy who gets himself into a mess, but Mr. Schwartz has ascended to the level of a metaphor. Look at it this way: perhaps he was actually visited by Fortuna, the goddess whose bailiwick includes the realm of investing.
 The Romans saw Fortuna as the goddess of luck, but she was also the goddess of fate. Maybe she was giving Mr. Schwartz a preview of the economy to come. Maybe what she put in his drink was a little dose of irrational exuberance -- the thought that meeting a woman in a bar and taking her back to a hotel room is a perfectly reasonable thing to do. What could possibly go wrong?
 AS a nation, haven't we been on a somewhat similar misadventure? The nation's financial institutions smiled at the nice lady in the bar and invited her up to their collective hotel room, hoping for the best. And they got rolled. And, by extension, so did we. 
 The difference between Mr. Schwartz and the financial institutions is that he didn't expect the government to bail him out. 
 The rest of us, clearly, just need to get too big to fail. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL VASCONCELLOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); US 401K PLANS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); PSYCHIATRY (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



465 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; WORD FOR WORD I'M HAVING A FLASHBACK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: A Storm Unforeseen, Always About to Pass

 BODY:
IRRATIONAL exuberance? As the nation entered recession in the summer of 1929, there were still plenty of economists, business leaders and politicians who looked to the future with optimism. And why not? The Dow Jones industrial average was soaring. Then the stock market bubble burst on Oct. 24, which led to several days of panicked selling -- an opening bell for the worldwide economic collapse that soon followed. Here's what some leading politicians, economists and business leaders had to say in the months before and after the crash. Sound familiar?
 From a ''Wall Street Analysis'' by Thomas C. Shotwell in ''The World Almanac for 1929'': 
 ''The market is following natural laws of economics and there is no reason why both prosperity and the market should not continue for years at this high level or even higher.'' 
 Bernard Baruch, financier and presidential adviser, in The American Magazine, June 1929:
 ''The economic condition of the world seems on the verge of a great forward movement.'' 
 The Wall Street Journal, Aug. 23, 1929:
 ''The outlook for the fall months seems brighter than at any time.'' 
 Irving Fisher, professor of economics at Yale University, in The New York Times, Sept. 6, 1929. He ended up losing much of his wealth in the crash:
 ''There may be a recession in stock prices, but not anything in the nature of a crash.'' 
 The Wall Street Journal, Sept. 11, 1929, quoting Mark Twain in its thought for the day:
 ''Don't part with your illusions; when they are gone, you may still exist, but you have ceased to live.'' 
 Arthur Reynolds, chairman of Continental Illinois Bank of Chicago, Oct. 24, 1929:
 ''This crash is not going to have much effect on business.'' 
 The New York Times, Oct. 26, 1929:
 ''Cautioning against hysterical selling, brokerage houses in their market letters this morning will strike a note of optimism, advising the purchase of seasoned stocks at the present low levels. The public is strongly urged not to liquidate stocks in the present market.'' 
 J. L. Julian, a partner in the financial firm Fenner & Beane, in The New York Times, Oct. 26, 1929:
 ''The worst is over. The selling yesterday was panicky brought on by hysteria. General conditions are good. Our inquiries assure us that throughout the country business is sound.'' 
 The Harvard Economic Society, November 1929:
 ''A severe depression like that of 1920-21 is outside the range of probability. We are not facing protracted liquidation.'' 
 Bernard Baruch, cablegram to Winston Churchill, Nov. 15, 1929:
 ''Financial storm definitely passed.'' 
 President Herbert Hoover on Dec. 3, 1929, in a speech before a joint session of Congress:
 ''I am convinced ... we have re-established confidence. Wages should remain stable. A very large degree of industrial unemployment and suffering which would otherwise have occurred has been prevented.'' 
 Treasury Secretary Andrew W. Mellon, Dec. 31, 1929, in a statement issued while he was yachting off Nassau, the Bahamas, on his winter vacation:
 ''I see nothing ... in the present situation that is either menacing or warrants pessimism. During the winter months there may be some slackness or unemployment but hardly more than at this season each year. I have every confidence that there will be a revival of activity in the spring, and that during the coming year the country will make steady progress.'' 
 Of course, not everyone was so optimistic.
 Roger Babson, a well-known businessman and publisher of business and financial statistics, offered this warning in a speech before a business conference in Wellesley, Mass., on Sept. 5, 1929: ''More people are borrowing and speculating today than ever in our history. Sooner or later a crash is coming and it may be terrific. Wise are those investors who now get out of debt and reef their sails.''
 It should be noted, perhaps, that the year before, Mr. Babson had said that ''the election of Hoover and a Republican Congress should result in continued prosperity in 1929.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AFTER THE FALL: The lingering bustle on Wall Street in November 1929. The crash put the lie to a roster of rosy scenarios. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: PAULA G ROSPUT REYNOLDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



466 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: SKID ROW FARMING

BYLINE: BY CHRISTINE MUHLKE

 BODY:
When the singer-turned-Urban-Farming-organizer Taja Sevelle saw an architect's model of a plant-covered wall for an Anthropologie store, she thought, Can you grow food on it? She imagined vertical produce on Skid Row in Los Angeles, free for the picking. Robin Osler of Elmslie Osler Architects in New York helped her vision bear fruit. In August, Urban Farming Food Chain walls were installed at two Skid Row homeless housing facilities, a nearby food bank and a high school, their clip-on trays preplanted with strawberries, peppers, lettuces and other edibles. The next goal is to design a mobile kitchen for cooking demonstrations. Osler sees the wall as something that can go up anywhere in the U.S. ''It's not using valuable horizontal real estate; it's not creating economic issues for a developer to battle against,'' she said. CHRISTINE MUHLKE (MM72) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (88%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (88%); REAL ESTATE (86%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); HOMELESSNESS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



467 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Letters: The Future Is Now for Risk Takers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Pursuit of an Edge, in Steroids or Stocks'' (Economic View, Oct. 5) offered two conditions that must be met for today's type of market ''steroid'' failure to occur: Investors must see a high probability of gain with only a small chance of significant loss from their actions, and rewards depend strongly on relative performance. 
 But shouldn't we consider that risk aversion has to do not only with probability, but also with timing? 
 Many athletes are willing to risk having chronic health problems so long as those injuries manifest themselves after their athletic careers. In short, the further we can discount risks into the future (especially if our future predictions are unrealistic) the more chances we're willing to take today. 
 The problem on Wall Street is that the future arrived a little sooner than many participants had anticipated. Therefore, the most effective remedies will be those that short-circuit the discounting of risk.
 Peter K. Schoonmaker
 Portland, Ore., Oct. 6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEROIDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%) OREGON, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



468 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Are We Rome? Tu Betchus!

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
With modernity crumbling, our thoughts turn to antiquity.
 The decline and fall of the American Empire echoes the experience of the Romans, who also tumbled into the trap of becoming overleveraged empire hussies.
 As our sand-castle economy washes away under the tide of bad gambles and debts, this most self-indulgent society lurches toward stoicism (even bankrupt Iceland gives us the cold shoulder and turns to a solvent superpower). It's going to require more than giving up constant infusions of stocks, Starbucks and Botox.
 As Seneca, the Roman Stoic who advised treating the body ''somewhat strictly,'' wrote in a letter: ''Avoid whatever is approved of by the mob, and things that are the gift of chance. Whenever circumstance brings some welcome thing your way, stop in suspicion and alarm ...They are snares. ... we think these things are ours when in fact it is we who are caught. That track leads to precipices; life on that giddy level ends in a fall.'' 
 The study of Latin and Greek, with illuminations on morality, philosophy, mob rule and chariot races, reached a nadir in the greedy '80s and '90s, when it seemed irrelevant for kids who yearned to be investment bankers and high-tech millionaires. But now we've learned the hard way that greed is bad -- avaritia mala est -- and the classics have staged a comeback. Amo Latinam, so I was happy to see last week's Times story about the soaring enrollment for Latin classes in New York.
 In high school, I translated swatches of Julius Caesar's ''The Battle for Gaul'' from Latin to English while nibbling cheese crackers. To boost the felicitous new trend toward Latin, I enlisted Gary D. Farney, an associate professor of history at Rutgers University, to translate (loosely and creatively) from English to Latin ''The Battle of Gall,'' my take below on why the hyperventilating Republicans are not veni, vidi, vici-ing.
 Bellum Gallium
 Manes Julii Caesaris paucis diebus aderant -- ''O, most bloody sight!'' -- cum Ioannes McCainus, mavericus et veteranus captivusque Belli Francoindosinini, et Sara Palina, barracuda borealis, qui sneerare amant Baracum Obamam causa oratorii, pillorant ut demagogi veri, Africanum-Americanum senatorem Terrae Lincolni, ad Republicanas rallias.
 Rabidi subcanes candidati, pretendant ''no orator as Brutis is,'' ut ''stir men's blood'' et disturbant mentes populi ad ''a sudden flood of mutiny,'' ut Wilhelmus Shakespearus scripsit.
 Cum Quirites Americani ad rallias Republicanas audiunt nomen Baraci Husseini Obamae, clamant ''Mortem!'' ''Amator terroris!'' ''Socialiste!'' ''Bomba Obamam!'' ''Obama est Arabus!'' ''Caput excidi!'' tempus sit rabble-rouseribus desistere ''Smear Talk Express,'' ut Stephanus Colbertus dixit. Obama demonatus est tamquam Musulmanus-Manchurianus candidatus -- civis ''collo-cerviciliaris'' ad ralliam Floridianam Palinae exhabet mascum Obamae ut Luciferis.
 Obama non queretur high-tech lynching. Sed secreto-serventes agentes nervosissmi sunt.
 Vix quisque audivit nomen ''Palinae'' ante lunibus paucis. Surgivit ex suo tanning bed ad silvas in Terram Eskimorum, rogans quis sit traitorosus, ominosus, scurrilosus, periculosus amator LXs terroris criminalisque Chicagoani? Tu betchus!
 ''Caeca ambitio Obamana,'' novum rumorem Palina McCainusque dixit. ''Cum utilis, Obama laborat cum amatore terroris Wilhelmo Ayro. Cum putatus, perjuravit.'' McCainianus bossus maximus Francus Keatinx vocat Obamam, ''plebeium,'' et ut iuvenum snifferendum cocaini minimi (''a little blow.'')
 Cum Primus Dudus, spousus Palinanus, culpari attemptaret ''Centurionem-Gate,'' judices Terrae Santae Elvorumque castigat gubernatricem Palinam de abusu auctoritatis per familiam revengendum.
 Tamen Sara et Ioannes bury Obama, not praise him. Maverici, ut capiunt auxilium de friga-domina, hench-femina, Cynthia McCaina Birrabaronessa, (quae culpat Obamam periculandi suum filum in Babylonia), brazen-iter distractant mentes populares de minimissimis IV 0 I K.ibus, deminutione ''Motorum Omnium,'' et Depressione Magna II.0. Omnes de Georgio Busio Secundo colossale goofballo. ''V'' (because there's no W. in Latin) etiam duxit per disastrum ad gymnasium.
 Gubernatrix (prope Russia) Palina, spectans candidaciam MMXII, post multam educationem cum Kissingro et post multam parodiam de Sabbatis Nocte Vivo atque de Tina Feia, ferociter vituperat Obamam, ut supralupocidit (aerial shooting of wolves) in Hyperborea. 
 Vilmingtoni, in Ohionem, McCain's Mean Girl (Ferox Puella) defendit se gladiatricem politicam esse: ''Pauci dicant, O Jupiter, te negativam esse. Non, negativa non sum, sed verissima.'' Talk about lipsticka in porcam! Quasi Leeus Atwater de oppugnatione Busii Primi ad Dukakem: ''non negativus, sed comparativus.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLASSICS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TRENDS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); HISTORY (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ICELAND (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



469 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Practical Traveler: Fall Harvest of New York Deals

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
AS New York City's economy starts to experience ripple effects from the Wall Street meltdown, visitors to the city might finally be getting the upper hand when it comes to overpriced hotels, overbooked restaurants and over-the-top spas, with prices being slashed and special deals suddenly being offered. 
 Orbitz.com is offering as much as 20 percent off many New York hotels, including Le Parker Meridien, the Sheraton Manhattan at Times Square and the Westin New York. Quikbook.com, a New York-based hotel discount site, has been featuring periodic sales with rates for as many as 20 Manhattan hotels cut by 15 percent. 
 Affinia Hotels, which has five properties in New York, recently ran a seven-day sale with rates as low as $199 a night, nearly half off normal rates. (Look for a similar sale in early January from the chain.) Right now, two Kimpton hotels, 70 Park Avenue and the Muse, are offering 20 percent off the best available rate Fridays and Saturdays. 
 ''Even over periods that are extremely tight, there seems to be more availability than in the past,'' said Ray Vastola, president of Quikbook.com, pointing out that some very good deals should be available for the first two weeks of December, when the city is typically packed with out-of-town visitors for the holiday season. 
 Don't expect large-scale discounting by brand-name hotels, however. Instead, keep an eye out for targeted, last-minute deals. 
 ''The hotel industry has learned that lowering your rates across the board has proven to be counterproductive,'' said Paul Kirwin, president of Carlson Hotels Worldwide -- the Americas. ''We use our brand sites to offer on short demand -- short windows if you will -- special buying opportunities.'' 
 Some hotels, loath to suggest that they are discounting, are quietly releasing deals through third-party channels. A few weeks ago, rooms at the Carlton, a luxury hotel on Madison Avenue, could be had for $259 with a discount code from Travelzoo.com. The deal, which was about $100 off normal rates, wasn't anywhere to be found on the hotel's own site, however.
 And when I called to confirm the bargain with the hotel, a spokesman demurred in an e-mail message, ''The hotel is not interested in promoting this particular offer at the moment.'' Instead, he pushed the hotel's ''Pink Ribbon'' cancer-donation package, offered through Nov. 30 for $454 a night. 
 Rather than cut rates outright, some hotels are being more aggressive with promotions to entice travelers to extend their stays or make repeat visits. The Loews Regency, on Park Avenue, is promoting a ''Harvest of Benefits'' package through Dec. 30 with a $50 credit for a two-night stay, $75 for three nights and $100 for four or more.
 The Omni Berkshire Place, which typically has a steady influx of business travelers, is sending e-mail promotions to previous customers to encourage them to come back for a weekend break. ''We are letting our own best customers -- those who reside in the area, those who have used the hotel in the past and those who are likely prospects -- know that we have availability, particularly on the weekends,'' said Caryn Kboudi, a spokeswoman for the Omni chain. 
 New York City has been able to sustain exorbitant hotel rates for so long largely because of an influx of international tourists -- particularly Europeans -- taking advantage of the weak dollar for major shopping sprees and splashing out on trendy hotels. But as the financial crisis spreads, such splurges will be hard to sustain. 
 ''My overall concern for the New York City market would be the combination of events on Wall Street and a strengthening dollar,'' said Jonathan M. Tisch, chief executive of Loews Hotels and a former chairman of NYC & Company, New York's tourism marketing organization. A drop in demand would inevitably benefit tourists, Mr. Tisch added. 
 ''There would be opportunity to stay at hotels that typically over the past few years have been booked,'' he said, ''and you will be able to combine that to get into some restaurants that also might have, to date, offered you 6 or 10 p.m. I will not name the restaurant, but I already know of a situation where friends from Miami wanted to go to one of the tightest restaurants in the city in two weeks'' and ''they were able to get a reservation.'' 
 Now don't expect to get into Babbo anytime soon, but a general sense of belt-tightening is creating new opportunities for diners. ''In aggregate we are definitely seeing an increased number of reservations available at 8 p.m. (or 6, if we're talking about pre-theater),'' Ben Leventhal, an editor in chief at the dining blog Eater.com, wrote in an e-mail message. 
 On Eater.com's ''New York resyfeed'' -- which offers a spot check of restaurant availability on that day -- prime reservations were open at several hot spots in recent weeks, including Matsugen, a newly opened restaurant from Jean-Georges Vongerichten, and the Four Seasons.
 Newer restaurants that would have remained packed for months are now easier to get into, Mr. Leventhal said. ''I think that one reason we're seeing this is because when money is tighter, people are less willing to take a risk -- to waste money on a high beta meal, so to speak, one that may turn out unenjoyable.'' 
 Some restaurants are introducing promotions. Hundred Acres, in SoHo, just introduced a happy hour special, from 5 to 7 p.m., featuring $2 organic corn dogs and $3 ice cream floats. Icon, the restaurant at the W New York -- The Court, is offering a six-course tasting menu for $66 this fall, in place of one previously offered at $90.
 Need a massage after looking at your portfolio? Spa Week, which has become a bi-annual event, with spas offering signature treatments for $50, begins tomorrow and runs through Oct. 19 (www.spaweek.org). 
 To encourage repeat visits, the popular Bliss spas are offering 10 percent off a facial, massage or body treatment if you book it for a Monday through Thursday as you check out. Also, book the $160 Triple Oxygen Treatment facial by Oct. 31 and get a free hot cream manicure or bikini wax.
 ''We are seeing more availability closer to the actual appointment date than we did six months to a year ago'' across all three Bliss spas in New York, said Kerry O'Day, the Bliss marketing director. ''This allows people to snag sought-after Saturday spots without booking six weeks in advance.''
 While New York city tourism is still far from desperate, lavish spending has suddenly become taboo. 
 ''The bravura gesture of somebody saying, 'Let's have Lafite' or picking out $200 or $300 bottles of wine -- that has stopped,'' said Tim Zagat, chief executive of the Zagat restaurant survey. ''It's no longer considered to be chic to spend that kind of money. You look stupid when you do it.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING LEIF PARSONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LODGING (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BRANDING (69%)

COMPANY: CARLSON HOTELS WORLDWIDE (91%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (58%); TRAVELZOO INC (52%)

TICKER: OWW (NYSE) (58%); TZOO (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (52%); SIC7313 RADIO, TELEVISION, & PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES (52%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



470 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: A Specter's Shadow Returns to Haunt Moscow

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

DATELINE: Moscow 

 BODY:
 LAST weekend, Moscow blocked off two streets to make way for a small Communist demonstration. It was a march in memory of about 150 people who were killed in October 1993, when hard-line deputies in the Parliament tried to wrest power from Boris Yeltsin and halt the lurching course he was steering toward constitutional democracy and capitalism. 
 The whole, vast mass of Russia seemed to teeter for a few days. Sympathizers flocked to Moscow's White House, where the deputies were barricaded, and sat watch around bonfires, full of passion for the Soviet Union and the Communist Party. It didn't seem impossible that the gains of five years would vanish overnight. 
 I lived here then. I can't remember what impulse drove me to do it -- maybe it is enough to say that I was 22, and that the weather was nice -- but on Oct. 3, I showed my international student ID card to the Afghan war veterans at the door and walked into the White House, a warren of exhausted deputies and cable news anchors. Then I trailed along after the ''defenders of the White House,'' as the Parliament's supporters called themselves, as they surged to the mayor's office, breaking windows and looting postcards from a gift shop on the ground floor. 
 The crowd was euphoric, convinced that their moment had come, but then I began to hear gunshots. I saw a man dragged out of the mayor's office with blood on his head, and watched an old woman clinging to a tree, wailing, ''Fascism must be stopped!'' By nightfall, two young Americans I knew had been shot as the rebels tried to seize the television tower. I stayed up all night, holed up in an office building, and watched the next morning as tanks rumbled into the center of Moscow and began to shell Parliament. 
 Those events -- a very short civil war, you could call it -- were neutralized by the history that followed: Mr. Yeltsin survived a Communist challenge to win a second term and Russia's economic transformation took on the air of inevitability. The left's voice grew quieter; then Vladimir Putin succeeded Mr. Yeltsin, bringing stability and growth and extinguishing political opposition. 
 Last week, when a Communist member of the Duma, the lower house in Parliament, proposed a moment of silence in memory of those who died in 1993, the proposal was voted down. 
 On Saturday, the ''defenders of the White House'' reconvened in a city that has barreled past them. Down the block, crystalline mockups of new skyscrapers were on display in a storefront. Moscow has been restored to its pre-Revolutionary luster, with rows of mansions painted the colors of Easter eggs.
 I made my way through a happy crowd in front of the zoo, and, around the corner, there they were: the demonstrators, 15 years older, marching in slow straight lines and carrying portraits of the dead. 
 It was like seeing ghosts. They wore cheap, polyester suits in the blues, grays and browns that clothed generations of Soviets. Elderly women wore bows in their hair and black socks under their pumps. Their aging leaders rode on a truck, shouting through tinny megaphones.
 Their faces registered grief: They had lost Russia. They were dying off themselves. On the sidewalk, Valentina Ivanova, 56, was wiping away tears. ''We once were a great country,'' she said. ''Now we are divided into the rich and the poor.'' 
 They were poor, the people marching in front of us. The posters read, ''No more increase in the price of food!'' and ''Revolution will return!'' and ''Capitalism = Death.'' Igor Mishenev, marching at the end of the procession, described Russia's post-Soviet history as a long heartbreak: The life expectancy for men is 59; the birth rate is half what it was in the late 1980s. 
 A small portion may have become wealthy, he said, but millions suffer. ''All our slogans,'' he said. ''They all came true.'' 
 Though he did not mention it, Russia's new capitalism was experiencing its worst week in 10 years. Stocks were down 53.2 percent since Jan. 1. The threat of global recession now looms so large that it threatens the oil boom that defined Mr. Putin's presidency. 
 As Russia heads into a period of economic distress, it would be foolish to forget how thin the film of wealth is in this society, and the vast ocean that lies below it. Mr. Putin certainly has not; though he silenced virtually all political opposition during his presidency, his most alarming challenge came from angry pensioners. Hundreds of thousands of them -- some say up to 2 million -- took to streets all over Russia in 2005, furious over his decision to convert benefits like free transportation and housing subsidies into cash payments. Mr. Putin backpedaled, blaming subordinates for the decision. 
 And though our attention is often trained on Russia's wealthiest men, some economists say a real threat to the Kremlin's monopoly on power could eventually come from the poor, who have taken the brunt of high inflation rates. I asked the economist Mikhail Delyagin, a former adviser to Mr. Yeltsin, what recent event marked the end of Mr. Putin's golden age. The war with Georgia? The battles with oligarchs? The liquidity crisis? He pointed, instead, to a day in September when bread prices leapt by 30 percent to 60 percent in several Russian cities. 
 Olga Kryshtanovskaya, a prominent sociologist, said that ''Putin's popularity is connected with money, with state money,'' which could be used to enrich programs for pensioners, the intelligentsia, or other restless segments of society. With oil prices high, she said, ''he was swimming in money.'' But, she added, ''If it disappears, then, at first, there will be weak voices; but then there will be a stronger voice of protest.'' Where would they come from? ''Whoever suffers.'' 
 When they reached the gates of the old Parliament building, the crowd of aging Communists began to disperse. A cadaverous man in a shabby, cloth coat stood in the middle of the road, declaiming the lyrics to a Soviet anthem, and the portraits of the dead were loaded into the back of a van for the next demonstration. Mr. Mishenev, with a twinkle, said he expected to see the Communists back in power in Russia before too long.
 And then he was gone, waving his hammer-and-sickle flag behind him. Street-cleaning machines roared down the avenue. The traffic police stepped aside. Behind them was a backlog of irritated motorists in late-model foreign cars, and they rushed down the street where, a minute before, Mr. Mishenev had stood.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ANNIVERSARY: Last weekend, demonstrators remembered the crushing by Boris Yeltsin of a 1993 rebellion led by Communist legislators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); POLITICS (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); EASTER SEASON (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); CIVIL WAR (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); MAYORS (70%); VETERANS (67%); RETAILERS (65%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



471 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: A Power That May Not Stay So Super

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
AT the turn of the 20th century, toward the end of a brutal and surprisingly difficult victory in the Second Boer War, the people of Britain began to contemplate the possibility that theirs was a nation in decline. They worried that London's big financial sector was draining resources from the industrial economy and wondered whether Britain's schools were inadequate. In 1905, a new book -- a fictional history, set in the year 2005 -- appeared under the title, ''The Decline and Fall of the British Empire.''
 The crisis of confidence led to a sharp political reaction. In the 1906 election, the Liberals ousted the Conservatives in a landslide and ushered in an era of reform. But it did not stave off a slide from economic or political prominence. Within four decades, a much larger country, across an ocean to the west, would clearly supplant Britain as the world's dominant power.
 The United States of today and Britain of 1905 are certainly more different than they are similar. Yet the financial shocks of the past several weeks -- coming on top of an already weak economy and an unpopular war -- have created their own crisis of national confidence. 
 On Friday, as the stock market finished one of its worst weeks by falling yet again, to roughly half of its level just one year ago, the Gallup Poll reported that Americans were substantially more pessimistic about the economy than they have been in more than two decades of polling. Nearly 60 percent say the economy is in poor shape, and 90 percent say it's still getting worse.
 ''One thing seems probable to me,'' Peer Steinbruck, the German finance minister, said recently. ''The U.S. will lose its status as the superpower of the global financial system.'' At another time, that remark might have sounded like mere nationalist bluster. Right now, it doesn't seem so ridiculous to ask whether 2008 will come to be seen as the first year of a distinctly non-American century.
 At the heart of the troubles, both short term and long term, is debt. Debt helped create the housing bubble and has now left almost one of every six homeowners with a mortgage larger than the value of their home. Debt built up, and then laid low, modern Wall Street, where firms borrowed $30 for every $1 they owned. And in the coming years, debt will constrain the United States government, as it copes with the combined deficits created by the Bush administration's policies, the ever-more expensive financial rescue and the biggest item of all, Medicare for the baby boomers.
 In essence, households, banks and the government have already spent some of their future earnings. The current crisis marks the point at which the bills begin to get paid. Whereas Britain lumbered under the weight of imperial overreach, as the historian Niall Ferguson has written, the United States will be shackled primarily by its financial overreach. 
 ''Given the burden of debt that has accumulated, it's hard to see the U.S. economy growing as fast as it did over the past few decades,'' Mr. Ferguson said. ''There is a profound mood shift occurring.''
 But he added two caveats. The political language of both presidential campaigns makes clear that many voters, for all the current pessimism, still believe in the idea of American pre-eminence. So, apparently, do many of the world's investors.
 In recent weeks, the dollar has held its own. Stocks in every other major country are down about as much over the last year as they are in the United States, if not much more. America may not be a safe haven anymore, but it does seem to be safer haven. 
 Robert Zoellick, the president of the World Bank, said that he was recently speaking to a senior Chinese economist, who said that people in his home country -- today's rising economic power -- don't see the sky falling on the American economy. ''They know its ability to turn around problems is really unmatched, historically,'' Mr. Zoellick said, quoting the economist about the United States. ''At the same time, they ask themselves, Will the United States get at some of the root causes that could determine its real strength over the next 10 or 20 or 30 years?''
 This is not the first time in recent history that the economic position of the United States has appeared precarious. At various points between the mid-1970s and early 1990s, Europe and Japan each looked like the next great power. Neither turned out to be.
 Japan suffered through its own burst bubble and spent years denying the depth of its problems. Europe proved unable to create engines of growth that could match the software, biotechnology or entertainment industries in the United States. 
 Taken to its extreme, the American preference for a faster, riskier capitalism led directly to the current crisis. But that preference also helps explain why America is weathering the crisis at least as well as other countries.
 Compared with many banks elsewhere, American banks uncovered their problems fairly quickly. Consider the case of Mr. Steinbruck, the German finance minister. Only two weeks ago, around the time that he was predicting the end of American financial dominance, he rejected calls for a Europe-wide bailout. The crisis, he said, was largely American. Last Sunday, Mr. Steinbruck and Chancellor Angela Merkel had to go before television cameras to assure Germans that their government was guaranteeing their savings. 
 (On Friday, Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, seemed to deliver a message to the Germans in an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal: ''The days of finger pointing and schadenfreude are over.'')
 Policy makers in this country have also seemed behind the curve for much of the last year. On Friday, only a week after Ben S. Bernanke, the current Fed chairman, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, dismissed the idea as unwise, Mr. Paulson said the government would buy stock in financial firms. The British government announced a similar plan on Tuesday. 
 On the whole, though, American officials have been more aggressive than their overseas counterparts, and that has served as a reminder of the American economy's durable flexibility. 
 It is possible, then, that the main legacy of the crisis will be some form of corrective to the country's recent excesses. The economy looks to be heading into a period of more regulated, but still American-style, capitalism, more along the lines of how it operated in the 1950s, 1960s and 1990s. Those three decades happen to have produced the biggest and most widely shared economic gains since World War II.
 But if that outcome is possible, it's not inevitable, and many economists say it isn't even likely. The debts run up in recent years are particularly unfortunate, because they stole resources from the future without laying the groundwork for future growth. ''If you told me we were spending like crazy to build schools and send everyone to college, that would have infinitely different implications than borrowing like crazy to finance current consumption,'' said Christina Romer, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley. 
 Schools, roads, airports and the medical system, as well as the country's energy policy, all appear to need significant fixing, and yet there will be less money to fix them than there was 5 or 10 years ago. With the coming explosion in Medicare costs, the federal budget deficit could eventually get so large that foreign investors would get spooked. They might then decide that other economies were safer bets and shift more of their lending there. Were that to happen, and the United States struggled to attract financing, the country would face a whole new crisis.
 As it is, the Chinese economy has grown so quickly in recent years that it could overtake the American economy as the world's largest by 2027, according to Goldman Sachs. Just three years ago, Goldman predicted that China was unlikely to become No. 1 until at least 2040. 
 Some of this catch-up is inevitable. As in the British Empire's day, poorer countries are able to attract investment thanks to their low wages and also copy the successes of their richer rivals, notes Benjamin Polak, an economic historian at Yale. China still seems considerably less advanced, relative to its rivals, than the United States was in 1905. China remains a politically insecure, deeply unequal country.
 But it is indeed making enormous progress, and that progress has consequences. Economic might translates quite directly into political and military might.
 Will that prospect be enough to galvanize a serious response to the long-term economic problems in the United States? Or are there still more crises to come? 
 ''The political system does not deal well with gradual, long-term problems,'' Peter Orszag, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, said. ''It deals with crises, often imperfectly, but it does deal with them. The current experience makes the case.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DECLINE: Even as the future King Edward VIII shot a tiger in India in 1921, Britain's empire was overstretched. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CENTRAL PRESS/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); HOME PRICES (65%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); MEDICARE (60%)

PERSON: PEER STEINBRUECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



472 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: The Frugal Teenager, Ready or Not

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

 BODY:
WHEN Wendy Postle's two children were younger, saying ''yes'' gave her great joy. Yes to all those toys. The music lessons. The blowout birthday parties.
But as her son and daughter approached adolescence, yes turned into a weary default. ''Sometimes it was just easier to say, 'O.K., whatever,' than to have the battle of 'no,' '' said Mrs. Postle, a working mother who lives in Hilliard, Ohio, a middle-class suburb of Columbus.
This year her husband's 401(k) savings are evaporating. Medical bills are nipping at the couple's heels. Gas prices are still taking a toll. Mrs. Postle recently decided that although she and her husband had always sacrificed their own luxuries for Zach, 13, and Kaitlyn, 15, the teenagers would now have to cut back as well.
''No'' could no longer be the starting gun of family fights. It would have to be an absolute. 
''I tried to tell Kaitlyn, 'We'll get the Hollister jeans at a thrift store,' '' Mrs. Postle recalled. ''She got angry and said: 'That's gross! Other people wore them!' ''
Indulged. Entitled. Those labels have become hot-glued to middle-class and affluent teenagers born after the last major economic downturn, in the late 1980s. They were raised in comparatively flush times by parents who believed that keeping children happy, stimulated and successful, no matter the cost, was an unassailable virtue. A 2007 study by the Harrison Group, a market research firm in Waterbury, Conn., found that nearly 75 percent of parents caved in to their children's nagging for new video games, half within two weeks.
But as the economy totters, many families have no choice but to cut back, which may lead to a shift in their thinking about money and permissiveness. Last week a semiannual survey of 7,000 15- to 18-year-olds by Piper Jaffray, an investment bank and research firm, showed that annual discretionary spending by teenagers, whose money comes from allowance, gifts and part-time jobs, had dropped 27 percent to $2,600, from its spring 2006 peak of $3,560.
''Parents are suddenly saying 'no' and their kids are saying, 'What do you mean?' '' said Robert D. Manning, an economist at the Rochester Institute of Technology and author of ''Credit Card Nation.''
These are difficult conversations. Panicked, stressed parents are struggling to explain and impose restraints, just when teenagers are expecting more spending money, not less. Many adolescents respond with anger at what they see as a bait-and-switch world, fear for their families and confusion about budgeting.
Family therapists, teachers and parents tell anecdotes about teenagers who are badly rattled by the news, in denial, or both. A daughter is shaken as her mother calls for an emergency family meeting. The son of a Wall Street financier whose fortune has collapsed tauntingly tells his father he can take care of himself: he will sell more marijuana.
''It is an unbelievable shock to affluent families that their lifestyles are gone for good,'' Dr. Manning said, ''and their children are ill prepared for it.''
Mrs. Postle's teenagers asked whether the family was poor. Mrs. Postle, who teaches economics at the Columbus chapter of Junior Achievement and whose husband manages heating and cooling commercial installations, felt insulted.
The family was not poverty-stricken, she responded, but staying solvent was costly. Although many parents consider finances the province of grown-ups, Mrs. Postle decided her children were too insulated. She showed them the monthly bills.
The teenagers were stunned. When her son saw the mortgage bill he thought it was an annual payment.
American teenagers, many of whom have weak quantitative skills, are generally naive about finance. In a 2007 study for Charles Schwab, the financial services company, 62 percent of teenagers believed they were prepared to deal with the financial world after high school. That boast was undercut when they were probed about topics like check-writing and paying bills.
One recent morning, students in an economics seminar at Elisabeth Irwin High School, a private school in Manhattan, displayed an emerging grasp of the financial meltdown. But when discussing their personal finances, many just seemed bewildered.
National surveys put older teenagers' average monthly allowance at $100 and upward. At Elisabeth Irwin, the weekly allowances ranged from $20 to $150. Some parents gave students strict allocation instructions; others, only vague direction.
And while many had debit and credit cards, some were hard pressed to explain the difference. ''I don't understand why I got charged for an overdraft,'' one junior said. One girl admitted to having once run up $5,000 on her credit card. Lesson learned! Now she rarely uses the card. '' I make my mom buy it!'' she said.
To ''earn'' spending money, some students were required to do minimal chores, others to maintain minimal civility.
Regardless of family means, most did not have after-school jobs.
''I've never had a job,'' said Nazir Khan, 16, a first-generation American whose father is a cook and whose mother is an occasional caregiver. ''My parents want me to focus on schoolwork.''
They all felt the pressure and the desire to acquire: their knowledge of brands and prices was encyclopedic. ''The stuff it takes for them to be perceived as middle class is extraordinary,'' said Tom Murphy, who teaches the high school's ''Economics and Society'' seminar. ''Laptops, Xboxes, iPods, phones -- and it's nonnegotiable.''
The messages about money from their families struck some as contradictory. Joe Sharp, 16, said his parents had given him whatever he wanted. But his grandmother would talk about World War II and rationing. ''I'd say, 'It's not the war, we're fine,' '' he said. ''But she taught me that saving is definitely important.''
After class, one girl said: ''We are so being bribed. I'm bad at math but if I get an A, my father will give me a designer bag.''
And yet, she added shyly: ''I love the gifts but I'd really like to spend time with him. But my parents are working harder than ever and they're so worried. I don't want to force him to spend time with me. I can be a real earache.''
Discernable in their anecdotes were the abrupt, flailing efforts of parents to rein in their teenagers, as difficult economic times bear down.
One girl said: ''My dad will buy three new shirts but then he'll tell me to cut down on my spending. So I don't know what to think.''
A junior recounted a fight with her father. She had shouted: ''I can afford the things I buy because I don't have to pay expenses or rent.'' He had retorted: ''Now you're going to: $25 a night and $15 for your friends who stay over!'' (Threat rescinded.)
Some students were beginning to translate the economic crisis personally. A few thought it had become unseemly to flaunt goods with designer labels. Ruth Jurgensen, the principal of the diverse school, noted that many students were alarmed about dwindling college aid.
Even their fear frightens them. Chappell Laird, 16, knows that her father, a restaurant owner, and mother, a photographer's agent, are affected by the economic downturn. But she doesn't seek further information. ''It scares me to know more,'' she said. ''It makes me nervous.''
Parents hardly relish these conversations. As they sit down with their teenagers, they are agonizing over their own feelings of failure. ''Parents are going to feel they're not giving their kids everything,'' said Madeline Levine, a California psychologist who writes about adolescents in her book ''The Price of Privilege.'' ''The kids are going to be confused. They've never known not having what they want. And the parents are going to have to tolerate their kids' anger.''
Wendy Postle said her teenagers have become angrier and more argumentative about money. ''They seem so selfish,'' she said. She wondered whether the fault was hers, whether that early lavishness was a parental failing.
In familial relationships, money can be a proxy for love and trust, said Steven J. Goldstein, a psychologist who teaches at the Ackerman Institute for the Family in Manhattan. When money has to be limited, underlying tensions become exacerbated. In his practice he has recently seen adolescent eating disorders become more severe and mood swings increase.
But for some families, he added, the financial crisis has been a rallying point, compelling them to articulate values and priorities for the first time. An unemployed father, he said, learned to speak with his teenagers ''in such a way that they wouldn't panic, but gave them a sense that he was going through a different journey, not one just filled with success.''
Last month Hildegaard Link's two daughters, 15 and 11, rushed home, frightened by headlines about the stock market. The older one ''totally freaked out,'' recalled Ms. Link, a civil engineer in Brooklyn. ''She asked: 'What does this mean for me? For my family?' ''
Ms. Link reassured her but asked whether everyone could do with a little less. ''Let's brainstorm.''
The girls made choices: lessons for either drum or violin, every two weeks; fewer restaurant dinners; one new school outfit. ''They were not resentful,'' Ms. Link reported. ''They were relieved to be part of the process.''
Market researchers say that teenagers are, out of necessity, adjusting. Jeffrey Klinefelter, a senior research analyst at Piper Jaffray, said last week's survey showed that the amount teenagers allocated for clothes had increased 1 percent, but that they were patronizing stores with lower-priced labels.
Jim Taylor, vice chairman of the Harrison Group, the market research firm, said he had seen an evolution in family negotiations. As parents drop housecleaning and lawn services, they are asking their teenagers to pitch in, for pay.
''That reduces the cash flow for parents without reducing discretionary spending for kids,'' he said. ''Parents are asking kids to take responsibility for what is really important to them.''
Anecdotes like these prompt economists and therapists to find something positive in all the economic turbulence. ''The sooner we have these conversations in the family and as a society,'' said Dr. Manning, the economist, ''the sooner we can focus on core values, and have a more realistic dialogue about the meaning of happiness and money.''
KAITLYN POSTLE is having a bumpy adjustment. She has a weekend baby-sitting job and can't wait to turn 16, so she can find work at a mall.
''I used to ask for things and my parents would say, 'We can't do that,' '' she said in a phone interview. ''So I would throw a tantrum and get an attitude. They used to give in a lot. But that doesn't work now.''
The good news, she said, is that when she shops at thrift stores, she can buy more for her money. But now that she has a temporary license -- freedom! -- how will she pay for gas?
She assumes she will have to attend a local college and live at home. ''I don't have a problem with that,'' she said. ''Whatever. That way, I won't have to pay for everything.''
In the background, a half-shout of protest could be heard. ''Of course,'' Kaitlyn added, ''my parents aren't too happy about that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SALE Wendy Postle, with Kaitlyn, 15, has an eye on the register. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. KEVIN FITZSIMONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. ST8)
 TRICKLING DOWN: Elisabeth Irwin High School students interviewed about the impact of the economic crisis included, from left, Zoe Harris, Daisy Guevara, Giustina de Waal and Arija Bareikis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. ST9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL HOPPE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); PARENTS (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%); MARKET RESEARCH (64%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (64%)

COMPANY: PIPER JAFFRAY COS (52%)

TICKER: PJC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



473 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: Big Country

BYLINE: By J. R. MOEHRINGER. 
J. R. Moehringer is the author of ''The Tender Bar.''

 BODY:
STATE BY STATE
 A Panoramic Portrait of America
 Edited by Matt Weiland and Sean Wilsey
 Illustrated. 572 pp. Ecco/ HarperCollins Publishers. $29.95
 SAY what you want about fading regional differences, about the steamrolling effects of mass culture, Americans still feel uniquely defined by whichever state they call home. 
 That familiar, multicolored map hanging in every grade-school classroom is a periodic table, setting out the 50 basic elements of our national character. Squares, trapezoids, spherical blobs -- the states may be arbitrary shapes drawn on the land, but somehow they shape us. They help determine how we talk, what we eat and the various ways we regard one another. State-ism, in fact, is the last form of sanctioned discrimination. At long last, it's forbidden to prejudge based on race or gender, but it's still O.K., and kind of fun, to nod knowingly when someone loud turns out to be from New York. 
 This concept of a gerrymandered personal identity lies at the heart of ''State by State: A Panoramic Portrait of America,'' edited by Matt Weiland and Sean Wilsey. Taking as their inspiration the state guides published by the Federal Writers' Project during and shortly after the Great Depression, Weiland and Wilsey assembled 50 of America's finest writers and asked them to contribute essays on the same general theme: why my state is special -- or not. The result is a funny, moving, rousing collection, greater than the sum of its excellent parts, a convention of literary superdelegates, each one boisterously nominating his or her piece of the Republic. 
 The original state guides were godsends for starving writers. While the New Deal was re-employing millions of manual laborers in the building of roads and dams and bridges, the Federal Writers' Project was hiring 6,000 more-scholarly types, dispatching them to interview locals, visit statehouses, rummage through libraries, gather data on folklore, industry, politics, the works. Rewrite men and women then converted this raw data into hundreds of books and pamphlets, the most famous of which were the guides. Besides winning praise from the likes of Franklin D. Roosevelt and John Steinbeck, the project gave dignity and badly needed bread to a talented corps of stars and future stars, including Saul Bellow, John Cheever, Zora Neale Hurston and Richard Wright. 
 And yet, for all that literary firepower, the guides were often dry. They were supposed to be dry. They were, after all, guides. Many were meant to be stuffed in glove compartments, consulted only when readers hit the road. Weiland and Wilsey wanted something different -- ''more personal, more eccentric and more partial,'' Weiland explains in his introduction. ''To everyone we said: Tell us a story about your state, the more personal the better, something that captures the essence of the place.'' 
 What they got in many cases were searing mini-memoirs. Within her essay about Pennsylvania, for example, Andrea Lee embeds a sorrowful account of a childhood confrontation with racism. Jhumpa Lahiri, in her reminiscence about Rhode Island, relates a sad episode in which her mother received a series of anonymous, hateful letters. Charles Bock keeps his take on Nevada tightly focused on downtown Las Vegas, where, in the face of bullying developers and tireless burglars and creeping urban blight, his parents fought hard to hold on to their modest pawnshop. 
 Joshua Ferris finds the quintessence of Florida in the breakfast cafe where he washed dishes as a kid. His co-workers were classic hard-boiled Floridians, and some soft-boiled. Hazel, the ex-hippie, ''looked her age, which was probably 40, but a hard, used 40, the sort of 40 that says no dental insurance, terrible luck with men, estranged children and dogs waiting for her at home.'' Then there was Billy Ray, the waiter who hit on Ferris constantly. ''When he came out of the closet, he turned around and burned the closet.'' 
 Other essays are rooted in the present. Alexandra Fuller mythologizes her cabin in the lonesome hinterlands of Wyoming, and does likewise for the local cowboys, including one old cuss in a bar who explains why Wyoming has fewer humans than any other state. ''No, it isn't the mosquitoes so much -- although it is true they can stand flat-footed and procreate with a turkey. And it isn't the wind, although for sure it sucks more than it blows. It's the nine-month-long winters.'' Good to know. 
 Lydia Millet contrasts the glories of the desert around her house in Arizona with the vulgarity of the nearby Minit Market, ''the only place to buy food'' in her remote community. Millet describes the Minit in such minute detail that when this book lands, she might need to forage elsewhere for food: ''It is frequented by crowds of emaciated, sun-worn guys in jacked-up trucks, their acid-wash girlfriends and snaggletooth kids with half-open mouths and scarily vacant faces -- some, and sometimes all, of the above smelling from afar of nicotine or alcohol. . . . It's a blight of a place.'' 
 On second thought, Millet might just need to move. 
 I can imagine the typical reader jumping around in this collection, checking out his or her home state, then skipping to other states that are familiar. That's what I did at first. But it's an impulse to be resisted. ''State by State'' is best read chapter by chapter, as a picaresque journey, with a new narrator taking the wheel every five or six pages. There is a harum-scarum energy, a crazy logic, in going coast to coast alphabetically, from Point A to Point Z. 
 ONG after the journey ends, certain images refuse to fade. In Iowa, Dagoberto Gilb paints a field of American dreams -- thick rows of corn from which migrant workers, two by two, slowly emerge. In Alaska, Paul Greenberg describes a man holding a bloody walrus head by the eye socket, sawing at its tusk. In North Carolina's hog country, Randall Kenan dwells on a scene that can be described only as pork porn. 
 Fair warning: By Delaware you'll be hungry. By Ohio you'll be drooling. You'll crave Indiana mint candy, Wisconsin kringle, two distinct kinds of Southern barbecue and something called buttermilk pie. You'll also be smarter. You'll know what Butch and Sundance left behind every time they stole a horse, which state's prized limestone was used in the construction of the Pentagon and the Empire State Building, and the all-important difference between a ''traveler'' and a ''bubbler,'' two very distinct ways of wetting your whistle. 
 Some of the essays aren't quite essays. Two are cartoons. Alison Bechdel's strip about Vermont is lovely and fact-filled: The Abenaki had a rule that ''in their cramped winter wigwams, everyone got a small but inviolate space of their own.'' Jonathan Franzen offers a meta-essay, in which he seeks a private, face-to-face interview with New York, the Empire State herself. But she's become a kind of Ivanka J. Lo Minnelli of states, and so her publicist and various handlers run obsequious interference. It's very clever. 
 OF course not all the essays work. A few are outright dull. On the other hand, the problem might be that Will Blythe and Heidi Julavits set the bar too high. Blythe's cranky trek through New Hampshire is a delight, and he sticks the landing with a surprising, thought-provoking comparison of bloggers and Shakers. Julavits vows not to come off like an authority, a cardinal sin in her part of Maine, but she can't avoid being funny. ''In Maine, it's illegal tobait bears with doughnuts and then shoot them. . . . Maine has more cat owners than any other state. Maine's drug of choice is coffee brandy. . . . If you spend a year in Maine, you'll enjoy 128 days of rain.'' Then comes the payoff, a mock summation of Mainers that, when you remember it three days later, makes you laugh all over again. ''Just a lot of fat people hanging out in the rain with their cats, drinking coffee brandy and trying, without cheating, to kill a bear.'' 
 Julavits might also need to move when this book comes out. Maybe she can room with Millet. 
 Lastly, Anthony Doerr's gorgeously written ode to Idaho deserves special mention. Doerr touches on several of the major themes in ''State by State'' -- the rape of the land, the displacement of natives, the relentlessness of change -- and sounds a bleak note that echoes many of his fellow contributors. Bleakness is rarely attributed to the 1930s guides (the first of which was about Idaho), and that seems notable, since most were written during a massive economic catastrophe, on the verge of a global war. 
 Interweaving Thoreau-worthy rhapsodies about Idaho's natural beauty with lyrical threnodies for the Tukudeka, ''last of Idaho's tribes,'' Doerr describes making camp in the mountains, near the place where the Tukudeka made their last stand. He studies the night sky and ponders those cold, huddled, hurting Indian families, imagining what they felt on the brink of their apocalypse, their surrender to the United States Army. He considers the gulf of time standing between him and them -- and yet feels them close by. He makes their story ours. 
 It could happen, Doerr warns. One day, ''some final band of humans will build signal fires among the rocks and look down at who or whatever has come to finish us off.'' Not exactly the Whitman-esque song of optimism you look for, or hope for, in a ''panoramic portrait of America.'' But in 2008, in a world of wars, shortages, terrorism and ever worsening financial and ecological crises, it's a state of mind Americans everywhere know all too well.h

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TAMARA SHOPSIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); FOLKLORE (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); SUPERDELEGATES (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); AMERICA'S FINEST PRODUCTS (55%); PURESPECTRUM INC (55%); STATON INSTITUTE INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (55%); NAICS335129 OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3648 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%); NAICS541990 ALL OTHER PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: State by State (Book)>; State by State (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



474 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ROAD TO NOVEMBER; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: As Industries Dry Up, Frustration and Despair

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: ELKHART, Ind. 

 BODY:
To understand just how grim things have gotten in this northern Indiana town, consider a new law passed last month by the City Council that limits residents to one garage sale a month. 
 It seems the perpetual garage sales -- which for scores of people in this town are a sole source of income, and for others the only source of clothing -- were annoying some residents. The restrictions will make the financial pinch that much tighter. 
 ''I have no other option,'' said Todd Baker, 34, who lost his factory job in July right before his wife gave birth to their third child. Friday was his last permissible day to sell old children's clothing, muffin tins, a fake white Christmas tree, stereo speakers and dozens of household doodads out of his garage. 
 ''I've never missed a day of work in my life,'' Mr. Baker said. ''Man, I'm shocked that I have to shut this down. My neighbors are usually out here, too. We've got regulars who are in the same situation, or lost their house, and when the bank took it, they took everything that was in it. I'm just trying to do as much as I can because the heat bills are going to go up 25 percent this winter, too.''
 Elkhart, near the Michigan border in an area known as Michiana, is the white-hot center of the meltdown of the American economy. Its main industries, the manufacturing of recreational vehicles and motor homes, have fallen apart over the last year because of high gasoline prices. That has taken down ancillary businesses like R.V. parts suppliers and storage warehouses. 
 The jobless rate in Elkhart has increased more than in any metropolitan area in the country; it rose over 4.8 percentage points from August 2007 to August 2008. According to labor statistics released this summer, nearly 10,000 people were out of work, a rate of 9.3 percent. 
 ''I'm just dwindling to the bottom,'' Melinda Owens, 24, said as she emerged from the unemployment office. 
 City services are on the decline, and hold-ups are on the rise -- there were nine armed robberies or attempted armed robberies on convenience stores in just the last two weeks. On Friday, the front-page news of the paper, The Elkhart Truth, was about a local plastic company that was actually not closing its plant. 
 The busiest spot in town seems to be the unemployment office, where 20 people stood in line on Friday and streams more passed through. Bryan and Christy Fisher were among them. The couple lost their house to foreclosure this year, then found one to rent; next week they will downsize to an apartment. 
 Mr. Fisher's job in R.V. production has been reduced to four days every other week. ''For a family of five, this is a big deal,'' he said. ''We have three kids, and two of them are in high school. We are hoping to find a way to send them to college, but you can't send a kid to college on eight days of work a month.'' 
 Whether voters here believe that Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, or Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee, can offer solutions to the dire economy seems a matter of greatly mixed opinion. Mr. Fisher is planning to cast his lot with Mr. McCain, while his wife said she would vote for Mr. Obama. 
 ''I just feel like McCain's idea to tax your health care insurance is ludicrous,'' Ms. Fisher said. ''People in Elkhart are ready for a change, and they don't think it's going to come from McCain.''
 Political yard signs in the area seem to be about half and half, and interviews with people on the unemployment line break about even, too. But that in itself may be remarkable. Indiana has voted for a Democrat for president exactly once since 1936: in 1964, when Lyndon B. Johnson took the state. 
 In some of the political talk, there are undercurrents of something other than concern about Mr. Obama's relatively short experience in Washington.
 ''I think Obama's kind of arrogant,'' said Theresa Ghrist, 40, whose work schedule has been reduced at her R.V. plant. ''When it comes down to it around here, people are going to vote color, and I don't think people are ready to vote for a colored president. I don't care myself, but at work a lot of people talk color there.''
 A co-worker, Jim Podemski, agreed with her assessment, but added, ''I wouldn't want to vote Republican again.''
 While it may be hard to find a consistent political opinion in Elkhart, it is not hard to find people in pain. Nearly every street seems to have a house for sale or rent. Storefronts are newly shuttered. Masses of residents huddle outside the unemployment office, dragging on cigarettes and trading stories of companies that left, late unemployment checks, job leads that may or may not come to fruition. 
 ''It's horrible here,'' said Alicia Egas, 26. ''My fiance just got laid off. We have four kids, and we're not getting any income except for his unemployment. Food stamps are not giving us very much, and we're behind on rent, we're behind on utilities, and those are threatening to get shut off. And of course it's impossible to get a job around here that makes any money. I'm stressed. We've never been this low. I'm voting Obama because hopefully he can bring a change.''
 Kelly McCrory, 41, called Mr. Obama the ''lesser of two evils.'' He will vote for him, he said, ''because his vice-presidential candidate has a lot more on the ball than McCain's.'' 
 Mr. McCrory was one of the last people at his plant to lose his job, on Sept. 11. ''I was in the R.V. industry like everyone else,'' he said. ''I'm a lot better off than most people because I planned. But I'm down here filing for unemployment so I don't take the last trip down the toilet bowl.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Todd Baker, 34, who was laid off from his manufacturing job in the R.V. industry, held a yard sale at his home on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Elkhart, Indiana: The jobless rate in Elkhart, Ind., is around 9.3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); PLANT CLOSINGS (75%); RETAILERS (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (71%); STATISTICS (70%); CHRISTMAS (69%); CLOSINGS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (63%); ROBBERY (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%); PLASTICS (50%); CONVENIENCE STORES (50%)

COMPANY: PLASTIC CO LTD (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3085 PLASTICS BOTTLES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



475 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Bucking The Tide, Real Estate Funds Rose

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
FEW people grew richer from investments in mutual funds in the tumultuous third quarter, but many of those who put money into domestic real estate funds saw some modest gains. 
 The domestic real estate sector managed an average return of 2.3 percent for the quarter, according to Morningstar, although it was off 1.8 percent, on average, for the first nine months of the year. Global real estate funds, however, had average losses of 11.3 percent and 24.1 percent, respectively. Some $672 million of new money flowed into real estate funds in the quarter, according to AMG Data Services, the fund tracker. Some $4.3 billion flowed out during the same period last year.
 ''Real estate stocks are not as volatile as the rest of the financial markets,'' said Andrew Gogerty, a Morningstar analyst, referring to real estate investment trusts, or REITs, in the United States, which hold portfolios of commercial properties and make up the bulk of most of the funds' holdings. 
 Still, the REIT market had its own ups and downs during the quarter, and as the woes of the financial markets deepened, REITs sometimes moved in tandem with the broader stock market. Overseas, the losses in REITs were deeper, as economic weakness in Europe and Asia took its toll on global real estate companies and, by extension, globally focused funds. 
 Real estate companies, like most other businesses, have been hurt by the softer economy and the myriad problems in the credit markets, which have made it harder to secure loans to expand. But some industry analysts and fund managers believe that the outlook for commercial real estate in the United States is still relatively positive.
 ''There's no excessive supply,'' said Stanley J. Kraska Jr., the international managing director of LaSalle Investment Management. ''Entering this downturn, not a lot of new building was going on, and any new construction has been cut off.'' 
 David B. Rodgers, a real estate analyst at RBC Capital Markets, agreed. ''The underlying strength of the fundamentals is not too bad,'' he said. ''The supply picture is good, which is important, and management teams are stronger and more sophisticated, especially at the bigger REITs.''
 Some of the top-performing real estate funds during the quarter had significant holdings in the larger, blue-chip REITs, which fund managers perceive as better positioned to withstand the economic slowdown. 
 The top holdings of the Neuberger Berman Real Estate fund, which led all real estate funds with a quarterly return of 10.1 percent, include the Simon Property Group, the large developer of shopping malls; Public Storage, the ubiquitous operator of storage space; and Boston Properties and Vornado Realty, both of which specialize in office buildings. (Conversely, the Neuberger Berman Global Real Estate Fund Trust had a negative return of 5.2 percent.)
 Another fund with solid performance in the quarter -- ING Real Estate A, up 6.9 percent -- had many of the same holdings in its portfolio, though property categories played an important role in the stock choices of the fund manager, T. Ritson Ferguson, the chief investment officer at ING Clarion. ''You can't just buy all the blue chips,'' he said. ''Performance has been a lot about the property-type selection.'' 
 Mr. Ferguson says he invests in shopping mall operators, because they have longer-term leases, and in companies that own and operate health care facilities, because demand for them is generally impervious to the goings-on in the economy. Among his favorites are Omega Healthcare Investors and Nationwide Health Properties.
 At Omega Healthcare, ''management is pretty savvy,'' he said, and Nationwide Health Properties has ''a solid balance sheet and thoughtful new investments.''
 He was more circumspect about companies focused on hotels and on office buildings, especially those with a higher concentration in New York, because they may be directly affected by Wall Street's problems. 
 For Mr. Kraska, who is also the fund manager for the Seligman LaSalle Monthly Dividend Real Estate A fund, keeping the focus on income, or rather companies with both good management and healthy dividends, also paid off. The fund ended the quarter with a 3.3 percent return. ''We stay away from the home builders and the mortgage lenders,'' he said.
 Mr. Kraska's international fund, meanwhile, took a hit. That fund, Seligman LaSalle Global Real Estate A, had a loss of 8.2 percent for the quarter. 
 Mr. Gogerty of Morningstar says the steep drops seen overseas may eventually make some international markets attractive to bargain-hunting investors. ''London, I think, is one property area oversold,'' he said.
 And in this country? Mr. Gogerty was less sanguine. ''I think the days of 20-percent-plus returns enjoyed earlier in the decade are over for now,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Roosevelt Field Mall in Garden City, N.Y., is owned by the Simon Property Group, a large developer of malls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MELANIE FIDLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Burbank Medical Plaza in California, one of the holdings in Nationwide Health Properties' portfolio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATIONWIDE HEALTH PROPERTIES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); REAL ESTATE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); SELF STORAGE (70%); RETAILERS (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (58%); AMG DATA SERVICES (57%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (51%)

TICKER: SPG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



476 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: End Nears for Unloved Housing

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
 MONTGOMERY GARDENS, a six-tower public housing project built 58 years ago next to what was then the Jersey City Medical Center, has a date with demise.
 Like so many ''vertical concentrations of poverty,'' as the old projects have been termed by the federal housing agency that built them, the project has been deemed ready for wrecking (within the next two years) and re-creation (four developers have submitted proposals).
 With its old neighbor, the medical center, now morphing into a residential complex called the Beacon, the character of the area has already undergone a change. Two of the eight tall Art Deco buildings that once housed the hospital have been fully restored and are open as condominiums; the other six will be either condos or high-caliber rentals. 
 Meanwhile, Montgomery Gardens has survived all these years in a state of decay and distress. 
 ''Pssst -- don't go near Montgomery Gardens without your bulletproof vest,'' a blogger calling himself JC Man wrote last month in an online real-estate forum addressing safety concerns in the Beacon's neighborhood.
 Others have posted ''crime maps'' that show clusters of violent incidents in which the police intervened on surrounding streets. A drive down Cornelison Avenue, which runs along one side of the project, demonstrates why it has gained notoriety as a marketplace for prostitutes.
 ''Crime is always the top complaint of the residents,'' said Mayor Jerramiah T. Healy in a recent telephone interview. He noted that the same had been true in the vicinity of two other big public housing projects before one was taken down about 10 years ago and another was partially demolished more recently.
 Earlier this year, the Jersey City housing authority stopped renewing leases at the 549-unit Montgomery Street complex. Several weeks ago, a notice seeking demolition experts was sent out.
 Right now, said Maria Maio, the housing authority director, various proposals for redeveloping the six-acre site are being reviewed. ''With the support and participation of residents'' of the project, Ms. Maio said, ''a transformation will take place.'' (Residents have first priority as occupants of the planned new mixed-income units, as long as they still meet income qualifications.)
 Certainly, Jersey City as a whole is undergoing transformation. In each of the last four years, more construction permits for residential units were issued here than in any other community in the state, housing officials say. Thousands of Manhattan-style apartments have been created in the downtown area, attracting large numbers of young professionals; many decamped from Manhattan to take advantage of New Jersey prices.
 Developers have continued to extend the limits of downtown, moving inland with their projects, surrounding new light rail and PATH train stops with shiny new commuter havens.
 It was three years ago that the forces of change reached all the way into the area west of the Holland Tunnel, and the Manhattan-based developer MetroVest Equities began opening the first 300 condos at the Beacon.
 Now, MetroVest has put itself forward as a possible redeveloper for the Montgomery Gardens site. ''We feel we have a real vested interest in the area,'' said MetroVest's president, George Filopoulos (who set up a Christmas present giveaway for local schoolchildren at the Beacon last year, donning an elf hat while Mayor Healy played Santa Claus).
 Mr. Filopoulos said property values in the area had already been raised by his company's commitment to the Beacon -- where a total of 1,200 residential units are planned, in addition to restaurant and retail space to create a ''city within a city.'' That helps make it a ''real opportunity'' to rebuild the six acres next door, he added. 
 According to Ms. Maio, three other companies have also made proposals for the Montgomery Gardens site, with different approaches involving a mix of lower-priced and market-rate housing and retailing.
 Those applicants are Community Builders, a 40-year-old Boston-based firm, which describes itself as the largest nonprofit housing developer in the country; Community Investment Strategies of Bordentown, which has completed a number of age-restricted and affordable housing projects in New Jersey; and the Michaels Development Company of Marlton, a builder of both mixed-income and lower-cost housing. None of the three returned calls seeking comment.
 Ms. Maio said that all four proposals were being studied now, and that she hoped a decision could be made by the end of the year.
 Mr. Healy said in a separate interview that he was pleased to hear a deadline had been set, and was interested to learn that MetroVest was in the running. 
 Mr. Filopoulos said -- and the mayor later agreed -- that next to demolishing and replacing the Montgomery Gardens housing, the top priority for the entire neighborhood was bringing in a large grocery store.
 MetroVest's proposal calls for a ''superduper supermarket,'' Mr. Filopoulos said -- as large as possible, with plenty of parking so that all of Jersey City could potentially be served. 
 As Mr. Healy put it: ''We have a dearth of supermarkets. We have downtown, one in the east end of our city, but nothing in Journal Square,'' and nothing near the site of the Beacon. 
 Montgomery Gardens is accessible to the New Jersey Turnpike and is also near the Grove Street PATH station, where the number of residents has increased sharply with the recent addition of thousands of new residential units, he noted. 
 ''This area is going to have a great future,'' he predicted, ''because the truth is, it has got a great location in a lot of ways.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JERSEY CITY MORPHS: Montgomery Gardens, public housing that has been deemed deserving of demolition, frames one of the upscale Beacon's gleaming towers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NODAV NEUHAUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



477 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: For Immigrants, Checking to See If the Doctor Is In or Not

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: GREENWICH 

 BODY:
 TWO years ago, Dr. Katrina S. Firlik, a neurosurgeon at Greenwich Hospital, was called in on a case she had never seen before -- certainly not in moneyed Greenwich.
 A 25-year-old landscaping worker who had slipped into the United States illegally just three months before had been admitted with an excruciating headache. It turned out to be a symptom of a strain of tuberculosis meningitis, which Dr. Firlik said was rarely seen in the United States. Within weeks, the disease, resistant to antibiotics, had invaded his spinal fluid, creating an inflammatory mass that stretched from his neck to his lower back and was compressing his spinal cord. The man could no longer stand and was losing bladder control. 
 Dr. Firlik spent much of a Sunday digging out the mass, and the patient was hospitalized for another six weeks until the infection disappeared, finally leaving in a wheelchair, though he did eventually walk. The bill for his hospitalization alone totaled $200,000, some of which would have been covered by a limited provision for emergency care under the federal Medicaid program, but certainly not all. And Dr. Firlik said that she and other doctors who treated him essentially did so free.
 Although the case was unusual in its costs, Greenwich Hospital, like many other hospitals in the New York area, is increasingly finding itself providing uncompensated medical care to poor, uninsured and often illegal immigrants. 
 The number of illegal immigrants seeking emergency care at Greenwich has sharply increased since 2005 after the closing of United Hospital in the nearby Village of Port Chester, a community across the border in New York that has a high proportion of poor and working-class immigrants. In the year after United's closing, Greenwich's maternity load soared to 2,300 from 1,400. 
 Hospitals across New York State, New Jersey and Connecticut all report struggling with the costs of delivering emergency care and sometimes more to illegal immigrants and other uninsured patients, and many see it as their obligation. 
 ''We take care of a lot of immigrants here and we're proud of it because these people are going to be the future of our country,'' said Jim Foy, president of St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers, which admitted 16,700 patients last year. Mr. Foy estimated that his hospital loses between $8 million and $10 million a year because of what he called ''charity care,'' an unquantifiable share of which stems from immigrants. He argued that such costs were cheap in the long run because failing to treat sick patients in a timely fashion would only mean heftier bills later on if the ailments became chronic. 
 The Connecticut Hospital Association estimated its 29 hospitals spent $93.3 million in 2006 compared with $78 million four years before on uncompensated care, although officials did not attribute the huge increase to illegal immigrants. The federal Medicaid program permits coverage for illegal immigrants for emergency care but virtually no other services. 
 Greenwich, chartered 105 years ago by wealthy local residents worried about handling epidemics, is a well-appointed hospital, with a grand piano in its lobby, patient rooms that feature premium movies and wireless Internet and a terrace cafe with waiter service. It regularly finishes among the top 1 percent of hospitals on surveys of patient satisfaction. 
 Most of the 174-bed hospital is headquartered in two spanking new buildings financed by donations from the real estate dowager Leona Helmsley and the family of Thomas J. Watson Jr., the former I.B.M. chief executive. Greenwich residents have been exceedingly generous, showering the hospital with $140 million in the last 12 years. 
 With the closing of United, the demographics of the emergency room at Greenwich have changed in the last couple of years. 
 ''The waiting room has become a little more diverse,'' said Dr. J. Allen Britvan, an emergency room doctor. 
 Although Greenwich Hospital's emergency room doors are open and outpatient care is available to many immigrants through the Open Door Family Medical Center in Port Chester, Lindsay C. Farrell, Open Door's president and chief executive, said that there was still a major void in quality health care. She said that Greenwich, like many hospitals across America, does little to address the lack of available specialists like orthopedists, cardiologists and gastroenterologists willing to see low-income patients. In many urban centers, teaching hospitals operate specialist clinics so medical residents can learn their skills.
 Officials at Greenwich Hospital say they have worked hard to make the hospital accessible to immigrants. Natalia Blanco, 36, a Venezuelan immigrant, has joined the hospital staff as a medical translator. She not only helps patients talk with doctors and nurses, but also helps them apply for emergency Medicaid payments or work out repayment schedules. All along, she explains, applying for any assistance will not lead to inquiries into their immigration status.
 ''I'm a big advocate for the Spanish-speaking population,'' she said. ''Because of a lack of education, many do not know how the health care system here works.''
 The hospital has organized health fairs in Port Chester to teach residents about nutrition and prevention of diseases like diabetes, said Kathy Carley-Spanier, director of community health. It has held free blood pressure and prostrate screenings. 
 Christine Beechner, vice president for patient relations at Greenwich, said that when the hospital realized it would be taking in Port Chester's emergencies after United's closing, some people reacted disapprovingly in what Ms. Beechner called a ''we-they mentality.'' 
 But she said the hospital's chief executive, Frank A. Corvino, was emphatic with hospital staff members that ''we're a hospital and our mission is to care for those who come to our door.''
 ''He made it very clear it's not we-they,'' she said.
 For the most part, the emergency-room encounters between the wealthy and the indigent have been uneventful, Mrs. Blanco said. ''You get to see that helping hand more than you hear 'What are they doing here?' she said. ''I see more consideration than anything else.''
 Rosa Pillajo, a reserved woman of 49, came to the United States seven years ago from Ecuador on a visitor's visa and settled in Port Chester, and ever since United closed she has used Greenwich for emergencies. She suffered a miscarriage two years ago and was hospitalized for two days, a stay that was covered by her husband's insurance.
 In January of this year she suffered an ectopic pregnancy -- one outside the uterine wall -- that required emergency surgery. In conducting scans of her body, doctors discovered she had malignant nodules in her lungs. She has since been receiving chemotherapy weekly, with some doses requiring a night's hospitalization. This time her husband did not have insurance and Ms. Pillajo, who has worked as a housekeeper and beautician, has been applying for Medicaid, which generally does not cover cancer treatments, so the hospital is likely to absorb the cost of her chemotherapy.
 ''The doctors were excellent and always helped me,'' she said, with Mrs. Blanco translating, adding that the nurses were attentive and made sure she understood how to take her medication. She said the treatment contrasted with more callous treatment she has received at hospitals elsewhere.
 ''Everybody here has been very polite,'' she said. 
 Partly as a result of the influx of Port Chester residents, emergency room visits have jumped 85 percent in less than a decade. But the precise impact of Westchester residents on Greenwich Hospital's economics can be amorphous because Greenwich has also refashioned itself as a regional rather than a community hospital and has been recruiting patients and doctor affiliations. There are now 120 affiliated Westchester doctors compared with perhaps 10 a decade ago. Since 1999, the proportion of admissions from Westchester has climbed to 40 percent from 15 percent. 
 The Hispanic share of the patient population is now more than 8 percent, up from 5 percent a decade ago, though some of those are Greenwich residents. George G. Pawlush, vice president of public relations, said that the proportion of Medicaid revenues has doubled since 1999, though the total amounted to only $4.6 million, roughly 2 percent of operating revenues at a hospital that takes in $256 million.
 Medically, the influx of immigrants has rarely brought the kind of exotic case that landed in Dr. Firlik's lap. But Dr. Britvan, the emergency doctor, said that he noticed an increase in laborer injuries since many Port Chester residents were laborers working in landscaping and construction. As a result of these cases, Dr. Britvan said with a smile, doctors have been improving their foreign language skills.
 ''Most of our doctors speak medical Spanish,'' he said. ''We learn it by necessity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON DUTY: Dr. Jan Zislis, left, in the work station of the Greenwich Hospital's emergency department. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
EXOTIC CASE: Dr. Katrina S. Firlik, a neurosurgeon at Greenwich Hospital who treated an illegal immigrant in a case she had never seen before.
 ACCESSIBLE Top, Jodie Boldrighini, left, a nurse, teaches Rosa Pillajo, center, how to use a CyraCom phone, used in interpreting. At right, Natalia Blanco, medical interpreter at Greenwich Hospital. Above left, close-up of the CyraCom phone. The Carl and Dorothy Bennett Community Garden at Greenwich Hospital. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); MENINGITIS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); TUBERCULOSIS (71%); CHARITIES (65%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



478 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE FOOD ISSUE; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 3087 words

HEADLINE: Why Tip?

BYLINE: By PAUL WACHTER. 
Paul Wachter wrote about the mixed-martial-arts fighter Shad Smith for the magazine in March.

 BODY:
ONE DAY IN November 2006, Jay Porter, the owner of a small restaurant in San Diego called the Linkery, scheduled a staff meeting. Less than two years old, the casual farm-to-table restaurant in the rapidly gentrifying neighborhood of North Park had already won praise from national magazines. Nonetheless, Porter was troubled. The staff was squabbling, mainly over money: waiters were angling for better shifts and tables, and the kitchen workers didn't feel they were getting a fair share of the profits. The bickering was typical of the restaurant business, but Porter, who is 38, had no previous industry experience. He had been a computer consultant, one who made good money but derived few other satisfactions from his job.
 When he opened the Linkery, Porter said, he hoped his employees would become as emotionally invested in the venture as he was, sharing a sense of purpose and joy in their work. Now that vision seemed hopelessly naive. ''Here I was, winging it as an owner, running into these frustrations, which all boiled down to money,'' Porter told me this summer. ''I felt there had to be a better way.'' After much thought, Porter arrived at a possible solution, which he presented to his staff on that November afternoon. ''How do you feel about eliminating tipping?'' he asked them. 
 Porter's question strikes at the very heart of the American dining experience. Each year, according to the economist Ofer Azar, diners hand over some $42 billion in tips at the nation's full-service restaurants, which employ 2.6 million waiters, most of whom rely on tips for the bulk of their incomes. While anxieties surrounding tipping abound -- Is 15 percent enough? 20? And who is this ''captain'' on the bill? -- studies show that Americans overwhelmingly prefer this discretionary system to a set service charge, which is common in Europe and many other parts of the world. Indeed, at the few restaurants in this country that have adopted a fixed gratuity, diners often leave additional tips.
 Tipping, its defenders say, improves service by rewarding good waiters and punishing bad ones. But that's not what Porter saw when he looked out on his dining floor. In his brief experience, working for tips encouraged selfishness rather than teamwork. Moreover, good service was not always rewarded with a big tip, nor bad service with a poor one. ''No other profession works like this,'' Porter told me, ''and I don't see why the restaurant business should either.'' At his restaurant, Porter and his staff agreed, it no longer would. The Linkery would be more than just a restaurant; it would become perhaps the nation's only anti-tipping laboratory.
 THERE WAS A time, not so long ago in this country, when the Linkery's no-tipping policy would not have stood out. Tipping was imported from Europe, and when it arrived in America, it met with impassioned and organized opposition. While the precise origin of tipping is uncertain, it is commonly traced to Tudor England, according to ''Tipping,'' Kerry Segrave's history of the custom. By the 17th century, it was expected that overnight guests to private homes would provide sums of money, known as vails, to the host's servants. Soon after, customers began tipping in London coffeehouses and other commercial establishments. One frequented by Samuel Johnson had a bowl printed with the words ''To Insure Promptitude,'' and some speculate that ''tip'' is an acronym for this phrase.
 Tipping began as an aristocratic practice, a sprinkle of change for social inferiors, and it quickly spread among the upper classes of Europe. Yet even at its outset, tipping engendered feelings of anxiety and resentment. In the mid-1800s, after leaving the Bell Inn of Gloucester, the Scottish writer Thomas Carlyle complained: ''The dirty scrub of a waiter grumbled about his allowance, which I reckoned liberal. I added sixpence to it, and [he] produced a bow which I was near rewarding with a kick.''
 After the Civil War, wealthy Americans began traveling to Europe in significant numbers, and they brought the tip home with them to demonstrate their worldliness. But the United States, unlike Europe, had no aristocratic tradition, and as tipping spread -- like ''evil insects and weeds,'' The New York Times claimed in 1897 -- many thought it was antithetical to American democratic ideals. ''Tipping, and the aristocratic idea it exemplifies, is what we left Europe to escape,'' William Scott wrote in his 1916 anti-tipping screed, ''The Itching Palm.'' One periodical of the same era deplored tipping for creating a class of workers who relied on ''fawning for favors.''
 Opposition to tipping was not limited to the media. In 1904, the Anti-Tipping Society of America sprang up in Georgia, and its 100,000 members signed pledges not to tip anyone for a year. Leagues of traveling salesmen opposed the tip, as did most labor unions. In 1909, Washington became the first of six states to pass an anti-tipping law. But tipping persisted. The new laws rarely were enforced, and when they were, they did not hold up in court. By 1926, every anti-tipping law had been repealed.
 Ultimately, even those who in principle opposed the practice found themselves unable to stiff their servers. Samuel Gompers, who was president of the American Federation of Labor and a leading figure of the anti-tipping movement, admitted that he ''followed the usual custom of giving tips.''
 Meanwhile, Europe was rethinking its devotion to the custom. The 1943 Catering Wages Act in Britain established a minimum wage for service employees that helped decrease their reliance on tips. And in 1955, France passed a law requiring its restaurants to add a service charge (''service compris'') to each bill, a practice that has become the norm for most of the continent. By then, the anti-tipping movement had all but vanished in the United States. Its last great champion, the social scientist Leo Crespi, died in July of this year. Sixty years earlier, Crespi published a scholarly study of tipping and called for the formation of a National Anti-Tipping League of diners. But the call went unanswered -- even by Crespi, who never dined out.
 WORD OF THE Linkery's anti-tipping policy quickly spread through the local restaurant community. Ken Cassinelli, who owns a nearby Italian restaurant, was appalled. It had taken him 30 years of waiting on tables to set aside enough money to open Apertivo. Tips built his restaurant. ''The Linkery is a big sham,'' he told me. ''All Porter is doing is taking money away from his waiters.''
 Notwithstanding the vitriol, Cassinelli may have a point.
 Typically, waiters receive an hourly wage -- as little as $2.13 in some states, though California law mandates at least $8 -- plus tips, some of which they may pass on, or ''tip out,'' to their support staff. The laws of California and several other states prohibit redirecting tips to restaurant workers who traditionally don't receive them -- owners, managers and members of the kitchen staff. (Earlier this year, a California judge ordered Starbucks to pay its baristas $105 million for tips the company diverted to supervisors.) But a service charge is free of such constraints. It's also fully taxed, while waiters, on average, fail to report what the I.R.S. says is at least 40 percent of their tips.
 Porter considered raising the prices of each item on the menu and simply increasing the wages of his employees. But that would have penalized the restaurant's many takeout diners. Also, he figured many potential diners would look at the prices and -- not factoring in what they spend on tips -- compare them unfavorably with those of his competitors. So Porter instead proposed a service fee of 18 percent, to be pooled and split roughly 3 to 1 between the restaurant's front of the house and its kitchen. In his pitch to his staff, he employed the same arguments Alice Waters had nearly two decades before. The owner of arguably the nation's most celebrated restaurant -- Chez Panisse in Berkeley -- Waters wrote her board: ''At our restaurant the quality of the food and the skill and taste of the cooks are at least as central to our success as the quality of the service. Unfortunately, traditional tipping has created great disparities in earning between the serving staff and the cooking and support staff.'' By introducing a service charge -- currently 17 percent -- Waters was able to increase income to the kitchen.
 A few other high-end restaurants have followed Waters's example, including Charlie Trotter's in Chicago, the French Laundry in Napa Valley and Per Se in Manhattan (the latter two are owned by Thomas Keller). None of these restaurants, however, including Waters's, forbid additional tips. ''Some people still tip, and the waiters get to keep that money,'' said Mike Kossa-Rienzi, general manager of Chez Panisse.
 But Porter, like the anti-tippers of yore, was persuaded tipping itself was pernicious. ''If you have a fixed gratuity, but people are still tipping, then you're back to Square 1 in terms of the money dynamic,'' he says. 
 If he could, he would have raised everyone's wages, but there wasn't enough revenue. The restaurant was already paying 65 percent of its employees' health-insurance premiums, and Porter was working on a scheme to give long-term employees ownership stakes in the business. Still, he worried that his staff might not be receptive to his proposal. Michael McGuan, Porter's general manager, expected at least half of the restaurant's eight servers to quit. But only one did, and Porter has had little trouble hiring additional waiters. Cassinelli says that's because most of them, like their boss, have little restaurant experience. While that's true of a few of Porter's hires, most of the Linkery's servers have waited on tables for years. They have simply drawn different lessons from their experiences.
 Cassinelli prided himself on earning big tips. ''I could always upsell my tables' liquor and desserts,'' he said, using the industry term for swaying diners to order more than they normally would, driving up the bill and hence the tip. There are other tricks at waiters' disposal. Studies demonstrate that waiters can increase their tips by introducing themselves by name, squatting alongside tables, touching diners and drawing smiley faces on the backs of checks. While Cassinelli isn't necessarily an advocate of such ploys, he says that waiters only excel at their jobs when they have the proper economic incentives.
 But Chelsea Boyd told me that eliminating tipping had made her work as a waiter at the Linkery more meaningful than any other restaurant job she has had in the previous 10 years. ''For the first time, I get to concentrate on the job, and I'm looking at the guests without seeing dollar signs or worried about what anyone else is making,'' she says. Under the old system, waiters earned between $25 and $35 an hour, much of which was untaxed. ''Now, waiters make about $25 an hour, which is fully taxed,'' Boyd says.
 Renee Lorion, a former waitress at the Linkery who now works in publishing in New York, liked the new anti-tipping policy too. ''As servers, we all took a pay cut, but we knew it was for the general health of the restaurant,'' she told me. ''What made it work is that Jay was very transparent about the restaurant's finances.''
 Obviously, the kitchen appreciates the new policy. ''Earning three or four extra bucks an hour makes a difference,'' Matthew Somerville, a cook, says. ''In most restaurants, there's not a close relationship between the front and the kitchen. But here you don't have that tension, where waiters are trying to accommodate customers' special requests, while the cooks doing the extra work don't see any of the tips.''
 Today, Porter's employees appear almost as fervent in their opposition to tipping as their boss. But winning over his staff was only half the battle.
 WHEN I CANVASSED restaurant owners across the country, most said that customer opposition precludes any significant move away from tipping. ''I like the idea of a service charge, and I've thought about having one,'' says Hakan Swahn, the owner of Aquavit, a restaurant in New York that serves Scandinavian cuisine and has branches in Stockholm and Tokyo. Because tipping is negligible in Sweden and frowned upon in Japan, at these outposts the cost of service is factored into the bill. But that's not possible at his Manhattan flagship, Swahn told me. ''The customers would protest.''
 Eighty percent of Americans say they prefer tipping to paying a service fee, according to Zagat Survey. They do so, Leo Crespi's surveys first demonstrated, primarily because they believe tipping provides an incentive for good service. But there is little correlation, in fact-- less than 2 percent, according to Michael Lynn, a Cornell professor of consumer behavior and marketing. 
 Economists have struggled to explain tipping. Why tip at all, since the bill is presented at the end of a meal and can't retroactively improve service? And certainly there's no reason to tip at a restaurant you will never revisit. ''Using a rational and selfish agent to explain tipping, one reaches the conclusion that the agent should never tip if he does not intend to visit the establishment again,'' Ofer Azar, the economist, writes. ''Yet this prediction is sharply violated in practice: most people tip even when they do not intend to ever come back.''
 The single most important factor in determining the amount of a tip is the size of the bill. Diners generally tip the same percentage no matter the quality of the service and no matter the setting. They do so, Lynn says, largely because it's expected and diners fear social disapproval. ''It is embarrassing to have another person wait on you,'' the psychologist Ernest Dichter told a magazine reporter in 1960. ''The need to pay, psychologically, for the guilt involved in the unequal relationship is so strong that very few are able to ignore it.'' Ego needs also play a part, especially when it comes to overtipping, according to the Israeli social psychologist Boas Shamir.
 These psychological factors also go a long way in explaining the steady rise of the average tip in the United States from 10 percent in the early 20th century to 18.9 percent today, with little regional variation. ''To overtip is to appear an ass: to undertip is to appear an even greater ass,'' Benjamin Franklin reportedly noted during his stint in Paris, and his quandary continues to vex American diners.
 But not at the Linkery. Porter and his staff have found that most diners accept the no-tipping policy, which is explained on the restaurant's Web site and menu as well as upon the presentation of the check. This doesn't surprise Lynn, who says he believes consumer preferences for tipping are not as strong as Zagat Survey suggests. In a less-cited 1987 Gallup telephone survey, only 34 percent of American respondents said a 15-to-18 percent service charge was unreasonable. In Lynn's own 2004 Internet survey, 44 percent of American respondents said they would prefer to have waiters paid higher wages instead of tips, while only 22 percent disagreed. ''Given that consumers' preferences appear to be weak and are unlikely to have strong effects on patronage behavior, they need not dictate tipping policies,'' Lynn concludes.
 That has already proved true at the antipodes of American dining -- the fast-food restaurant and the private club -- where tipping is not usually allowed. And with few objections, many full-service restaurants include service charges for groups of six or more diners. They do so because tip size is inversely proportional to the number of diners. One 1973 study at an Ohio restaurant revealed that individual diners tipped 19 percent on average, while groups of six left 13.5 percent. ''[T]o the extent that many people contribute to a check, the responsibility of each to the waiter may be psychologically divided among the people present,'' the researchers concluded.
 Despite such precedents, every so often diners at the Linkery take offense. ''I'll go over to the table and ask if there is a problem with the service,'' McGuan, the general manager, says. ''If there is, then I offer to remove the service charge. Almost always, the customers' issue isn't about the service but about not being able to handle their loss of control.''
 Porter says that he doesn't mind losing these diners. But most restaurant owners are not as nonchalant. Last June, after the Linkery moved, its old space was taken over by the Sea Rocket Bistro, which focuses on local sustainable seafood. Management thought it would be a good idea to retain Porter's no-tipping policy, since the restaurant was courting the same customers. But that proved difficult. ''It became a strain to explain the policy to first-time customers,'' Elena Rivellino, the Bistro's general manager, says. ''We had some people complain that an 18 percent gratuity was too high, and others said they'd like to tip more.''
 In his one concession to big tippers, Porter offers them the option of donating money to charity. The Linkery's charity of the month is printed on the menu, and in two years more than $10,000 has been raised for various causes. ''But it's funny what usually happens when a diner asks why they can't tip more,'' McGuan says. ''We tell them we're comfortable with what we charge for service, and they're free to donate to our charity of the month. Most don't.''
 Rivellino said that as a new restaurant struggling to fill its tables, the Sea Rocket Bistro couldn't afford to turn down additional revenue, especially if doing so might offend diners. The restaurant dropped its service charge in a matter of weeks.
 OVER DINNER ONE night, Porter told me that he didn't expect his war against tipping to spread beyond his restaurant. ''You might be able to get rid of tipping if you raised the minimum wage to $15 an hour, but that's not going to happen anytime soon,'' he said. We were sitting in the back garden of one of Porter's favorite San Diego restaurants, Starlite, and I found myself nodding in agreement. Tipping had bested greater foes than Porter.
 And yet Porter never tires of defending his position. ''At the end of a nice meal, the last thing anyone wants to do is think about math and social mores,'' he said. Again, I nodded. But at dinner's end, when the waiter returned with my credit card, I did some quick mental arithmetic and left 20 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(MM57)
 ALL FOR ONE, ONE FOR ALL: At the Linkery, the staff, surprisingly, has embraced the no-tipping policy more readily than some of the restaurant's customers.(MM59)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF MINTON) DRAWING (DRAWING BY HAPPYPETS (MM58 - MM60) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (89%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



479 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Short-Sales Ban Caused Some Bears to Growl

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
BEAR funds felt the pinch of the short-selling ban that the Securities and Exchange Commission declared near the end of the third quarter.
 On Sept. 19, a few days after Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy, intensifying a global financial crisis, the agency temporarily banned short-selling for a number of financial stocks; the S.E.C. lifted the ban last week.
 Initially, the rule prohibited short sales on 799 stocks, but that list quickly grew to more than 900. And critics contended that many of these -- like General Motors and the Zale Corporation, the jewelry retailer, which both finance customer purchases -- stretched the definition of financial companies. 
 ''What they are doing is destroying liquidity in a market that desperately needs liquidity,'' said Steven C. Leuthold, who manages the Grizzly Short fund and was a critic of the S.E.C. rule. But he said he was not surprised by the S.E.C.'s temporary ban. ''No one likes to see people making money when most people are losing money -- why, it's un-American,'' he said.
 Bear funds come in two distinct breeds. The Grizzly fund is the kind that shorts individual stocks, which involves selling borrowed shares that the manager hopes to buy back later at a lower price. Its main competitor in this category is the Prudent Bear fund.
 Then there are the inverse index funds. These can be either traditional mutual funds or exchange-traded funds, but they share the goal of returning the exact opposite -- or in some cases, twice the opposite -- of a particular index. The two largest managers of inverse index funds are Rydex Investments, based in Rockville, Md., and ProFunds, based in Bethesda, Md.
 After the S.E.C. announced the short-selling ban on financial stocks, both Rydex and ProFunds stopped accepting new investments, even from existing shareholders, into their inverse financial-sector E.T.F.'s.
 ''We thought it was the prudent thing to do,'' said Michael L. Sapir, the chairman and chief executive of ProFunds. Pre-existing shares of these E.T.F.'s continued to trade during the ban. After it was lifted, both companies began accepting new money, and creating new units, in their financial sector E.T.F.s.
 During the ban, neither company stopped taking new money into its other inverse E.T.F.'s or mutual funds, although many indexes on which they are based contain some financial stocks.
 Ryan Harder, a senior portfolio manager at Rydex, who is in charge of both the inverse mutual funds and E.T.F.'s., said the S.E.C. ban did not affect the company's other inverse funds because they do not usually short individual stocks. Instead, they use a combination of futures and swaps that aim to return the opposite of an entire index.
 Unlike the inverse mutual funds and E.T.F.'s -- which are often mirror images of plain-vanilla index funds offered by the same company -- the main actively managed funds, Grizzly Short and Prudent Bear, are run by investors who have long expressed bearish opinions on the markets and the economy.
 The S.E.C.'s temporary ban did not alter the funds' existing short positions, and managers for both of these funds said they had shorted some of the stocks on the list before the ban. But the S.E.C.'s move prevented them from adding to those positions at the end of the third quarter -- just as their views had came into vogue.
 David W. Tice, the founder and co-manager of Prudent Bear, said he had not overweighted financial stocks before the ban because the shares had been too volatile of late. ''We like to be in stocks that are underperforming, but volatility is our enemy,'' he said. ''We want them to go down and stay down.''
 Federated Investors, an asset manager based in Pittsburgh, recently agreed to buy this fund from his firm, David W. Tice & Associates, which is based in Milwaukee. The deal is expected to close by year-end, and the fund will be renamed Federated Prudent Bear. Mr. Tice will become the chief portfolio strategist for Federated; and Doug Noland, a co-manager, will be more responsible for the day-to-day portfolio management.
 Mr. Noland said his preference was to short individual stocks, although the fund will also buy exchange-traded futures that short market indexes. He said they did not use private contracts, like swaps, with other financial companies because of the counterparty risk.
 Mr. Leuthold said that around 25 percent of the Grizzly fund had been short financial stocks before the S.E.C. ban. Ordinarily, he said, they would try to keep sectors within 20 percent of the portfolio. But in the through-the-looking-glass world of bear funds, when stocks fall, they become a bigger slice of the pie.
 The Grizzly fund returned 8.9 percent in the third quarter, while Prudent Bear returned 0.6 percent, according to Morningstar.
 But in a sign of just how volatile this sort of investing can be, the inverse financial sector E.T.F.'s plunged on Sept. 19, the day that the S.E.C. announced the temporary ban on short-selling financial stocks.
 All three of these E.T.F.'s lost money in the third quarter. The ProShares Short Financials E.T.F. fell 14.8 percent, while the ProShares UltraShort Financials E.T.F. lost 36.6 percent. The Rydex Inverse 2x S.& P. Select Sector Financial E.T.F. fell 34.4 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steven C. Leuthold, manager of the Grizzly Short fund, was a critic of the ban on short-selling but was not surprised when it was temporarily imposed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLEN BRISSON-SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 David W. Tice, founder of the Prudent Bear fund, said he had not overweighted financial stocks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK GRAHAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); INDEX FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); JEWELRY STORES (73%)

COMPANY: ZALE CORP (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%)

TICKER: ZLC (NYSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (83%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



480 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Alison Williams, Saleem Mukhtar

 BODY:
Alison Ann Williams and Saleem Mukhtar were married Saturday in the Lady Chapel of St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. Msgr. Robert T. Ritchie, the rector of the cathedral, performed the ceremony. 
 Mrs. Mukhtar, 32, is the personal assistant to the deputy director of the United Nations Development Program Bureau for Crisis Prevention and Recovery in New York. She graduated from Denison University and received a master's degree in international conflict analysis from the London Center of International Relations. 
 She is a daughter of Antonia and Patrick Williams of Warren, Pa. Her father is a retail analyst at the United Refining Company, an oil refinery in Warren. Her mother is a social worker in Warren in the children and youth division of the Pennsylvania Department of Health and Human Services.
 Until August, Mr. Mukhtar, 34, was an assistant for arbitrage strategy at Taconic Capital Advisors, a hedge fund in New York. He graduated from Carnegie Mellon University and received a doctorate in computation and neural systems from the California Institute of Technology. 
 He is a son of Parveen and Khalid Mukhtar of Aligarh, India. His mother owns Scylax Online, an online purveyor of South Asian and Southeast Asian clothing, jewelry, textiles and other handicrafts. His father owns Buckeye Machines, a designer and manufacturer of custom metal-cutting machinery in Aligarh.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID CROSS PHOTOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); MACHINE TOOLS (70%); TEXTILES (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%)

COMPANY: UNITED REFINING CO (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (58%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (75%); INDIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



481 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Fan Exits Wall Street, and the Rays Profit

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 

 BODY:
The man in the lightly checked sport shirt and khakis pounded on the flat surface before him and screamed, ''Noooo!'' He might as well have still been on Wall Street, at a conference table at his old haunt, Goldman Sachs. Not quite. Jed Lowrie had just hit a sacrifice fly.
 ''Too good of a pitch 0 and 2!'' the man, Stuart Sternberg, wailed over the din. ''You get him, you get out of it.'' 
 Sternberg, the Tampa Bay Rays' principal owner, finally sat down and leaned his forearms on his team's dugout roof and finished watching his Rays lose, 2-0, to the Boston Red Sox on Friday night in the first game of the American League Championship Series. He cheered and high-fived and carped like the baseball nut he has been since growing up in the Canarsie section of Brooklyn, rooting for the Los Angeles Dodgers and abhorring the Yankees. Only rather than owning the Topps baseball cards, he owns the team.
 Sternberg, who still lives in Harrison, N.Y., in Westchester County, and retains his Mets season tickets, was so knowledgeable about baseball after leaving Goldman in 2002 that his first reaction to perhaps buying the then-Devil Rays was, he said, ''Ewwww.'' But the Rays have enjoyed one of the most shocking turnarounds in baseball history, going from laughingstock to one of the finest collections of talent in the A.L. Sternberg's investment is also looking fantastic, in large part because owning the Rays also means owning one-thirtieth of Major League Baseball's Internet and television cash cows.
 Yet not all is perfect at Tropicana Field -- far from it. As he sat right behind the Rays' dugout Friday night, with a capacity crowd of 35,000 pulsing around him, Sternberg acknowledged that the sustainability of major league baseball in this area and stadium was far from proven.
 ''I really won't have the answer to that until next June and September -- next year by April, maybe,'' said Sternberg, 49. ''We'll see what we sell in season packages and in preseason sales. Then you've got the economy as a part of it. It's got to flow down from the businesses.''
 ''Yeah! Whoo!'' he interrupted himself, as Boston's Jacoby Ellsbury popped out to end the fifth.
 He continued, ''After all is said and done, to operate here, we have to have sponsors, and have season-ticket holders, and have TV revenue, to have any chance of this thing working.''
 It is currently working better than most could have expected. The Rays won 97 games. About $20 million in improvements to Tropicana Field have elevated the stadium to domicile from dump. Although several thousand seats have remained covered and unsold in these playoffs, partly because the team felt that upper-deck restroom and concession areas would only frustrate capacity crowds, Sternberg said that the team could actually turn a profit this year if it reaches the World Series.
 Then again, it is dangerous to judge the market at its peak. Negotiations to build a stadium close to the St. Petersburg waterfront have stalled, and fans across the bridge in Tampa (many of whom are Yankees fans) have not shown a decided desire to adopt the Rays.
 Attendance rose during 2008's incredible regular season, but to only 22,370 a game, from 17,131. Even though the Rays were leading a pennant race, their three-game series against Yankees in September drew 2,000 fewer fans than last year's Yankees-Rays series -- suggesting that the market may prefer that the Yankees contend, not the upstart Rays.
 ''It's not like we went over to the other side,'' said Sternberg, whose Rays will continue to receive about $20 million to $30 million through M.L.B.'s revenue-sharing system. ''It's freakish what is happening right now. The thing can vaporize in a moment.''
 For now, Sternberg can rejoice in vaporizing the Yankees' string of postseason appearances. He grew up among older boys in Canarsie who had but one rule: ''Dodgers, yay; Yankees, boo.'' Marc Gold, one of those neighbors whom Sternberg invited to Friday's game, recalled: ''Little Stu learned well. For us, life was the Dodgers and Sandy Koufax.''
 So much so that even as Sternberg grew up to become a Wall Street trader and ultimately a partner at Goldman Sachs -- he cashed out in 2002 for a reported $400 million -- he retained those baseball ties. Sternberg named one son Sandy, and his e-mail address includes Koufax's uniform number, 32.
 Andrew Friedman, the Rays' general manager, said that Sternberg struck the right balance between fan and boss. With Sternberg in New York most of the time, decisions are left to those hired to make them, he said, and Sternberg chimes in only when his authority and business know-how are needed.
 ''During a game, he'll text me on how in the world we could have made that bunt attempt,'' Friedman said, smiling. ''But he can step back and handle things with a serious, longterm perspective.''
 Even while his Rays have been the talk of baseball, Sternberg said that the last week was the first that he had actually missed working on Wall Street.
 ''I like when things are messy,'' he said. From stock market to small market, Sternberg knows that the mess called baseball in Tampa Bay may not be cleaned up yet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stuart Sternberg's first reaction to perhaps buying the then-Devil Rays was, he said, ''Ewwww.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENC/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (75%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (82%); BOSTON RED SOX (56%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



482 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Catholic Voters and the Teachings of the Church

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Fight Among Catholics Over Which Party Best Reflects Church Teachings'' (news article, Oct. 5):
 Here we go again! It must be October in a presidential election year and the Democratic candidates must be poised to win: time for pastoral letters from some Roman Catholic bishops urging rejection by me and my co-religionists of candidates (read: Democrats) who are not in lock step with the church's teachings on abortion.
 As a practicing Catholic, I would find these directives more credible if they also admonished Catholic voters to reject candidates who endorse or condone capital punishment, that other form of state-sponsored homicide. 
 Until then, I will continue to dismiss these quadrennial broadsides as nothing more than the partisan political handouts of right-wing clerics. 
 John A. Rudy Cooperstown, N.Y., Oct. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 A few weeks ago, the newspaper of my Catholic archdiocese published a map highlighting the many countries in Europe where abortion was legal, implying the state of immorality in the West.
 What the map failed to illustrate was that the abortion rates in many of those European countries were among the lowest in the world, much lower than in many countries where abortion is illegal.
 It remains a question whether a country that, through legislation, makes a collective statement that abortion is wrong is more moral than a country willing to pay for social and economic policies that allow more individuals to make life-affirming decisions and avoid abortion.
 After 35 years of legal abortion in the United States, Republicans have yet to deliver on their repeated promises to end the practice.
 Given the dubious nature of political rhetoric and the fact that neither political party provides a comprehensive approach to ending abortion in the United States, the Catholic Church would do well to stick to its moral teaching and stay out of partisan politics. 
 Frank Z. Riely Jr. Floyds Knobs, Ind., Oct. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Catholics ought to ask themselves whether the Republican Party leadership has genuine interest in stopping abortion or if they are using it as a no-cost issue to find constituents to back their broader pro-business agenda.
 The Republicans controlled Congress and the presidency for most of this decade, and had they really wanted to outlaw abortion they had plenty of opportunity to do it. Why haven't they?
 Is it because resolution of the abortion issue in their favor would de-energize a crucial constituency? 
 Steve Gardner San Diego, Oct. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Your article refers to the 2007 statement from the United States bishops explicitly condoning a vote for a candidate who supports abortion rights if the vote is cast for other ''grave'' reasons. This official statement, ''Forming Consciences for Faithful Citizenship,'' also states, concerning abortion: ''Sometimes morally flawed laws already exist. In this situation, the process of framing legislation to protect life is subject to prudential judgment and 'the art of the possible.' '' 
 Apparently some Catholic bishops are ignoring the letter, which also says, ''We bishops do not intend to tell Catholics for whom or against whom to vote.'' 
 Terri MacKenzie Chicago, Oct. 5, 2008
 The writer is a nun.
 To the Editor:
 Bishop Joseph Martino of Scranton, Pa., is that most dangerous type of religious leader: one who thinks very narrowly and then tries to impose that narrowmindedness on those over whom he has authority. Your article notes that he ''has ordered every priest in the diocese to read a letter warning that voting for a supporter of abortion rights amounts to endorsing 'homicide.' ''
 Life is so much more than fetal development. Catholic moral and social teaching is so much richer and broader than same-sex marriage or the other ''non-negotiables.'' The late and sorely missed Cardinal Joseph Bernardin of Chicago urged us to consider the entire ''seamless garment of life,'' and not just any single point along the continuum from womb to tomb.
 And the American bishops themselves, in their guide to faithful citizenship, acknowledge the primacy of the well-formed human conscience. Like all Americans, Catholic voters have the right -- and the duty -- to vote for the candidate who they believe best reflects their values based on the preponderance of issues, whether or not this is the candidate their bishop has decided is ''pro-life.''
 Marie Conn Hatboro, Pa., Oct. 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); ABORTION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); BOOK PUBLISHING (67%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



483 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: For Immigrants, Checking to See if the Doctor Is In

BYLINE: By JOE BERGER

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn. 

 BODY:
 TWO years ago, Dr. Katrina S. Firlik, a neurosurgeon at Greenwich Hospital, was called in on a case she had never seen before -- certainly not in moneyed Greenwich.
 A 25-year-old landscaping worker who had slipped into the United States illegally just three months before had been admitted with an excruciating headache. It turned out to be a symptom of a strain of tuberculosis meningitis, which Dr. Firlik said was rarely seen in the United States. Within weeks, the disease, resistant to antibiotics, had invaded his spinal fluid, creating an inflammatory mass that stretched from his neck to his lower back and was compressing his spinal cord. The man could no longer stand and was losing bladder control. 
 Dr. Firlik spent much of a Sunday digging out the mass, and the patient was hospitalized for another six weeks until the infection disappeared, finally leaving in a wheelchair, though he did eventually walk. The bill for his hospitalization alone totaled $200,000, some of which would have been covered by a limited provision for emergency care under the federal Medicaid program, but certainly not all. And Dr. Firlik said that she and other doctors who treated him essentially did so free.
 Although the case was unusual in its costs, Greenwich Hospital, like many other hospitals in the New York area, is increasingly finding itself providing uncompensated medical care to poor, uninsured and often illegal immigrants. 
 The number of illegal immigrants seeking emergency care at Greenwich has sharply increased since 2005 after the closing of United Hospital in the nearby Village of Port Chester, a community across the border in New York that has a high proportion of poor and working-class immigrants. In the year after United's closing, Greenwich's maternity load soared to 2,300 from 1,400. 
 Hospitals across New York State, New Jersey and Connecticut all report struggling with the costs of delivering emergency care and sometimes more to illegal immigrants and other uninsured patients, and many see it as their obligation. 
 ''We take care of a lot of immigrants here and we're proud of it because these people are going to be the future of our country,'' said Jim Foy, president of St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers, which admitted 16,700 patients last year. Mr. Foy estimated that his hospital loses between $8 million and $10 million a year because of what he called ''charity care,'' an unquantifiable share of which stems from immigrants. He argued that such costs were cheap in the long run because failing to treat sick patients in a timely fashion would only mean heftier bills later on if the ailments became chronic. 
 The Connecticut Hospital Association estimated its 29 hospitals spent $93.3 million in 2006 compared with $78 million four years before on uncompensated care, although officials did not attribute the huge increase to illegal immigrants. The federal Medicaid program permits coverage for illegal immigrants for emergency care but virtually no other services. 
 Greenwich, chartered 105 years ago by wealthy local residents worried about handling epidemics, is a well-appointed hospital, with a grand piano in its lobby, patient rooms that feature premium movies and wireless Internet and a terrace cafe with waiter service. It regularly finishes among the top 1 percent of hospitals on surveys of patient satisfaction. 
 Most of the 174-bed hospital is headquartered in two spanking new buildings financed by donations from the real estate dowager Leona Helmsley and the family of Thomas J. Watson Jr., the former I.B.M. chief executive. Greenwich residents have been exceedingly generous, showering the hospital with $140 million in the last 12 years. 
 With the closing of United, the demographics of the emergency room at Greenwich have changed in the last couple of years. 
 ''The waiting room has become a little more diverse,'' said Dr. J. Allen Britvan, an emergency room doctor. 
 Although Greenwich Hospital's emergency room doors are open and outpatient care is available to many immigrants through the Open Door Family Medical Center in Port Chester, Lindsay C. Farrell, Open Door's president and chief executive, said that there was still a major void in quality health care. She said that Greenwich, like many hospitals across America, does little to address the lack of available specialists like orthopedists, cardiologists and gastroenterologists willing to see low-income patients. In many urban centers, teaching hospitals operate specialist clinics so medical residents can learn their skills.
 Officials at Greenwich Hospital say they have worked hard to make the hospital accessible to immigrants. Natalia Blanco, 36, a Venezuelan immigrant, has joined the hospital staff as a medical translator. She not only helps patients talk with doctors and nurses, but also helps them apply for emergency Medicaid payments or work out repayment schedules. All along, she explains, applying for any assistance will not lead to inquiries into their immigration status.
 ''I'm a big advocate for the Spanish-speaking population,'' she said. ''Because of a lack of education, many do not know how the health care system here works.''
 The hospital has organized health fairs in Port Chester to teach residents about nutrition and prevention of diseases like diabetes, said Kathy Carley-Spanier, director of community health. It has held free blood pressure and prostrate screenings. 
 Christine Beechner, vice president for patient relations at Greenwich, said that when the hospital realized it would be taking in Port Chester's emergencies after United's closing, some people reacted disapprovingly in what Ms. Beechner called a ''we-they mentality.'' 
 But she said the hospital's chief executive, Frank A. Corvino, was emphatic with hospital staff members that ''we're a hospital and our mission is to care for those who come to our door.''
 ''He made it very clear it's not we-they,'' she said.
 For the most part, the emergency-room encounters between the wealthy and the indigent have been uneventful, Mrs. Blanco said. ''You get to see that helping hand more than you hear 'What are they doing here?' she said. ''I see more consideration than anything else.''
 Rosa Pillajo, a reserved woman of 49, came to the United States seven years ago from Ecuador on a visitor's visa and settled in Port Chester, and ever since United closed she has used Greenwich for emergencies. She suffered a miscarriage two years ago and was hospitalized for two days, a stay that was covered by her husband's insurance.
 In January of this year she suffered an ectopic pregnancy -- one outside the uterine wall -- that required emergency surgery. In conducting scans of her body, doctors discovered she had malignant nodules in her lungs. She has since been receiving chemotherapy weekly, with some doses requiring a night's hospitalization. This time her husband did not have insurance and Ms. Pillajo, who has worked as a housekeeper and beautician, has been applying for Medicaid, which generally does not cover cancer treatments, so the hospital is likely to absorb the cost of her chemotherapy.
 ''The doctors were excellent and always helped me,'' she said, with Mrs. Blanco translating, adding that the nurses were attentive and made sure she understood how to take her medication. She said the treatment contrasted with more callous treatment she has received at hospitals elsewhere.
 ''Everybody here has been very polite,'' she said. 
 Partly as a result of the influx of Port Chester residents, emergency room visits have jumped 85 percent in less than a decade. But the precise impact of Westchester residents on Greenwich Hospital's economics can be amorphous because Greenwich has also refashioned itself as a regional rather than a community hospital and has been recruiting patients and doctor affiliations. There are now 120 affiliated Westchester doctors compared with perhaps 10 a decade ago. Since 1999, the proportion of admissions from Westchester has climbed to 40 percent from 15 percent. 
 The Hispanic share of the patient population is now more than 8 percent, up from 5 percent a decade ago, though some of those are Greenwich residents. George G. Pawlush, vice president of public relations, said that the proportion of Medicaid revenues has doubled since 1999, though the total amounted to only $4.6 million, roughly 2 percent of operating revenues at a hospital that takes in $256 million.
 Medically, the influx of immigrants has rarely brought the kind of exotic case that landed in Dr. Firlik's lap. But Dr. Britvan, the emergency doctor, said that he noticed an increase in laborer injuries since many Port Chester residents were laborers working in landscaping and construction. As a result of these cases, Dr. Britvan said with a smile, doctors have been improving their foreign language skills.
 ''Most of our doctors speak medical Spanish,'' he said. ''We learn it by necessity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ACCESSIBLE: Top, Jodie Boldrighini, left, a nurse, teaches Rosa Pillajo, center, how to use a CyraCom phone, used in interpreting. At right, Natalia Blanco, medical interpreter at Greenwich Hospital. Above left, close-up of the CyraCom phone. The Carl and Dorothy Bennett Community Garden at Greenwich Hospital. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); MENINGITIS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); TUBERCULOSIS (71%); CHARITIES (65%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



484 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: Correction

 BODY:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about whether Americans' faith in the free market would be shaken by the credit crisis misattributed a quotation about the belief that a more regulated economy is likely to emerge. It was Jeffrey Garten, a professor at the Yale School of Management, who said: ''I'm scared about the next year but I'm very optimistic we'll come out of this in good shape. We very well may come out of this horrible situation with a better version of American capitalism -- it'll be a little tamer; it'll be a little more regulated.'' The comment was not by David Ruder, a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission and now a professor emeritus at the Northwestern University School of Law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (88%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



485 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2016 words

HEADLINE: Gifts for Skittish Buyers

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
IF there was any doubt that real estate in New York City had finally shifted from the high-flying seller's market of recent years into a buyer's market, consider the strategies that some developers of new condominiums have recently adopted: Seller financing for up to 90 percent of the purchase price with rates as low as 4.875 percent; payment of mortgage points to reduce the interest rate for buyers; payment of transfer taxes, lawyers' fees, and up to six months in common charges; free parking or a free storage unit.
 Brokers agree that price reductions have become almost commonplace in some developments and even in resales in established co-ops. The market slowed over the summer, convincing many sellers that they had been asking too much for their apartments. 
 Then, the upheaval on Wall Street helped make buyers even bolder. Some are placing lowball bids on three, four or even five properties, just to see where they can get the best deal. 
 These tactics are not new, of course, but until recently they had fallen out of use within the city because the market was so strong that properties sold quickly, bidding wars were more the norm and buyers who hesitated were likely to lose out.
 ''People try a lot of different things in markets that are a little challenging,'' said Andrew Gerringer, the managing director for Prudential Douglas Elliman's development marketing group. ''Developers who are not negotiable today are not thinking along the right lines.''
 Stephen G. Kliegerman, the executive director of development marketing at Halstead Property, said that incentives like those being used today ''were done in the doldrums of the late 1980s and early '90s or maybe from time to time as short-term incentives or to help sell a specific unit line or type, but now we're seeing it more as standard operating procedure, and it will probably be that way until the economy starts to perk up.''
 To increase traffic at their buildings, some developers are also sweetening the pot for brokers by raising their commissions from the traditional 2 or 2.5 percent to as much as 6 percent. Those kinds of incentives are even happening in resales, with at least one group of brokers at Prudential Douglas Elliman persuading their sellers to increase the commission for buyers' brokers to 5 percent from the traditional 3 percent.
 Not all developers are open to negotiation or are offering incentives. But buyers who have been shopping around for a while have become well versed in the kinds of discounts available, and are using that knowledge as a bargaining tool.
 ''When developers drove the market, they determined how it played out,'' said Terry Naini, a vice president at Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''But now buyers have more of a say, and they can say, 'If you don't give me this, I can go next door where they are giving it to me.' ''
 Ms. Naini recently helped a pair of clients, Gina Schmeling and Alani Golanski, buy a large two-bedroom with a terrace at the Belltel Lofts in downtown Brooklyn for just under $1.5 million.
 Ms. Schmeling said that negotiations went at a pretty fast clip, and that in the end, they paid about $85,000 below the asking price. The developer also agreed to a mortgage tax assignment, a complex legal maneuver that saved the couple about $20,000 in mortgage taxes. ''That made a big difference to us,'' Ms. Schmeling said. 
 Developers are offering financing incentives as a way to avoid actually cutting their prices. But while a few advertisements can be found trumpeting buyer bonuses, most developers are not publicizing their incentive programs and present them only to potential buyers at their sales offices. ''They're being a lot more cautious about how they react to a potentially changing market,'' said Mr. Kliegerman of Halstead. 
 He said that at the sales office for 540 West 28th Street, which opened just last week, the developer will let buyers use the building's concierge service from the day they sign a contract, even if they are not scheduled to move into the building for another year. Brokers will also be offered an extra one percentage point on their commission, for a total of 4 percent, just for coming to the sales office and previewing the property before taking buyers to the building.
 ''I lived through the doldrums from 1989 to 1994,'' Mr. Kliegerman said, ''and I learned that in order to assure that you continue to be successful, you don't chase the market -- you get in front of it. Developers understand that by adding value for buyers, they might lose some money, but it keeps properties moving and they will sleep better at night.''
 Many of the financing incentives are a direct response to the tightening of the credit markets, which has made it much more difficult for buyers, especially first-timers, to get a mortgage at a reasonable rate without having to make a huge down payment.
 At 905 West End Avenue, a 53-unit prewar rental building being converted to a condo, the developer, Samson Management, is offering 90 percent financing on seven-year mortgages at 4.875 percent. The loans have the same monthly payments as 30-year mortgages, but buyers will have to refinance after seven years. The offer is good only through Nov. 4.
 ''You can't get 90 percent financing anywhere right now, not even through private lending,'' said Louise Phillips Forbes, an executive vice president at Halstead Property who is heading sales at the building. She said several buyers were considering the financing program, ''and they are all finance-able; they have held mortgages and never had a late payment; they are people that any bank under normal circumstances would be throwing money at.''
 A similar financing plan is already working at the Fitzgerald, a 46-unit building on West 117th Street, where five buyers have taken advantage of sponsor financing offering seven-year mortgages with fixed rates of 5.34 percent. ''They've deemed it advantageous not to have to go through the brain damage and trouble of applying to banks and facing possible rejection,'' said Robert Friedman, the developer. 
 A more common financing bonus is an interest rate buy-down plan, in which a developer will pay one or two points on a buyer's mortgage to reduce the mortgage rate by one or two percentage points. The cost to a developer varies depending on the size of a mortgage, but it can invariably save buyers hundreds of dollars in monthly payments.
 The Azure, a 34-story tower under construction on East 91st Street, started running ads late last month offering programs that provide savings of ''as much as 10 percent per annum in the carrying costs of a JPMorgan Chase mortgage.''
 Nancy Packes, the president of the project marketing division of Brown Harris Stevens, which is handling sales at the Azure, said the sponsor had agreed to pay points to lock in current interest rates for an 18-month period so that buyers need not worry that their mortgages will cost more when the building is finally completed. ''There's apprehension over the current credit crisis,'' she said, ''and we're offering tools that directly meet those concerns.''
 The sponsor has also offered to buy down mortgage interest rates by one percentage point. According to the sponsor's estimates, on a one-bedroom apartment selling for $1.095 million at a current interest rate of 6.13 percent, monthly mortgage payments would come to about $4,474. But with the interest rate buy-down bringing the rate to 5.13 percent, monthly payments would be only about $3,744. The estimated monthly savings with the incentives are $730, and the annual savings are $8,760. In fact, the actual savings, 16 percent, exceed the 10 percent advertised. 
 Incentives can be found in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens, and at big and small developments alike.
 Jessica Armstead, a vice president at the Corcoran Group who is handling sales at the Nina and the Leah, two small buildings on East 117th Street, said the developer for the two buildings decided this month to pay half of the state and city transfer taxes, a cost usually foisted on buyers. For a one-bedroom penthouse at the Nina, which is asking $599,000, transfer taxes would total nearly $11,000. Brokers who bring buyers who sign contracts before Nov. 1 have also been promised 4 percent commissions and $500 American Express gift cards. 
 ''We haven't reduced prices, because the apartments are priced fairly,'' Ms. Armstead said. But reducing ''the transfer taxes is pretty significant -- you could furnish the apartment with the savings.''
 Perhaps the developments most in need of buyer incentives are those that are not yet completed, because buyers might worry that a developer could run into financial difficulties and might not ever finish the building.
 Kenneth S. Horn, a principal at Alchemy Properties, which has been developing condominiums in Manhattan since 1990, said sales at two properties finished in the spring had been strong. ''When the building is up and completed, the market is holding for us,'' he said.
 But the Isis, an 18-story Alchemy building under construction at 305 East 77th Street, is built up only to the fifth floor right now. ''Two years ago, you could sell off of a floor plan, but the market is different now,'' Mr. Horn said. ''Buyers want to know that the building is actually going to go up and be completed.'' 
 He said he had hoped to sell as many as eight of the 32 units before the end of construction late next year, so the building has advertised a precompletion bonus of up to $50,000 in closing costs. ''We're doing this to get a jump on the market,'' he said.
 Still, despite the current unease in the financial world, he said, ''to a certain degree, New York is always going to be New York. There aren't that many places to build and ultimately the product will be absorbed over time.''
 JoAnne Kennedy, the chief operating officer of Coldwell Banker Previews International, said that with inventory growing and incentives being offered, now is a good time to be a buyer.
 ''Buyers are definitely being more aggressive, but why wouldn't you be?'' she said. ''Everyone's shopping higher than their affordable range because they want to negotiate.'' Someone who can spend $1.2 million might now look at apartments asking up to $1.45 million. ''When the market was strong, that would have been a waste of their time, but it's different now that there is negotiability,'' she said.
 Sellers of existing apartments, meanwhile, are also adjusting their behavior.
 Robert Luzzi, an executive at an apparel company, put his Upper East Side penthouse on the market over the summer, and he said he was taken aback when his brokers urged him to increase the commission for a buyer's broker to 5 percent from 3 percent. ''I said to them: 'Are you guys crazy? You've got to be kidding me,' '' he said.
 His brokers, the Bracha Group, a team of 13 agents at Prudential Douglas Elliman, have urged all their sellers to do the same. ''This idea is not a new idea,'' said Mickey Roth, a member of the Bracha Group. ''But we want to create buzz and traffic and we want brokers to be proactive about bringing people to our apartments, and they'll do it if they know they'll get more money.''
 Mr. Roth said that they hadn't persuaded all their sellers to increase the commission, which would help garner broker interest in their property, but that many had agreed, because ''we weren't asking for extra commission on our side, just to pay our competition in the brokers' community more.'' 
 Mr. Luzzi said he eventually agreed, because he learned that a potential buyer for his multimillion-dollar penthouse in a five-year-old building had instead opted to buy in a new development that offered other kinds of incentives. ''I didn't give them a long leash, though; I told them I would only do it for 30 days,'' he said. ''And they found me a buyer in 28 days, so how crazy was it?''
 The two extra percentage points will cost him about $150,000, he said, ''but that's nominal compared to the bigger picture, which is 'now I've sold the apartment.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WEST SIDE: 905 West End Avenue in Manhattan, a prewar rental building being converted to condos, is one of several offering financing.
EAST SIDE: The developer of the Leah, pictured, and the Nina, both on East 117th Street in Manhattan, is offering incentives but is not lowering prices. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA MCALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE1)
QUEENS: The Foundry at Hunters Point in Long Island City is paying transfer taxes and is giving a year of free storage.
 BROOKLYN: Northside Piers in Williamsburg will help reduce monthly mortgage costs for buyers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA MCALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



486 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; STYLE; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Food Fighters

BYLINE: BY CHRISTINE MUHLKE

 BODY:
In college, Severine von Tscharner Fleming's ''violent allergic reaction to L.A.'' drove her to help set up a guerrilla farming club, visit farmers on the West Coast in a vegetable-oil pickup truck and form the Society for Agriculture and Food Ecology at the University of California, Berkeley. Now von Tscharner Fleming, the child of urban planners from Cambridge, Mass., wants her peers to get dirty. ''Farming is an attractive path for people who are getting out of school and feeling like there's kind of a toxic consumerism and not feeling too excited about working for the Man, especially seeing as he's been spoiling our politics and a lot of our ecology,'' she said. She started serveyourcountryfood.net, an interactive map charting farmers under 40, and is making ''The Greenhorns,'' a documentary on ''organic entrepreneurs.'' ''I want to show how sweet and honest and brave and purposeful they are,'' she said of her subjects. With an office in the village of Red Hook and farmland she is renting in the Hudson River Valley, von Tscharner Fleming knows she needs to go beyond the field in order to effect real policy change: ''They're making some kind of sausage in Washington, and I felt like some young farmer flavor would be appropriate.'' 
 Anna Lappe didn't know it when she read Bryant Terry's name in the ''Future 500,'' a who's-who of youth advocates and organizations, but she would end up writing a book with him. The pair, who were then neighbors in Brooklyn, published ''Grub: Ideas for an Urban Organic Kitchen'' in 2006 as a way to cool-ify healthful, local, sustainable food, with a side of social justice. It was an easy fit. Lappe is the daughter of Frances Moore Lappe, whose 1971 best seller, ''Diet for a Small Planet,'' changed how people thought about world hunger; the two created the Small Planet Institute in 2001 to foster what they call ''a living democracy.'' At that time, Terry -- moved by the fact that the inner-city children in his workshops ate the ''worst possible food'' -- founded b-healthy! to teach low-income children the importance of fresh food. 
 Lappe, a frequent public speaker, says her current book project and education campaign is about the connection between the global food system and climate change. ''It's a missing link in people's minds,'' she said. ''We know now that livestock production alone is responsible for 18 percent of all greenhouse-gas emissions -- a higher percentage than all forms of transportation.'' Terry, based in Oakland, Calif., is currently a food-and-society-policy fellow of the W. K. Kellogg Foundation and the Fair Food Foundation and is writing ''Vegan Soul Kitchen,'' which he says he hopes will reframe the way people see African-American cuisine. But no matter what he writes or says onstage, said Terry, ''the way I've seen more people connect to food ideas . . . is by making them a meal using fresh, local, organic food. It's such a visceral thing.''
 In 1978, a tomato picker in Florida received 40 to 45 cents for every 32-pound bushel he or she harvested. That wage is the same today. The Coalition of Immokalee Workers was started in 1993 as a way for Latino, Haitian and Mayan Indian pickers to fight back. In 2001, they demanded an extra penny per pound of tomatoes from Taco Bell, which they received in 2005. They have since persuaded McDonald's, Burger King and, last month, Whole Foods Market to move toward improving wages and working conditions. ''Companies who buy large amounts of tomatoes are interested in profits, not in our rights as workers,'' Gerardo Reyes said through a translator. ''As their buying power gets bigger and bigger, even the most basic human rights aren't being met.'' The 4,000-member coalition has no leader, though Lucas Benitez, one of the few members of the group who speaks English, has become one of the most visible faces of the coalition. The discussion is far from over. ''When we're invited to speak at conferences on sustainable food, we hear about the environment and the rights of animals and small farmers, but we're left out of that,'' Reyes said. ''You cannot call sustainable food sustainable when it's not fair.''
 As a New York City nightclub promoter, Scott Harrison cultivated people who didn't blink at paying $350 for a bottle of vodka. These days, he's focused on getting the world's poorest 1.1 billion people clean, safe drinking water. ''Even a homeless person in New York has access to clean water and toilets,'' he said. A volunteer trip to Liberia in 2006 marked the turning point for Harrison; he became a photojournalist documenting doctors. Of all the scarcities he witnessed, the greatest need he saw was for water. ''The problem is so massive, if we had $100 million, we could solve less than 1 percent of it,'' he said. Through Charity Water, the nonprofit group he founded in 2007, he has raised more than $6 million and financed 890 water projects in 13 developing countries in Africa, Central America and Asia. Harrison is savvy in tapping the fashion crowd, working with the likes of Saks Fifth Avenue for fund-raising events. The slick Charity Water Web site uses G.P.S. technology to show donors where their money is going. ''I really tried to reinvent charity,'' Harrison said. And he says he believes he's succeeding: ''Some of the same guys who were buying $350 bottles of vodka from me are now buying wells.''
 If ''Green Acres'' were remade -- and not as a musical -- Eddie and Eva would have to do much more to keep the farm afloat. 
 If they were as forward-thinking as the owners of Maverick Farms in the Blue Ridge Mountains of North Carolina, they would add a working bed and breakfast, farm dinners, a restaurant-supply business, a farm-share produce-delivery network and a nonprofit incubator program that teaches teenagers how to run a farm. Because with today's back-to-the-landers, it's not about the vegetables; it's about ''reconnecting local food networks.'' 
 Four years ago, Alice Brooke Wilson and her sister, Hillary, took over their father's farm. Alice Brooke moved from 
 Brooklyn with her boyfriend, Tom Philpott, then a financial writer. They were joined by Sara Safransky, an editor and youth-development worker, and her boyfriend at the time, Leo Gaev. ''We were excited about farming, we were excited about food, but we were pretty naive,'' especially about the economic realities of a small farm (three of them hold off-farm jobs to make ends meet), Philpott said. Still, Maverick's operators are more interested in rebuilding the area's diminished farming community than in turning a profit. ''We could have a really nice business selling expensive produce to rich second-home owners and cooking expensive dinners for them,'' Philpott said. ''But we're trying to be part of a movement to build a sustainable-but-accessible and socially just food system.'' 
 A decade ago, Patrick Martins never imagined he would have a hand in making Red Wattle pork a foodie buzzword. 
 For his thesis on medieval food sculpture at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, he spoke to Carlo Petrini, the Rabelaisian founder of the international slow-food movement. Petrini invited him to join his office in Bra, Italy, and they sat virtually desk to desk for a year, until Martins returned to his native Manhattan to start Slow Food USA. ''There was just a desire by people I knew to be a part of a good cause and to get together over food and drink,'' he said. He soon helped found Heritage Foods USA, which has worked to rescue vanishing turkey breeds like the Bourbon Red -- as well as the farmers raising them -- through a mail-order campaign. In 2004, Martins left Slow Food to make Heritage Foods USA an independent company with the idea that the best way to save food is by eating it (and actively creating a business for it). Today, more than 300 chefs, including Mario Batali and David Chang, rely on his growing network of small breeders and slaughterhouses for their ''noncommodity'' meat and poultry, including Horned Dorset lamb and Highland cattle; he recently helped open an agriturismo (a working-farm B. and B.) and he will soon start a food-themed Internet radio station. It's not the locavoracious diners who inspire Martins -- not only is Heritage Foods saving breeds, he says with pride, it's saving family farms. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Severine von Tscharner Fleming, 27 Filmmaker, advocate Nevis, N.Y.(MM78)
Anna Lappe, 34 / Bryant Terry, 34 Authors, advocates Brooklyn (MM80)
Cruz Salucio, 24 / Romeo Ramirez, 27/ Silvia Perez, 34/ Gerardo Reyes, 31/ Leonel Perez, 20 Farmworker advocates Immokalee, Fla.(MM81)
Scott Harrison, 33 Water-charity founder New York (MM82)
Hilary Wilson, 24/ Alice Brooke Wilson, 31/ Tom Philpott, 42/ Leo Gaev, 30 Farmers Valle Crucis, N.C. (MM 83)
 Patrick Martins, 36 Breed Saver New York. (MM84 and MM85) (Photographs by LARS TUNBJORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (87%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (73%); ALLERGIES (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CLIMATE CHANGE (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); WRITERS (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WEST USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



487 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Out Of Panic, Self-Reliance

BYLINE: By HAROLD BLOOM. 
Harold Bloom teaches at Yale.

DATELINE: New Haven 

 BODY:
 IN the spring of 1837, a great depression afflicted the northeastern United States. All the banks in New York City, Philadelphia and Baltimore suspended cash payments, as did many in Boston. Of the 850 banks in the United States, nearly half closed or partly failed. If the crisis of 2008 was caused by poor lending, the Panic of 1837, too, featured speculation and inflation. 
 The bank failures of 1837 were followed by high unemployment that lasted into 1843. Foreign over-investment (chiefly British) had augmented the bubble, which burst when the wily English pulled their money out. President Martin Van Buren, a Jacksonian Democrat, refused any government involvement in a bailout, and so was widely blamed for the panic. Van Buren was defeated in his re-election bid in 1840 by his Whig opponent, William Henry Harrison.
 The similarities between the crashes of 1837 and 1929 are evident again today. I am not an economist or a political scientist, but having been born in 1930, I retain poignant early memories of the impact of the Great Depression upon my father, a working man who struggled to maintain a family with five children in a very hard time. I am a scholar of literature and religion, and would advise whoever becomes president to turn to Ralph Waldo Emerson, whose influential vision of America was deeply informed by the crisis of 1837: 
 I see a good in such emphatic and universal calamity as the times bring, that they dissatisfy me with society. Under common burdens we say there is much virtue in the world, and what evil co-exists is inevitable. I am not aroused to say, ''I have sinned: I am in a gall of bitterness, and a bond of iniquity''; but when these full measures come, it then stands confessed -- society has played out its last stake; it is checkmated. Young men have no hope. Adults stand like day laborers, idle on the streets. None calleth us to labor. The old wear no crown of warm life on their gray hairs. The present generation is bankrupt of principles and hope, as of property. I see man is not what man should be. He is the treadle of a wheel. He is a tassel at the apron string of society. He is a money chest. He is the servant of his belly. This is the causal bankruptcy, this is the cruel oppression, that the ideal should serve the actual, that the head should serve the feet. Then first, I am forced to inquire if the ideal might not also be tried. Is it to be taken for granted that it is impracticable? Behold the boasted world has come to nothing. Prudence itself is at her wits' end.
 Pride, and Thrift, and Expediency, who jeered and chirped and were so well pleased with themselves, and made merry with the dream, as they termed it, of Philosophy and Love, -- behold they are all flat, and here is the Soul erect and unconquered still. What answer is it now to say, ''It has always been so?'' I acknowledge that, as far back as I can see the widening procession of humanity, the marchers are lame and blind and deaf; but to the soul that whole past is but one finite series in its infinite scope. Deteriorating ever and now desperate. Let me begin anew. Let me teach the finite to know its master. Let me ascend above my fate and work down upon my world.
 It may shock that the Sage of Concord should react to catastrophe with such idealistic glee. Most Americans -- the governor of Alaska, who never blinks, doubtless among them -- would be startled by the admonition to begin anew and ascend above our fate.
 There is little disagreement that Emerson was the most influential writer of 19th-century America, though these days he is largely the concern of scholars. Walt Whitman, Henry David Thoreau and William James were all positive Emersonians, while Herman Melville, Nathaniel Hawthorne and Henry James were Emersonians in denial -- while they set themselves in opposition to the sage, there was no escaping his influence. To T. S. Eliot, Emerson's essays were an ''encumbrance.'' Waldo the Sage was eclipsed from 1914 until 1965, when he returned to shine, after surviving in the work of major American poets like Robert Frost, Wallace Stevens and Hart Crane.
 Beyond literary tradition, Emerson has maintained an effect upon American politics and sociology. The oddity of Emerson in the public sphere is that he has the power to foster fresh versions of the two camps he termed the Party of Memory and the Party of Hope. The political right appropriates his values of remembering private interests as part of the public good, while the left follows his exaltation of the American Adam, a New Man in a New World of hope. The rivalry between these polarized camps is very much apparent in this election.
 Emerson was electrified by financial storms. The depression beginning in 1837 spurred his famous oration at Harvard, ''The American Scholar'':
 The literature of the poor, the feelings of the child, the philosophy of the street, the meaning of the household life, are the topics of the time. It is a great stride. It is a sign -- is it not? -- of new vigor, when the extremities are made active, when currents of warm life run into the hands and feet .... Let me see every trifle bristling with the polarity that ranges it instantly on an eternal law; and the shop, the plow and the ledger referred to the like cause by which light undulates and poets sing.
 Emerson would have understood our current raging polarities. That American cultural nationalism should have been stimulated by a banking disaster is a wholly Emersonian paradox. Another enigma is the direct link between the lingering financial crisis and Emerson's formulation of his mature religious stance, crucially in his essay, ''Self-Reliance,'' of 1839-40:
 Life only avails, not the having lived. Power ceases in the instant of repose; it resides in the moment of transition from a past to a new state, in the shooting of the gulf, in the darting to an aim .... Why then do we prate of self-reliance? Inasmuch as the soul is present there will be power not confident but agent. To talk of reliance is a poor external way of speaking. Speak rather of that which relies because it works and it is. Who has more obedience than I masters me, though he should not raise his finger. Round him I must revolve by the gravitation of spirits. We fancy it rhetoric when we speak of eminent value. We do not yet see that virtue is height, and that a man or a company of men, plastic and permeable to principles, by the law of nature must overpower and ride all cities, nations, kings, rich men, poets, who are not.
 By ''self-reliance'' Emerson meant the recognition of the god within us, rather than the worship of the Christian godhead (a deity that some Americans cannot always distinguish from themselves). Whether they know it or not, John McCain and Barack Obama seek power in just this ultimately serious sense, although that marvelous passage means one thing to Emersonians of the right and something very different to Emersonians of the left. Senator Obama's mantra of ''change'' celebrates the shooting of the gulf, the darting to an aim, setting aside ''the having lived.'' Senator McCain's ''change'' reflects what remains most authentic about him, the nostalgia of the Party of Memory.
 Barack Obama emanates from the tradition of the black church, where ''the little me within the big me'' is part or particle of God, just as the Emersonian self was. But he is a subtle intellectual and will not mistake himself for the Divine, and he has the curbing influence of Senator Joseph Biden, a conventional Roman Catholic, at his side.John McCain's religiosity is at one with the Party of Memory, but he has aligned himself with Gov. Sarah Palin, who, as an Assemblies of God Pentecostalist, presumably enjoys closer encounters with the comforting Holy Spirit.
 Regardless of these differences, whoever is elected will have to forge a solution to today's panic through his own understanding of self-reliance. As Emerson knew in his glory and sorrow, both of himself and all Americans: ''The wealth of the universe is for me. Every thing is explicable and practical for me .... I am defeated all the time; yet to victory I am born.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREA DEZSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



488 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Troubles on Wall Street Make Shoppers Stop to Think Before They Buy

BYLINE: By MARTIN ESPINOZA

 BODY:
Two days after buying a $40 DKNY tie on sale at a mall in Queens, Laumonte Williams went back to the mall on Saturday to return it. After a week of financial chaos, Mr. Williams decided that such a purchase suddenly seemed more of a luxury than a necessity.
 ''Normally, even if I wasn't going to use it right away, I'd leave it in my closet and use it later,'' said Mr. Williams, a 25-year-old Flushing resident who works as an office manager in Manhattan and wears ties all the time. ''This time, I'm saying, 'Uh-uh, I can't afford it.' '' 
 Elaine Mandel, a retired nurse who lives in Long Island City, was at the same mall, Queens Center, returning clothes she bought at the Macy's store there because she said they did not fit and ''didn't suit my purpose.'' 
 Many of the shoppers at Queens Center in Elmhurst on Saturday, the day after one of the worst weeks in the history of Wall Street, offered a variation on the same theme: they were being much more discriminating in deciding what was essential and what was not.
 With each day seemingly bringing a fresh batch of grim financial news, this was not the time, many shoppers said, to be adding to their credit card balances. 
 ''It's not a bottomless pit anymore,'' said Ms. Mandel, a widow on a fixed income who said her mutual fund investments had lost 60 percent since last year while the maintenance fee at her co-op had increased three times this year.
 With the holiday shopping season approaching, Ms. Mandel said this year she had to be ''very careful and very selective.''
 Alicia Williams, who lives in Brownsville, Brooklyn, and works for a financial services company in Lower Manhattan, described the mood on Wall Street as sobering.
 ''I work on Wall Street and I'm broke,'' Ms. Williams said as she walked out of the J. C. Penney store, carrying white plastic bags that contained linens and other household items, ''stuff that you really need.''
 Like other shoppers, Ms. Williams said she is watching her budget more closely, checking for sales and refraining from buying things like clothes, shoes, jewelry and perfume that suddenly seem to be more of a luxury.
 ''You don't know if you have a job today or tomorrow,'' said Ms. Williams, who was with her 7-year-old daughter, Keilah. ''I think the market is going to pick back up and the economy is going to pick back up. It's just a matter of time.''
 Price reductions were abundant throughout Queens Center -- which has more than 150 stores and restaurants on four levels -- and helped lure some shoppers. 
 Evelyn Pena, a home attendant who lives in East Elmhurst, struggled with her decision to buy a leather handbag at J. C. Penney. The handbag, which had a regular price of $50, was selling for about $30.
 ''I have one at home, so I was thinking not to buy it,'' Mrs. Pena said. In the end she bought it.
 The mall, which sits on Queens Boulevard and is easily accessible by bus and subway, had more than 26 million visitors in 2007, said Dawn Simon, the center's senior marketing manager. Ms. Simon said she could not predict what effect the struggling economy would have on this Columbus Day weekend's shopping.
 At Morning Glory, a children's gift shop, Jaeyoung Han, the store's owner, watched shoppers walk up and down aisles stocked with colorful Asian imports, including decorative stationery, fancy handbags and, of course, ''Hannah Montana'' backpacks. Fewer people made it to the register.
 One effect of the economic crisis, Mrs. Han said, is that parents are opting to purchase more educational items like the battery-operated Animal Talk & Teach Phone, which helps toddlers learn their numbers and the alphabet.
 ''Before, we didn't have so much of these stocked, but now we do,'' said Mrs. Han, who has owned the gift shop in the mall for seven years.
 The store's bottom line was hurt last Christmas, she said, because fears of lead in Chinese-made toys caused many parents to opt for European toys. Strong sales during the holidays are crucial, she said, and help her pay her rent for the following year.
 As he strolled toward Macy's with his tie, Mr. Williams said that after watching the stock market plunge, a $40 tie just didn't make sense. 
 ''The market has just been terrible, and there's been this fear of what could happen,'' he said. ''I said to myself, 'If you don't need it, take it back.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A children's gift shop owner at Queens Center in Elmhurst said customers were browsing, but not as many were buying. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



489 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Across the Country, Fear About Savings, the Job Market and Retirement

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON; Nick Bunkley and Crystal Yednak contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A year ago, Robert Paynter was comfortably retired and looking forward to years of refurbishing old cars and boating from his dock on Lake Norman in North Carolina. Over a 17-year career at Wachovia, he amassed a pile of stock and options from the bank that he had assumed would be worth more than $600,000.
But now the options are worthless, and he watched the value of his Wachovia shares shrink to about $15,000 before he sold all of them this week after the bank succumbed to the financial crisis and its stock fell to fire-sale prices. The rest of his investments are in free fall.
''It's like having an out-of-body experience,'' said Mr. Paynter, 61. ''It's like being in a hospital bed and watching yourself dying. Whatever the bottom is going to be, I wish it would just get there. It's the every day, watching the blood drain out of it, that's hard to take.'' 
To be sure, he has enough savings to not worry about missing any meals. But Mr. Paynter is resetting his plans for retirement, and has already canceled a trip with friends to Europe next year. ''Today I'm O.K.,'' he said. ''But a year ago I felt like I was in great shape.''
Across the country, Americans are tallying their many losses from the relentless rout in the markets. Financial message boards on the Internet are filled with confessions of fear -- about hits to savings, job security and scuttled retirement plans.
''My plan was to never work again,'' wrote one person who posted a comment on Bogleheads.org, a Web site for investors who follow the long-term investing advice of John Bogle, founder of the Vanguard funds. ''But somebody called me yesterday to see if I was interested in a job, and I am thinking maybe I will go back to work.''
It is not just the declines in savings that people are feeling, reflected in the shrinking balances on quarterly banking statements now arriving in mailboxes.
Based on interviews around the country last week as the market continued its steep slide, many people say they are sensing losses beyond the short-term hits to their portfolios. Some feel a loss of faith in the United States and its government. Others are lowering their sights for the kinds of lives they expect to lead in coming years.
''Maybe we have to readjust our expectations,'' said Nicholas Gaffney, a partner in a San Francisco public relations firm. ''No one is entitled to anything.''
Mr. Gaffney describes himself as a buy-and-hold investor, and he has been sensing good opportunities of late. He has plowed more than $10,000 into his funds. The value of his portfolio, now at several hundred thousand dollars, has dropped more than a quarter.
He confesses he has been fighting with himself over how closely he should follow the market's gyrations. One day, he checked the market on his Treo cellphone about 200 times. ''I thought to myself, 'What am I doing?' '' he said. ''I had to stop because I was driving myself crazy. I think everything is going to be fine if people don't panic.''
That is wishful thinking at this point. Investors have withdrawn more than $81 billion from stock mutual funds since the beginning of the year, with nearly 40 percent of that coming in the last six weeks, according to AMG Data Services, an industry research firm.
Not everyone is panicking, of course. Some are able to see the big picture or find ways to distance themselves from the crush of news about the market.
''Maybe a shrink would have a field day with me,'' said Beth Sparks, 40, a self-employed lawyer in Colorado Springs. ''But I have an ability to not think about it.''
A week ago, Ms. Sparks reviewed her investments for the first time since January. All are down roughly 30 percent. But Ms. Sparks said she was not concerned because she and her husband did not have a lot of debt. When her husband inherited $50,000 last year, they used it to pay off their mortgage. Vacations typically mean drives to Arizona to spend time with her parents. ''I'm just happy me and my family are healthy,'' she said.
Peter Schade, 49, who runs his own ad design firm in Farmington Hills, Mich., said each day of bad news was a blow to the idea that he would ever be able to retire.
''I've kind of resigned myself to the fact that I'm going to be working for the rest of my life,'' he said.
For the last few weeks, Mr. Schade said, he has been closely monitoring the news on the CNN satellite radio network in his car. ''I just feel numb,'' he said. ''The news is changing every half hour.''
Mr. Schade said he and others in the Detroit area were accustomed to weathering downturns in the economy.
''It doesn't make it any easier, but we've sort of fortified ourselves,'' he said. In many ways, he said, the rest of the county is just now starting to feel what Detroit has been going through for years, giving people here a head start in coping. ''Detroit was the canary in the mine for this. We started this at least three years ago.''
Tom Drooger, 56, of Grand Haven, Mich., is president of a chapter of BetterInvesting, an investment club affiliated with the National Association of Investors Corporation.
Usually, Mr. Drooger is the type to study stocks closely and track the market's movement throughout the day. By Friday, he was no longer even paying attention. He has decided to stop watching the market news on CNBC for now and instead puts on easy-listening music.
''There's nothing you can do about it after a while,'' he said.
He compared the financial crisis to a house on fire and said he was merely waiting until the flames die down.
''Once the fire's out, you go in and do the repairs,'' he explained. ''To start to try to move things around until the market wrings itself out is pointless. I'm just sitting on the sidelines, leaving everything where it's at.''
College students are watching from the sidelines, too, since they typically are more concerned about jobs at this stage of their lives than the nest eggs.
Matthew Ehrlich, 23, a second-year law student at Wayne State University in Detroit, is worried about whether the economy will improve before he graduates in 2010.
''If things don't get better in the next two years, I'm going to have a real tough time,'' he said. ''My hope is that I can just ride it out until the financial markets get back on track.''
Mr. Ehrlich is still debating what type of law to specialize in and said this crisis might ultimately influence his decision.
''The way things are going, bankruptcy law seems to be pretty hot,'' he said.
Beyond the personal toll to their savings, some people said they were concerned about what the financial crisis said about the United States.
''All I can tell you is it is a lack of faith in America,'' said Pat Emard, 65, of Aptos, Calif., who now worries she may have to go back to work. ''People have lost faith in our government. I don't know what happens now.''
That sense of uncertainty is also troubling to Renee Snow, 73, a retired teacher who taught in the Chicago public schools for 38 years.
Born during the Depression, Ms. Snow said it was in her DNA to save, save, save. Over her career as a teacher, she did just that, and Ms. Snow, now a widow, lives off her teachers' pension and income from her tax-exempt savings plan. She says she has always put her money in insured products when she could.
''I never watch the stock market, and now I'm watching it every day,'' she said.
She has money socked away in savings accounts in different banks but recently began researching whether her banks were solid.
The economy is a frequent topic of conversation among friends at the Jane Addams Senior Caucus, an organization in Chicago where she volunteers as a board member.
Over the last couple of weeks, a general malaise has taken over, Ms. Snow said. ''It's very hard to have much faith in what the government is doing when they change it every day,'' she said. ''As you read more and more about how we got into this situation, you have less and less faith of how we're going to get out of it.''
She has an ominous feeling about the future, she said. ''You don't go through life thinking the bank I do business with could go belly up tomorrow,'' she said. ''This is a new feeling people are living with.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pat Emard, 65, of Aptos, Calif., worries about having to go back to work. ''People have lost faith in our government,'' she says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''Maybe we have to readjust our expectations,'' says Nicholas Gaffney, with his wife, Marie, and their son, Quinlan, 2. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (92%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



490 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: When an ARM Makes Sense

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
BORROWERS generally hate adjustable rate mortgages, or ARMs, but this sentiment may be illogical, since ARMs often offer relatively low rates. After all, why would the average homeowner choose a high fixed interest rate for 30 years when he stays put for only seven years?
 Now, rates on bigger mortgages are giving borrowers cause to carefully consider ARMs, and mortgage specialists say they are worth a look. 
 ''Some borrowers right now must consider an ARM,'' said Keith Gumbinger, a vice president at HSH Associates, a financial industry publisher. That is especially true, he said, of those who need so-called jumbo loans -- mortgages so big that lenders cannot sell the loan to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored companies that resell mortgages to investors.
 Such loans carry more risk, so lenders charge interest rates of at least one half of a percentage point more than for smaller loans. The threshold for what constitutes a jumbo loan varies by region and, recently, by the calendar. In New York City, for example, the jumbo threshold is now $729,750, but starting in January loans above $629,000 will be classified as jumbos.
 Lately, Mr. Gumbinger said, interest rates on 30-year fixed jumbo loans have hovered around 7.5 percent. At that level, a borrower with a $750,000 loan would pay $5,249 monthly. By comparison, a buyer who opts for a 5/1 ARM -- in which the rate remains fixed for five years but then varies every 12 months according to a particular market index -- could get an initial interest rate of 6.56 percent. On a monthly basis for the first five years, the ARM costs $4,770, or $479 less.
 The merits of that loan depend on a borrower's long-term plans. If the borrower plans to remain in the home for only seven years, there is little risk of financial calamity, since rates on many 5/1 ARMs can increase by only one percentage point annually. In the worst case, then, the rate would jump to about 8.5 percent. 
 If, however, the borrower keeps the home for many years and rates steadily rise, he could end up paying the maximum rate, which is typically capped at six percentage points above the starting rate. A rate of 12.5 percent would certainly sting.
 Of course, ARM rates can also drop, and borrowers can save if rates go down.
 Interest rates on ARMs are commonly tied to one of three market indexes: the Federal Home Loan Bank's 11th District cost of funds index (COFI), the London interbank offered rate (Libor), or the one-year United States Treasury index (Treasuries for short). 
 The COFI is typically less volatile than the other indexes, Mr. Gumbinger said. 
 ARMs tied to the Libor have been hammered recently. Since Sept. 1, rates after the initial fixed period on these loans have jumped by more than 1.5 percentage points, to about 6.25 percent. 
 By contrast, those with ARMs tied to the COFI index saw their rates remain steady in that time. Those with ARMs tied to the weekly Treasury indexes had their rates drop by half of a percentage point, to 4.34 percent.
 The timing of a loan's origination is also important: borrowers whose Libor loans adjusted in August would enjoy a year of payments far below those whose loans adjusted on Oct. 1.
 In general, borrowers with the stomach for risk -- and bigger swings in rates, either up or down -- are better candidates for an ARM tied to the Libor or the Treasury index, Mr. Gumbinger said, while those seeking less volatility should opt for an ARM tied to the COFI index. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Mortgage interest rates (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



491 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: BIg Deal: Like Old Times (Almost)

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AT a time when you might think the entire Manhattan real estate market had jumped off the Brooklyn Bridge, some buyers and sellers have been engaging in that old-fashioned Manhattan pastime: the bidding war.
 Though some brokers say the market remains in a pause while buyers assess the faltering economy, others have been able to close deals in every segment of the market, and even on days when the stock market has been plummeting. After all, people have to live somewhere, don't they?
 On Sept. 29, the day the House of Representatives first took up and rejected a $700 billion economic rescue plan, Randolph D. Lerner, the owner of the Cleveland Browns of the National League Football League, closed on a 1,730-square-foot two-bedroom Greenwich Village co-op at 15 West 11th Street for $4.06 million, according to city property records. That was $100,000 over the asking price, enough for Mr. Lerner to clinch the deal over an art dealer with a competing bid, according to Jan Hashey, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman. 
 The seller was Jason Mutchnick, the television producer who created ''Will & Grace.'' According to Streeteasy.com, that apartment went into contract in August. 
 Also on Sept. 29, as the stock market fell by more than 770 points, Sarah Parsons, a broker with the Corcoran Group, waited anxiously, not for the stock ticker, but for a buyer to meet with his lawyer that afternoon and sign a contract for a one-bedroom in a 20-foot-wide brownstone in Park Slope. 
 The sellers, Kara R. Finck, a lawyer providing legal services to the poor, and her husband, Mark Humowiecki, a special counsel to the Workers' Compensation Board, had put their 800-square-foot apartment on the market after Labor Day for $535,000, because they needed a larger apartment after the birth of a child. 
 The apartment, at 55 Montgomery Place, was priced right and had some special features that helped it sell quickly, Ms. Parsons said, including a private rear garden on a quiet town house street, a few doors from Prospect Park. 
 After two open houses, she said, there were three bids, including two over the asking price. But Ms. Parsons said that ''in this environment,'' the sellers chose the offer at the asking price, because the buyer, an Internet sports journalist, offered to pay cash (with some help from his family). 
 ''If you have two or three things that are fantastic and unusual, even in this horrible market, there are some things that can sell quickly,'' Ms. Parsons said. After the buyer signed, Ms. Finck and her husband made an offer for a larger apartment on the same block; their bid was accepted.
 On Tuesday, when the stock market fell more than 500 points, a third-floor walk-up in a town house at 348 East 89th Street went into contract for just over the $499,900 asking price, according to Brian Lewis, a broker at Halstead Property. Mr. Lewis said that the condo needed renovation, and that the seller had agreed to ''price it provocatively.'' 
 There were 28 buyers at the first open house and almost as many at a second one, he said, and soon afterward there were two ''bona fide offers,'' both over the asking price, one from an investor and the other from a person who planned to renovate and live there.
 Mr. Lewis said that the seller wanted to choose a buyer based on financial strength and ability to close, rather than price. In the end, the seller chose the individual buyer, after Mr. Lewis was allowed to interview the man's mortgage broker. 
 ''He is a professional, not in the financial field, with good job longevity,'' he said. 
 Quick deals are not limited to lower-priced properties. A duplex penthouse at 1185 Park Avenue went on the market in mid-September, after the fall of Lehman Brothers, with an asking price of $20 million. It had been the home of Kitty Carlisle Hart, the entertainer and grande dame, who died in April, and Moss Hart, the Broadway playwright. 
 Brokers said that by the middle of last week, the internal listing at Brown Harris Stevens, which was held by Katherine P. Marshall, showed an ''accepted offer'' on the property, though a contract had not yet been signed.
 ''I am getting bids all day long,'' said Paula Del Nunzio, a Brown Harris Stevens broker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); ART DEALERS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); US LABOR DAY (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%); SPORTS (69%); LAWYERS (66%); LEGAL AID (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (62%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (50%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND BROWNS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (76%) OHIO, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



492 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Slow Road to Wealth, With 'No Shortcuts'

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
CUT AND SPLURGE This question will no doubt arise this week at a conference on ''Media and Money'' in New York: Which media and entertainment companies are most vulnerable in a downturn? 
 One of the participants in the conference, sponsored by Dow Jones and Nielsen, will be John S. Riccitiello, chief executive of the video game maker Electronic Arts. Interviewed last week, he said the industry was in ''an expanding period, driven by new technology, new platforms'' and wider adoption of broadband. ''Historically those factors have been 5 to 10 times more important than underlying economic trends.''
 Video games, he said, ''may be the great affordable luxury,'' providing more value than TV, movies or a family vacation. ''When consumers cut back, they usually look for something to splurge on,'' he added. ''When I was a kid, in my neighborhood, people may have had pasta with marinara sauce rather than steak, but the treat was chocolate pudding from Jell-O -- because it was cheap,'' said Mr. Riccitiello, 49, who grew up in San Jose, Calif. JANE L. LEVERE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); MISC FOOD MFG (76%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); TRENDS (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (71%); EXECUTIVES (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (53%)

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (83%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN RICCITIELLO (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



493 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1789 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: October 12, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 ITS BOOM LONG PAST, 
 Osaka Sees Hope Fade
 In its heyday, the Airin district of Osaka provided the day laborers for Expo '70, a symbol of postwar Japan's rebirth. But today the work is scant and the work force old, and a grim report by the city government last year said that conditions in Airin were rapidly worsening: an aging population, rising homelessness, deepening poverty and increasing cases of tuberculosis and alcoholism. PAGE 6
 BROKE, BUT CHARMING
 News back home in Iceland is not good; pairing a country's name with the word ''bankruptcy'' does not inspire confidence. But at the United Nations, Iceland is locked in a tight race against Austria and Turkey for two rotating seats reserved for the mostly European bloc on the Security Council. A luncheon spread including Icelandic pancakes folded with berry jam was part of its charm offensive. PAGE 16 
 SABOTAGING LIBERALS
 Last weekend, more than 30 Toronto residents in upper-middle-class neighborhoods awoke to find the brake lines on their cars severed, their telephone and cable television lines cut and political graffiti gouged into automobile paint and scrawled on their homes. The sole link among victims: a lawn sign promoting a Liberal candidate in the Canadian election campaign. PAGE 18
 NATIONAL
 FINANCE STUDENTS
 Remain Optimistic
 Business and finance students at top universities say they are not panicked about their futures and are confident that the financial markets will recover. But some are considering hedging their bets. PAGE 26
 LOOKING FOR RELIEF
 Things have gotten so grim in Elkhart, Ind., that the City Council felt it necessary to limit residents to holding one garage sale a month. Residents are anxiously studying the presidential candidates to determine who offers them the most hope. PAGE 35
 NEW YORK
 A STORY OF MISFORTUNE
 Arrives Early This Year
 It is a familiar story: The electricity is cut off for nonpayment, and a makeshift source of heat and light brings an explosion or fire. It came earlier than usual this year. And it may come more often. From January through September, Orange and Rockland Utilities Inc. turned off power to 23 percent more customers than last year. Our Towns, by Peter Applebome. PAGE 43
 DISCLOSURE HARD TO GET
 A state law requires financial statements from board members of nonprofit organizations that are ''affiliated with, sponsored by or created by a county, city, town or village government.'' But New York City officials have exempted most of the 125 or so nonprofit groups that once looked like they might have to comply. PAGE 43
 SPORTS
 A BASEBALL ARCHITECT
 Specializes in Listening
 Pat Gillick has been the general manager of four teams since 1978, and all have advanced to the league championship series and made multiple playoff appearances. His latest is the Phillies, who have a two-games-to-none lead over the Dodgers in the National League Championship Series. As he prepares to retire after the season, he will leave a legacy of small ego and big success. PAGE 1
 WILDCAT = WILDFIRE
 The New England Patriots and the San Diego Chargers were the first N.F.L. victims of the Wildcat offense, as executed by the Miami Dolphins. It has resulted in a score almost a third of the time the Dolphins have run it, and it is spreading like wildfire. PAGE 1
 ROOTS AS ANCHOR
 Darrelle Revis rose from his rundown hometown, Aliquippa, Pa., to become a shutdown cornerback for the New York Jets. But his success has come not in spite of Aliquippa, but because of it, he says. PAGE 6
 OBITUARIES
 JoRG HAIDER, 58
 A populist Austrian politician known for his strong anti-immigrant and anti-European Union stances, he was most notorious for a series of outrageous statements, including praising the Waffen SS and the employment policies of the Nazi government. PAGE 47
 The Magazine
 15 PERCENT? 20?
 How About None?
 At the Linkery, a hip restaurant in the rapidly gentrifying North Park neighborhood of San Francisco, tipping is strictly forbidden. So who's getting stiffed? PAGE 56
 KOSHER WARS
 An emerging Jewish food movement seeks to expand kosher values to include sustainability and social-justice issues. PAGE 50
 William Safire:
 Helpin's from the 'Hood 18
 Sunday Business
 IN BAILOUT, THE DEVIL IS
 In the Many Details
 The bailout plan that Congress approved is laden with all kinds of vague legislative guidelines, and there are a lot of details that the next Treasury secretary will have to grapple with. Which assets should the government buy? At what prices? And how does one do that while minimizing the conflicts of interest? Alan S. Blinder, Economic View. PAGE 1
 WOOING BACK THE WARY
 At the same moment that the government is being given extraordinary powers to intervene in the financial marketplace, investor and taxpayer trust is at an all-time low. It probably has not helped matters that transparency has not been a priority for Henry Paulson or his partners at the Fed. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. PAGE 1
 Book Review
 STANDING ALONE
 Amid the Rubble
 Goldman Sachs has found itself alone on Wall Street, remaining profitable as its former peers in investment banking either merge or evaporate because of the current financial crisis. Charles D. Ellis, the author of ''The Partnership,'' an immense history of Goldman Sachs, would suggest that this is not an accident. PAGE 19
 AN AMERICAN MOSAIC
 The entries in ''State by State'' form a rousing collection of musings by literary notables about the states from which they hail. They are by turns turn funny, sad and quirky. And some, like Heidi Julavits's description of Maine -- ''just a lot of fat people hanging out in the rain with their cats, drinking coffee brandy and trying, without cheating, to catch a bear'' -- might mean the author may want to hide from the neighbors. PAGE 14
 ARTS & LEISURE
 AGELESS AND DEFIANT,
 AC/DC Back With 'Black'
 Gradually, and without getting much media attention, AC/DC has become the most popular active rock band in the country, to judge by albums sold. And with its new album, ''Black Ice,'' increased visibility for the band's catalog at Wal-Mart and a tour that starts Oct. 28, it's possible AC/DC could sell more CDs over all this year than any other act in pop music. PAGE 1 
 STONE PAINTS BUSH
 The surprise about ''W.'' -- the Oliver Stone portrayal of President George W. Bush that opens on Friday -- is that its left-wing creator made a movie that is not so much operatic or hysterical as utterly plausible, Richard L. Berke writes. PAGE 1 
 UNDERGROUND MOVEMENT
 David Steele and his rotating crew of dancers have held court on New York City's subway cars for nearly 20 years. The dancers are all strong improvisers -- a necessary skill when your stage is a herky-jerky metal box filled with poles and passengers unwilling to cede their ground. PAGE 27
 TRAVEL
 NEW YORK CITY
 On a Budget
 New York has a way of reminding everyone from hourly wage strivers to uptown trust-funders that it is always possible to have more, and to spend more. But big-ticket amusements often obscure the city's more enjoyable corners. New York on a budget of $250 a day. PAGE 1 
 STYLE IN A SEA OF GRIT
 Shiny designer hotels have been popping up in downtown Manhattan with almost improbable frequency. Some of the newest among them are places where you can get up close to a gritty neighborhood, but still order a pomegranate martini. PAGE 3 
 Calm, Just Up the Hudson 5 
 Notables on Their New York 3
 Sunday Styles
 PLEASE STEP AWAY
 From the Horse Race
 A Massachusetts woman dreams she is having cocktails with Nancy Pelosi, and grilling her on the economy. A songwriter wakes up in the middle of the night to check in on the Asian markets. A Brooklyn accountant is mortified when her 5-year-old says ''I'm John McCain, and I approve this message,'' to no one in particular. Red flags for obsession with the news, perhaps. But there are so many outlets and it's increasingly easy to plug in. PAGE 1 
 WHAT DO YOU MEAN 'NO'?
 As the economy teeters, parents who are used to acquiescing and indulging their child's every consumerist whim are being forced to rein in their spending. That makes for some very uncomfortable conversations with their teenagers, who are trying to keep up with their peers. PAGE 1
 Automobiles
 THE 'VETTE'S MAKEOVER
 Corvette devotees refer ominously to the demands of something called ''the lifestyle,'' and the car's would-be owners are often scared off by its aging adult-film-star vibe. And so, the Chevrolet Corvette ZR1, the most powerful production car G.M. has ever built, features some significant tweaks meant to address its image problem. PAGE 1 (Page 10 in Business in some copies)
 Week in Review
 ONCE MORE,
 A Laurel Not Bestowed
 While American theater and fiction have a few Nobel laureates, not a single Nobel Prize in Literature has been given to an American poet in more than 100 years. It's a misfortune shared by English-language poetry in general, as only five poets from the English-speaking world have pleased the Swedes. PAGE 2
 END OF AN AMERICAN ERA
 Peer Steinbruck, the German finance minister, said that the United States would cede its position as the world's economic superpower, and David Leonhardt writes that the remark is not just nationalist bluster. PAGE 1
 Editorial
 THE LEARNING CURVE
 We have heard enough to know that there are big differences between John McCain and Barack Obama. We have also heard enough to know that Mr. Obama promises a much more robust and adventurous approach to the two big energy-related problems of the age: oil dependency and climate change. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 McCain's campaign has crossed the line between tough negative campaigning and inciting vigilantism. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 MAUREEN DOWD
 A Latinist translates the American Empire's decline into Rome. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 You cannot sweet-talk the market into going up or beg it not to go down. It's going to do whatever it's going to do -- whichever way greed and fear tug it. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 Some Times readers are not happy with the newspaper's coverage of the presidential campaign, arguing that it overplays conflict and underplays the important issues of the day and what the candidates would do about them, if elected. The Public Editor looks into the question. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 FROM PANIC, SELF-RELIANCE
 In Op-Ed articles, the literary critic Harold Bloom and the writer Richard Dooling assess how financial panic and artificial intelligence affected the philosophies of such diverse thinkers as Ralph Waldo Emerson, Freeman Dyson and the Unabomber. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 12

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); AGING TRENDS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (62%); BASEBALL (60%); AGING (56%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

COMPANY: ORANGE & ROCKLAND UTILITIES INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSAKA, JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); ICELAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



494 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths POLOKOFF, KENNETH A.

 BODY:
 POLOKOFF--Kenneth A., 60 of Boca Raton, FL passed away August 31st. Born October 19, 1947 in Brooklyn, NY he graduated Midwood HS and Brooklyn College with a BA degree in Economics. He attended Baruch College from 69-74 completing 30 credits towards his MBA. 
Ken had over a 40 year career on Wall Street as a Corporate Bonds Trader and Sr. Vice President of Corporate Bonds. Ken had many interests in the Arts and Theatre, Social Outreach, Public Education and Sports. He was on the Board of Directors for the Arts and Business Council of NYC, National Improvisational Theatre, Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts at Brooklyn College, Vineyard Theatre (New York) Actor's Theatre of Nantucket and Central Unitarian Church. He was also a member of the UU All Souls Fellowship, NYC, UU Church of the Palisades, Englewood, NJ and the UU fellowship of Boca Raton, FL. In 1968 Ken married Patricia Polokoff, Pine Bush, NY and had two daughters, Penny Polokoff - Zakarin, Boynton Beach, FL and Joely Polokoff, Sebring, FL and two stepsons, Glen Polokoff, Otisville, NY and Stuart Polokoff, East Rockaway, NY. In 1988 he married Karen Topol of Boca Raton, FL and raised his son, Dylan Topol, Boca Raton, FL and daughter, Virginia Lockwood Zisa, Lagrangeville, NY. Ken had six grandchildren. Ken was an avid golfer and enjoyed Pilates with his partner, Bryna Cain, Boca Raton, FL. Ken is survived by his mother Mildred Polokoff, Brooklyn, NY, two nieces, Cheryl and Beth Spinner, New York, NY, an Aunt and many cousins. Ken was predeceased by his father, Jack Polokoff, stepmother, Sylvia Polokoff, Brooklyn, NY, and sister, Nancy Spinner, New Brunswick, NJ. Two memorial services will be held for Ken; Sunday, October 19th 4:30pm --Unitarian Universalist Fellowship, Boca Raton, FL. Tuesday, October 21st 6:00pm --Unitarian Universalist All Souls Fellowship of NYC. Ken was an organ donor and requested to be cremated. Ken's family requests that in lieu of flowers, please honor his memory by making a contribution to the Brain Aneurysm Foundation; www.bafound.org. An endowment fund will be started in his name. For further information, please contact Joely Polokoff at bigsmile@pipeline.com or 516-996-2666. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); THEATER (90%); BONDS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); STEPPARENTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



495 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE FOOD ISSUE; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 3586 words

HEADLINE: A Catfish By Any Other Name

BYLINE: By PAUL GREENBERG. 
Paul Greenberg is a W. K. Kellogg Foundation food- and society policy fellow. His book on the future of fish will be published by Penguin Press.

 BODY:
RECENTLY I MET Roger Barlow, the president of the Catfish Institute in Jackson, Miss., for a catfish lunch. Plates of blackened catfish Caesar salad, catfish in a crawfish etouffee and Southern-fried catfish lay between us, as did a P.R. folder embossed with the phrase ''U.S. Farm-raised Catfish: Safety You Can Trust.'' As the North American catfish's principal advocate, Barlow wanted to focus on the positive. He described how U.S. catfish adhered to the world's toughest quality standards; how, in their farm-raised form, catfish weren't scavengers, as in nature, but rather sweet-tasting surface-feeders, raised in well water and fattened on corn and soy. But by and by our discussion reached a point at which Barlow revealed some impending changes. Very soon U.S. farm-raised catfish, some of it anyway, would not be called catfish.
'The name we have chosen, and the name we have market-tested,'' he said, pausing slightly, ''is Delacata.'' Delacata, he explained, was going to be a specially filleted Grade-A piece of the best of the farmed North American channel catfish. It was being tested at high-end bistros in California, and the ''Iron Chef America'' judge Cat Cora had signed on to endorse it. 
The rollout of Delacata should have been the 40-year-old catfish industry's transcendental moment, marking catfish's transformation from a poor subsistence food to America's most commercially successful farmed fish. But on this blistering summer afternoon it seemed more like the North American catfish's last stand. About a third of the region's growers have quit, and those remaining increasingly see their ponds as liabilities. If attrition continues apace, very little catfish will be farmed in the United States before long.
The ostensible reason for the industry's collapse is last year's doubling of feed and fuel prices. But as one farmer put it, the cost increases are just the ''knockout punch.'' Why North American catfish hit the ropes in the first place and why some catfish might not be called catfish anymore cut to the heart of the American food system's viability. For Delacata is not just about getting a higher price to compensate for higher costs; it is about America's ability to protect its food production and regulation from an emergent Asia.
''In the struggle for survival,'' Charles Darwin famously wrote, ''the fittest win out at the expense of their rivals because they succeed in adapting themselves best to their environment.'' The channel catfish has unquestionably adapted well to the environment farmers provided for it. Fast-growing and hardy, it eats everything and comes to market with little fuss. But not long ago, another fish arrived, threatening the once-profitable symbiosis of North American farmer and North American catfish. You have probably eaten this fish, but you don't know its name. It was once called ''catfish'' (and many other names -- some of them unprintable). Nowadays, when it is sold in America, it is often simply called ''fish.'' Let me introduce you. It makes its home in the waters of Southeast Asia. You can call it Pangasius.
VO THANH KHON leads me through a sparkling industrial park in Can Tho City, Vietnam. Palm trees and tropical shrubbery rise gracefully along the path with magenta 9-o'clock flowers blooming throughout. Khon, a pleasant man in a pressed white shirt, stretches out his hand.
''You are looking at our virtue,'' he says.
After a quick speedboat ride across the Mekong River, Khon directs me to a square pond. On Khon's signal, a boatman shovels dime-size pellets into the water. A few dimples dot the surface. A splash here and there. Then, as if the entire pond is moving to engulf the skiff, the water erupts into a froth, drenching the boatman and showering those of us on shore. The pond is almost more fish than water. Two-foot-long creatures, gray on top, white on bottom, with faces resembling a slightly dimwitted ''Star Wars'' character, interlock and wriggle. Appraising the fish, you might feel that the motto for Bianfishco, the company for which Khon works -- ''Pangasius is our nature''-- is slightly creepy. Khon smiles broadly, though, for the roaring of the feeding frenzy is literally the sound of money earning interest.
The fish in Khon's pond are known internationally by their genus, Pangasius, and locally as tra. Near the top of the taxonomic chart, they share an order with North American channel catfish, Siluriformes, and Vietnamese exporters once sold tra in American stores under that reassuringly familiar appellation. But while both fish have whiskers and white flesh, many epochs separate their evolutionary divergence. In land-animal terms, calling tra and their American cousins both ''catfish'' would be similar to affixing the label ''hoofed mammal'' to all the different red meat we eat. True, American consumers probably don't care all that much about taxonomy. They do, however, care about brands. And since with fish the species name is the brand, fortunes are at risk when names go astray.
If Vietnamese growers can be believed, tra may be the most efficient way on earth to make animal protein. It takes three acres of grazing land to grow a single 700-pound cow. That same land, flooded and turned over to channel catfish ponds will generate 25,000 pounds of catfish. But in Vietnam, those three acres will bring in up to 1 million pounds of tra. The question that fish farmers outside of Southeast Asia ask is whether the Vietnamese are competing on a level playing field. And if not, they wonder, are the Vietnamese grabbing up huge swaths of the global white-fish market at the expense of environmental and consumer safety?
These suspicions begin with the very beginning of the man-Pangasius relationship. To illustrate, it's worth repeating a joke my translator told me:
Question: ''How do you tell farmed and wild fish apart?''
Answer: ''The farmed fish is cross-eyed from staring up at the outhouse.''
Though they are today raised like most farmed fish, Pangasius's domestication did start under the privy. After they were introduced by peasants into their ''latrine ponds,'' Pangasius rooted around in, well, let's call it ''decaying organic matter,'' to obtain their fodder. When large enough, the fish were sold domestically on the Mekong's floating markets.
This was the state of things in Vietnam. But ethnic Vietnamese living in exile in central Cambodia took a different approach. Using cages suspended below floating houseboats on Cambodia's Great Lake, or Tonle Sap, they fed their fish a cleaner diet of rice bran and fish meal. Initially, a relative of tra called basa looked like the ''it'' fish. It had low oxygen demands. And farmers found that when they were fed a proper diet, they grew quickly and had white flesh instead of the yellow-green color they had in the latrine-pond environment.
But basa's pre-eminence was short-lived. When wars in Cambodia forced ethnic Vietnamese to return to Vietnam, they found they needed to modify their techniques. While basa can tolerate low oxygen levels, they would suffer at the intense stocking densities Vietnamese farmers demanded. Tra, meanwhile, didn't mind the close quarters. The only thing they would do differently when high densities reduced oxygen too far was to occasionally rise to the surface and stick their alien-looking mouths above the surface.
Tra, it turned out, can breathe air.
CATFISH ISN'T THE first product from Asia to spark emotional trade disputes. But unlike the public hood-bashing that autoworkers dealt an unwitting Japanese car in 1992, what came to be known in the American South as ''the catfish wars'' simmered out of sight, a resentment that finally boiled up out of the very bottom of America's economy.
Greensboro, Ala., is in the heart of the Black Belt, a region of dark soil and extreme poverty that overlaps with catfish country from the Carolinas into East Texas. Approaching Greensboro from the south, the signs of deprivation are apparent. A collapsed building spilling out its contents onto the intersection of Route 61 and U.S. Highway 80 shows no signs of impending repair, and a ministry's roadside sign nearby advises, ''Wife Abuse Is Not a Way of Conveying Love.''
The land, too, is troubled. Fields of soy and corn strobe by as does light, fertile soil and the dark, rich-looking ''gumbo'' that was often sold to unsuspecting carpetbaggers. It is gumbo land that set the conditions for catfish farming, for unlike the productive Midwestern loam it resembles, gumbo is mostly clay. It is practically watertight, though -- excellent for a catfish pond. And local farmers benefited handsomely as a result. After prices for corn and soy plunged during the anti-Soviet grain embargo of the late 1970s, catfish ponds became a financial salvation -- a third leg to stand on after soy and corn were kicked away.
But when Pangasius arrived in America at the end of the century, that leg proved wobbly. Both channel catfish and Pangasius are cheap fish. Before they shared a supermarket aisle, channel catfish were mostly eaten by low-income families in the American South, while Pangasius fed socialist workers in floundering late-Communist economies. By the time these two cheap fish met in the United States, the contender from Southeast Asia had developed an ability to duck under even rock-bottom prices. Pangasius can be raised in much higher densities than North American channel catfish, and they grow faster in Vietnam's winterless, tropical climate. Coupled with cheap Vietnamese labor -- a fraction of the already low costs of the American South -- Pangasius sold for a dollar a pound less than channel catfish. There was also at the time of Pangasius's arrival no country-of-origin requirements in food labeling. Consumers couldn't tell a Pangasius from a channel catfish even if they wanted to.
Pangasius also benefited from American catfish's vulnerability to something called ''off-flavor.'' Off-flavor happens when blue-green algae predominate in stagnant freshwater and emit geosim -- a harmless, muddy-tasting compound that passes easily into fish flesh. Since U.S. environmental regulations limit the amount of water that can be discharged, algal blooms are common, and catfish occasionally get that geosim taste.
Vietnamese farmers on the Mekong avoid the problem of off-flavor altogether. Lax laws allow them to refresh ponds and discharge wastewater directly into the Mekong River, and a result is fewer problems with off-flavor. And while this might translate into worse environmental conditions for the Mekong, it can mean a more consistent product that large retailers appreciate.
Exposing this inequity was just one of several fronts American catfish farmers opened up against the Vietnamese in the trade war to follow. They accused (justifiably, it turned out) Vietnamese growers of using carcinogenic fungicides and antibiotics banned in the United States to get higher yields from their ponds. They claimed that the Vietnamese were ''dumping'' catfish on the American market, that is, selling them below fair market value, something the Vietnamese vehemently deny. It was the dumping issue that had the most traction when the battle went to the U.S. Department of Commerce in 2002. American catfish farmers filed an ''antidumping'' petition against Pangasius producers, demanding tariffs of up to 60 percent to balance out the ''dumping margin'' -- the difference between the price of the fish in the Vietnamese market and the price in the U.S. market. They also had opened up a legislative debate at the highest level. Earlier, in 2001, they persuaded a group of Southern senators to introduce amendments to the agriculture appropriations bill that would prohibit Vietnamese catfish from being called catfish.
Despite the concerns about the safety of Pangasius, free traders took that fish's side, none more stridently than John McCain, who claimed that ''Americans like to eat them.'' A champion of normalizing relations with Vietnam, McCain attacked the taxonomic revisionism with vigor. ''With a clever trick of Latin phraseology,'' McCain railed, ''these Southern Senators single-handedly undercut American trade policy in a troubling example of the very parochialism we have urged the Vietnamese government to abandon. . . . Vietnamese catfish are no different than American catfish by nutritional and safety standards, but they are different in the eyes of the large, wealthy agribusinesses on whose behalf this provision was slipped into the agriculture appropriations bill.''
Against McCain's wishes, the Southern senators won out, and later U.S. farmers won their antidumping petition. Pangasius were thence forward to be called basa or tra with tariffs added to their price. The Vietnamese invasion was stopped cold, and the North American catfish was saved. For the moment.
IN CHAU DOC, a statue of two intertwined Pangasius greets the traveler heading toward Cambodia into the heart of fish-farming country. For those who have traveled the Communist world, the statue is oddly familiar. With its kitschy silver glitter and bold futurist outline, it recalls the gigantic monuments to the Soviet space program.
Such is the importance of Pangasius in Vietnam. When the United States implemented its catfish rulings, it was as if Apollo had shut the hatch on Soyuz. A farmer shoveling feed pellets into the hole in her houseboat floor was still distraught when I raised the issue this summer. ''The American people are O.K.,'' she said, ''but the American government. . . .'' She broke off with a shake of her head.
But some here see the catfish wars as a boon. Flavio Corsin is one such individual. A tall, loping Italian hailing from the trout-growing region near Venice, Corsin is working with the World Wildlife Fund to establish international quality standards for Pangasius through an initiative called the Aquaculture Dialogues.
As someone with an intimate feel for Vietnamese culture (he did his dissertation in a Vietnamese village and learned the language by ear), Corsin says he thinks the trade war changed things. ''In Vietnam, there is a lot of public soul-searching when something goes wrong,'' he told me. ''They always say: 'Come here whenever you want. Tell us how we can improve.' ''
Following the collapse of the American market, Vietnam scrambled for an alternative. Europe was the perfect fit. Europeans had already invested heavily in Vietnam's economic redevelopment, some of it in aquaculture (the scientist who unlocked the hormonal secrets of breeding Pangasius in captivity is a Frenchman). News of overfishing had also made Europeans wary of wild-caught white fish like cod and sole.
The Vietnamese had also learned a lesson about product misrepresentation. Pangasius quickly undercut European trout and sea-bass farmers just as it did U.S. catfish growers, but it did so under its own name. Le Panga has been a market phenomenon in France; in other E.U. nations, it is sold under similar derivatives of its Latin name. The lack of negative association, the neutral taste and above all the extremely low price has made it a Continental staple. A recent Michael Moore-ish documentary, ''Qu'est-ce que c'est qu'un Panga?'' (''What is a Panga?''), has had no effect. In the last few years, European demand has helped raise Pangasius production to more than two billion pounds a year -- a nearly tenfold increase in the last decade. Even as Vietnamese have found themselves largely shut out of the American market, they have prospered elsewhere.
Vietnamese regulators also came to understand that conforming to Western food-safety standards (or at least appearing to conform) was vital. There is no international standard for farmed fish. In Vietnam alone, several international organizations are trying to develop guidelines. But the sheer number of small producers spread out along the Mekong presents particular challenges.
''When I go to Europe, I try to explain that you cannot manage food safety in developing countries the way you manage it in Europe,'' Flavio Corsin told me. ''Italy, for example, is based on individual farm inspection. Here, with so many producers, you would need an army of inspectors to do the same job.'' The food-safety option Corsin advocates is something called ''Internal Control Systems,'' or I.C.S., in which international organizations train local farming cooperatives to inspect themselves. And while the I.C.S. method recalls the Roman poet Juvenal's warning -- ''Who watches the watchers?'' -- Corsin says he feels that the Vietnamese are mature enough now to watch themselves because the industry is participating in the development of the standards. ''You have to identify the 20 percent of producers that are doing the best and make them make the standards,'' he said. ''That way you can create the means to getting these practices adopted industrywide.'' American catfish farmers were approached by the World Wildlife Foundation to participate in setting standards, but they have generally refused. ''We have adhered to the highest standards for years,'' the Catfish Institute's Roger Barlow told me, ''and we don't want to be lumped together with an inferior product.''
It appears that the Vietnamese standards practices are having an effect. Since I.C.S. procedures were implemented in Vietnam, the Food and Drug Administration has found no violations in Vietnamese Pangasius. Individual Vietnamese farmers are now lobbying to repeal the punitive U.S. tariffs, some of them successfully. Nowadays when Pangasius does make it to American consumers, it is often presented as just ''fish'' at hospitals and other large institutions or, sometimes, under the names of more expensive fish, like grouper.
IF THERE IS one point of common ground for Vietnamese and American fish farmers, it is a dread of the world's largest aquaculturist: China. Chinese researchers now travel the world in search of species that will thrive on their own farms and have developed aquaculture programs for both North American channel catfish and Vietnamese Pangasius. Here, all questions of names and standards crumble under China's drive to sell at the cheapest price. Farmers of Thai shrimp, South American tilapia and even Louisiana crawfish have all watched their markets evaporate when Beijing alights. As Barlow puts it, ''China's is an economic model of creative destruction.''
China's presence lobs a new grenade into the catfish name war. Today, only channel catfish and other members of the North American fish family Ictaluridae can be called ''catfish'' in the United States. But no law says those Ictaluridae have to live in America. China can therefore keep North American channel catfish in Chinese ponds and sell them to America as catfish for less than what it costs Americans to grow them. And while American law requires a package of Chinese catfish to say ''product of China,'' it will often be described on the same package as ''Cajun'' in much larger type.
There is an added problem with Chinese-American catfish. Last year, after detecting malachite green and crystal violet, both carcinogens, as well as an anthrax-fighting antibiotic, the F.D.A. put an import alert on all Chinese catfish. The F.D.A. however, is considering lifting the import once a third-party Chinese certifier is approved. Curiously, the third-party under consideration is an agency of the government of China.+
Infuriated American catfish growers have asked for more government intervention. In the farm bill passed this year, catfish were put under the Food Safety and Inspection Service, a subdivision of the Agriculture Department that is separate from the F.D.A. and provides an extra layer of regulation. The reason? Foreign exporters making products that fall within the inspection-service dossier must meet similar standards as United States producers. The Chinese and other producers will have to come into compliance by December 2009.
Vietnam, meanwhile, a victor in real wars against both America and China, is unflinching. ''China is starting to farm tra,'' Nguyen Van Hao, a founder of the Vietnamese Pangasius program, told me just before I left Ho Chi Minh City. ''We cannot say no. But we have great production here, and with better technology, maybe our yields will be even higher.'' Not only are Vietnamese now selectively breeding tra; they have even begun a hybridization program to cross tra with the endangered giant Mekong catfish -- an animal that grows more than 10 feet long and can weigh half a ton.
American farmers, too, are trying out new crosses. A channel and blue catfish cross is particularly promising. But it is the new name Delacata that many hope will end the time of catfish troubles. Delacata is, like Pangasius, a name with no pejorative associations. And now, after eight years of catfish wars, disassociation is obligatory. As Jon Stamell, a marketing consultant who was contracted briefly by the Vietnamese government to rebrand Pangasius, said, ''All of this fighting and disagreeing over a product puts out a negative message to the consumer, and this has a way of doubling back on you.'' When I asked Stamell what he thought of the name Delacata, he paused. ''Hmm,'' he said, ''sounds like a car.''
American catfish advocates, meanwhile, are driving forward. ''I hear Delacata's really taking off,'' the celebrity chef Cat Cora told me recently, not long after renewing her endorsement contract with the Catfish Institute. ''I'd like to see it as a secret ingredient on 'Iron Chef.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JUMPIN': Tra, distant relatives of the American catfish, at the Bianfishco fish farm in Can Tho, Vietnam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUIDO MOCAFICO)(MM72 and MM73)
 LET THEM EAT TRA: European demand has helped raise tra production to more more than two billion pounds a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUIDO MOCAFICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, BASED ON ROBERT MAPPLETHORPE'S ' 'FISH' ' ( 1985))(MM76 and MM77) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY HAPPYPETS)(MM74, MM75, and MM77) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUACULTURE (90%); FISHES (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); AGRICULTURE (74%); TEST MARKETING (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); ASIA (77%); VIET NAM (65%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



496 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: LOCAVORISM

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
Send comments and suggestions to: safireonlanguage@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LIKE MANY OF US (a smarmily folksy phrase used by demagogues), at breakfast I breeze through the editorial pages of several newspapers and then focus on the newsworthy information on the packages of cereal, milk and juice.
 Headline type on some orange-juice cartons these days smites the consumer with the words ''Home Squeezed.'' That product claim is puzzling; certainly the juice wasn't squeezed in my home. Could it be that instead of being squeezed in some vast, impersonal factory, thousands of miles away, the juice was lovingly squeezed by hand in the nearby individual homes of thousands of orange pickers? 
 I checked with the product manager at Florida's Natural of Lake Wales, Fla., a division of Citrus World Inc., to pose the question: In whose ''home'' had my orange juice been squeezed? As a professional alarmist, I had visions of a farmhand, half a fruit in his fist, grinding away at a green glass juicer in a broken-down shack on the edge of alligator-infested Everglades. 
 ''When you squeeze oranges at home,'' replied Nikki Black, the friendly manager at Florida's Natural fresh and unfrozen headquarters, ''you get more pulp. We use 'home squeezed' to differentiate between our pulpy product and our nonpulp juice.''
 I get it; the meaning of home-squeezed is not ''squeezed at home,'' as a lexicographer might assume from the inexplicably unhyphenated compound adjective; instead, the selling phrase means only ''squeezed as if you had squeezed it in your own home.'' Only the consumer-cognoscenti are expected to know that, as you and I now do.
 The reason for beating that juicy subject to a pulp today is to illustrate the hunger of the food industry to get on the ''local is best'' bandwagon. No longer is the exotic product of a foreign land the object of the gourmand's desire; indeed, arugula -- the pungent, purple-veined, edible leaves of the Mediterranean annual herb of the mustard family -- has become a symbol of culinary elitism, replacing the brie and Chablis of yesteryear. (When Barack Obama asked an Iowa crowd, ''Anybody gone into Whole Foods lately and see what they charge for arugula?'' The Washington Post compared that with Michael Dukakis's suggestion in his 1988 campaign that Midwest farmers diversify by raising endive; Obama has been munching good ol' local lettuce ever since.)
 As the economy began its downturn last year and imports became more expensive, localness challenged cleanliness as being next to godliness in the food dodge. The lust for the local is even competing with organic -- food grown or raised without a chemical assist but often transported around the world -- and Wal-Mart, having joined the organic parade two years ago, is now touting its purchases of produce grown in-state near its supercenters. 
 Naturally, a name was needed to describe the new anti-exoticism. The word locavore was coined in 2005 on the analogy of carnivore, ''flesh eater'' (which most dictionaries prefer to ''meat eater'' because the Latin caro is translated as ''flesh,'' but nobody eats fattening flesh these days), and herbivore, ''plant eater.'' The suffix -vorous means ''eating, devouring'' and spawned the adjective ''voracious.''
 The coiner is Jessica Prentice, who had left a job at the Ferry Plaza Farmers Market in San Francisco to write a book about ''food and the hunger for connection.'' While working on that, she decided to urge people in the Bay Area to eat local food for a month; Olivia Wu, a food writer for The Chronicle, challenged her to come up with a name for what Prentice had been calling the nearby foodshed, I presume on the analogy of ''watershed.'' She promptly melded the Latin locus, ''place,'' with vorare, ''swallow, devour'' and (gulp!) there was locavore, the noun that became the Oxford American Dictionary's word of the year for 2007. 
 ''The Rise of the 'Locavore' '' was a Business Week headline this spring about the spread of farmers' markets: ''Consumers increasingly are seeking out the flavors of fresh, vine-ripened foods grown on local farms rather than those trucked to supermarkets from faraway lands.'' Name of the trend in a recent review in The New York Sun, which lamentably set last month: locavorism. 
 The trend was confirmed in a macabre New Yorker cartoon last month by Bruce Eric Kaplan. A man-eating shark, munching on a human arm, says to another shark, ''I'm trying to eat more locals.'' 
 Supernutraceuticals
 ''It's a curd; it's a grain; it's superfood!''
 As a word, superfood was introduced in 1915 in The Daily Gleaner, of Kingston, Jamaica, as a description of wine. After nearly a century in desuetude, it popped up again to denote a type of offbeat food loaded with vitamins and minerals, an antidote to Frankenfoods, those genetically modified meats and plants named after the misunderstood monster's creator. Elite lips were smacked over pomegranate, a favorite fruit in biblical times, as well as a Brazilian berry named acai (pronounced ah-sigh-EE), chock full of beneficial fatty acids, amino acids and fiber. Sprinkled over a whole-grain bowl of amaranth, millet, quinoa and teff, the nourishing berry may soon be produced in your local rainforest. 
 But then the contrarian anti-antioxident crowd had its say, and superfood is having to compete with nutraceuticals. This word, coined in 1990 by the foundationik Stephen DeFelice, is a portmanteau of nutrition and pharmaceutical, and also goes by the names of functional food and pharmafood. It began with garlic pills and cranberry capsules and has now moved up to other natural additives like taste-free anchovy paste in orange juice (home-squeezed, of course, at the fish market), powdered beets in apple butter and green-tea extract in ginger ale.
 In the additive-happy land of Big Nutra, food is not truly edible until it is fortified or enriched, preferably by community pharmacists and neighborhood nutritionists. To paraphrase the cartoonist Jules Feiffer, I'm still hungry, but I have a great vocabulary. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (LETTERING BY ALBERTO SEVESO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); CHEESE (77%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (77%); FARM LABOR (71%)

COMPANY: CITRUS WORLD INC (70%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2037 FROZEN FRUITS, FRUIT JUICES, & VEGETABLES (70%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



497 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Up and Down the Learning Curve

 BODY:
The cramped rules of the presidential debates and the McCain campaign's descent into content-free name-calling mean that voters are unlikely to hear the serious debate about energy issues they need and deserve.
 Still, we have heard enough to know that there are big differences between John McCain and Barack Obama. We have also heard enough to know that Mr. Obama promises a much more robust and adventurous approach to the two big energy-related problems of the age: oil dependency and climate change.
 Mr. Obama also keeps moving up the learning curve on energy issues, whereas Mr. McCain seems to regress. This is important because energy problems are varied and complex, and solving them will require leaders with restless curiosity and an open mind. 
 Not too long ago, Mr. Obama seemed infatuated with the environmentally risky idea of converting coal to gasoline. He dropped it when scientists pointed out that unless ways could be found to capture the carbon emissions, the conversion process would add to global warming. As recently as two months ago, Mr. Obama was pandering to voters with short-term fixes for gas prices like tapping the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. 
 His present strategy is coherent and farsighted. Mr. Obama says he would limit carbon emissions with a strong cap and trade program, invest heavily in alternative energy sources, raise federal fuel-economy standards and require that 10 percent of America's energy be generated by renewable sources by 2012. He would help Detroit develop more fuel-efficient cars with loans and tax credits, and -- to the annoyance of some environmentalists -- he rightly includes nuclear energy as part of the mix. 
 In last week's debate, Mr. McCain said airily that he would do ''all of the above.'' But within minutes he had reaffirmed that the centerpiece of his strategy is to drill for more oil, mainly in previously off-limits areas of the outer continental shelf. 
 This politically seductive idea is flawed on three counts. It will not provide short-term relief to gas prices. It will make a minimal long-term contribution to America's energy needs. And it ignores a fundamental truth that Mr. Obama confronted squarely in the debate: a nation using one-fourth of the world's oil production while owning only 3 percent of the world's reserves cannot drill its way to energy independence. 
 Mr. McCain's other big idea -- nuclear power -- also promises too much. Both candidates agree that because nuclear power is carbon-neutral it has to be part of any serious effort to reduce global warming. But in the debate Mr. McCain glossed over formidable problems of cost, safety and waste disposal, meanwhile suggesting that the public was clamoring for nuclear power and that dozens of plants could pop up practically overnight.
 The old John McCain -- the McCain who pressed to sharply increase fuel efficiency, the early and brave advocate of putting a price on carbon emissions -- has all but disappeared from view. 
 The saddest evidence of that was his choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate. Astonishingly, he claims that Ms. Palin ''knows more about energy than probably anyone in the United States,'' and if Ms. Palin is to be believed, he has more or less anointed her as his energy czar.
 Ms. Palin's strategy is frighteningly simplistic: drill for more oil. Any doubt on that score was erased in the vice presidential debate, when she delightedly corrected Senator Joseph Biden about the party's new slogan. He had complained that the Republicans stood for ''drill, drill, drill.'' No, she said, it's ''drill, baby, drill.'' 
 It is true that nearly every Alaska politician likes to drill for oil; it is the source of much of the state's income. But no other Alaska politician is this close to the presidency. Meanwhile, Ms. Palin continues to express doubts about the human causes of climate change. Her insistence, in the debate, that she didn't ''want to argue about the causes'' was also alarming. 
 Unless we recognize the human causes of climate change, the essential changes in the way this country and others produce and consume energy are unlikely to happen. The old, pre-Sarah-Palin, John McCain knew that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); MINING OUTPUT (73%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



498 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: The Terrorist Barack Hussein Obama

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
IF you think way back to the start of this marathon campaign, back when it seemed preposterous that any black man could be a serious presidential contender, then you remember the biggest fear about Barack Obama: a crazy person might take a shot at him.
 Some voters told reporters that they didn't want Obama to run, let alone win, should his very presence unleash the demons who have stalked America from Lincoln to King. After consultation with Congress, Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, gave Obama a Secret Service detail earlier than any presidential candidate in our history -- in May 2007, some eight months before the first Democratic primaries. 
 ''I've got the best protection in the world, so stop worrying,'' Obama reassured his supporters. Eventually the country got conditioned to his appearing in large arenas without incident (though I confess that the first loud burst of fireworks at the end of his convention stadium speech gave me a start). In America, nothing does succeed like success. The fear receded. 
 Until now. At McCain-Palin rallies, the raucous and insistent cries of ''Treason!'' and ''Terrorist!'' and ''Kill him!'' and ''Off with his head!'' as well as the uninhibited slinging of racial epithets, are actually something new in a campaign that has seen almost every conceivable twist. They are alarms. Doing nothing is not an option.
 All's fair in politics. John McCain and Sarah Palin have every right to bring up William Ayers, even if his connection to Obama is minor, even if Ayers's Weather Underground history dates back to Obama's childhood, even if establishment Republicans and Democrats alike have collaborated with the present-day Ayers in educational reform. But it's not just the old Joe McCarthyesque guilt-by-association game, however spurious, that's going on here. Don't for an instant believe the many mindlessly ''even-handed'' journalists who keep saying that the McCain campaign's use of Ayers is the moral or political equivalent of the Obama campaign's hammering on Charles Keating. 
 What makes them different, and what has pumped up the Weimar-like rage at McCain-Palin rallies, is the violent escalation in rhetoric, especially (though not exclusively) by Palin. Obama ''launched his political career in the living room of a domestic terrorist.'' He is ''palling around with terrorists'' (note the plural noun). Obama is ''not a man who sees America the way you and I see America.'' Wielding a wildly out-of-context Obama quote, Palin slurs him as an enemy of American troops. 
 By the time McCain asks the crowd ''Who is the real Barack Obama?'' it's no surprise that someone cries out ''Terrorist!'' The rhetorical conflation of Obama with terrorism is complete. It is stoked further by the repeated invocation of Obama's middle name by surrogates introducing McCain and Palin at these rallies. This sleight of hand at once synchronizes with the poisonous Obama-is-a-Muslim e-mail blasts and shifts the brand of terrorism from Ayers's Vietnam-era variety to the radical Islamic threats of today.
 That's a far cry from simply accusing Obama of being a guilty-by-association radical leftist. Obama is being branded as a potential killer and an accessory to past attempts at murder. ''Barack Obama's friend tried to kill my family'' was how a McCain press release last week packaged the remembrance of a Weather Underground incident from 1970 -- when Obama was 8. 
 We all know what punishment fits the crime of murder, or even potential murder, if the security of post-9/11 America is at stake. We all know how self-appointed ''patriotic'' martyrs always justify taking the law into their own hands.
 Obama can hardly be held accountable for Ayers's behavior 40 years ago, but at least McCain and Palin can try to take some responsibility for the behavior of their own supporters in 2008. What's troubling here is not only the candidates' loose inflammatory talk but also their refusal to step in promptly and strongly when someone responds to it with bloodthirsty threats in a crowded arena. Joe Biden had it exactly right when he expressed concern last week that ''a leading American politician who might be vice president of the United States would not just stop midsentence and turn and condemn that.'' To stay silent is to pour gas on the fires.
 It wasn't always thus with McCain. In February he loudly disassociated himself from a speaker who brayed ''Barack Hussein Obama'' when introducing him at a rally in Ohio. Now McCain either backpedals with tardy, pro forma expressions of respect for his opponent or lets second-tier campaign underlings release boilerplate disavowals after ugly incidents like the chilling Jim Crow-era flashback last week when a Florida sheriff ranted about ''Barack Hussein Obama'' at a Palin rally while in full uniform. 
 From the start, there have always been two separate but equal questions about race in this election. Is there still enough racism in America to prevent a black man from being elected president no matter what? And, will Republicans play the race card? The jury is out on the first question until Nov. 4. But we now have the unambiguous answer to the second: Yes.
 McCain, who is no racist, turned to this desperate strategy only as Obama started to pull ahead. The tone was set at the Republican convention, with Rudy Giuliani's mocking dismissal of Obama as an ''only in America'' affirmative-action baby. We also learned then that the McCain campaign had recruited as a Palin handler none other than Tucker Eskew, the South Carolina consultant who had worked for George W. Bush in the notorious 2000 G.O.P. primary battle where the McCains and their adopted Bangladeshi daughter were slimed by vicious racist rumors.
 No less disconcerting was a still-unexplained passage of Palin's convention speech: Her use of an unattributed quote praising small-town America (as opposed to, say, Chicago and its community organizers) from Westbrook Pegler, the mid-century Hearst columnist famous for his anti-Semitism, racism and violent rhetorical excess. After an assassin tried to kill F.D.R. at a Florida rally and murdered Chicago's mayor instead in 1933, Pegler wrote that it was ''regrettable that Giuseppe Zangara shot the wrong man.'' In the '60s, Pegler had a wish for Bobby Kennedy: ''Some white patriot of the Southern tier will spatter his spoonful of brains in public premises before the snow falls.''
 This is the writer who found his way into a speech by a potential vice president at a national political convention. It's astonishing there's been no demand for a public accounting from the McCain campaign. Imagine if Obama had quoted a Black Panther or Louis Farrakhan -- or William Ayers -- in Denver.
 The operatives who would have Palin quote Pegler have been at it ever since. A key indicator came two weeks after the convention, when the McCain campaign ran its first ad tying Obama to the mortgage giant Fannie Mae. Rather than make its case by using a legitimate link between Fannie and Obama (or other Democratic leaders), the McCain forces chose a former Fannie executive who had no real tie to Obama or his campaign but did have a black face that could dominate the ad's visuals. 
 There are no black faces high in the McCain hierarchy to object to these tactics. There hasn't been a single black Republican governor, senator or House member in six years. This is a campaign where Palin can repeatedly declare that Alaska is ''a microcosm of America'' without anyone even wondering how that might be so for a state whose tiny black and Hispanic populations are each roughly one-third the national average. There are indeed so few people of color at McCain events that a black senior writer from The Tallahassee Democrat was mistakenly ejected by the Secret Service from a campaign rally in Panama City in August, even though he was standing with other reporters and showed his credentials. His only apparent infraction was to look glaringly out of place. 
 Could the old racial politics still be determinative? I've long been skeptical of the incessant press prognostications (and liberal panic) that this election will be decided by racist white men in the Rust Belt. Now even the dimmest bloviators have figured out that Americans are riveted by the color green, not black -- as in money, not energy. Voters are looking for a leader who might help rescue them, not a reckless gambler whose lurching responses to the economic meltdown (a campaign ''suspension,'' a mortgage-buyout stunt that changes daily) are as unhinged as his wanderings around the debate stage. 
 To see how fast the tide is moving, just look at North Carolina. On July 4 this year -- the day that the godfather of modern G.O.P. racial politics, Jesse Helms, died -- The Charlotte Observer reported that strategists of both parties agreed Obama's chances to win the state fell ''between slim and none.'' Today, as Charlotte reels from the implosion of Wachovia, the McCain-Obama race is a dead heat in North Carolina and Helms's Republican successor in the Senate, Elizabeth Dole, is looking like a goner. 
 But we're not at Election Day yet, and if voters are to have their final say, both America and Obama have to get there safely. The McCain campaign has crossed the line between tough negative campaigning and inciting vigilantism, and each day the mob howls louder. The onus is on the man who says he puts his country first to call off the dogs, pit bulls and otherwise. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RACE & RACISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); WRITERS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); EDUCATION REFORM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SARAH PALIN (79%); MICHAEL CHERTOFF (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



499 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3769 words

HEADLINE: Amid the Gloom, an E-Commerce War

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
WHEN the e-commerce giant eBay emerged from the last recession seven years ago with an aura of invincibility, its chief executive, Meg Whitman, boasted that ''eBay is to some extent recession-proof.''
As the online auctioneer's revenues and stock price kept climbing, one of its primary rivals, Amazon.com, just limped along.
How times have changed.
Ms. Whitman, now co-chair of Senator John McCain's presidential campaign, retired from eBay earlier this year as the company struggled with stagnation. Amazon, meanwhile, has emerged as one of the most vibrant and reliable retailers in the country. 
And in an unmistakable sign that Internet companies are indeed exposed to the gathering economic storm stemming from the credit crisis, Ms. Whitman's successor, John J. Donahoe, laid off 10 percent of eBay's 16,000 employees last Monday.
Mr. Donahoe noted that eBay was already feeling the effects of the downturn. ''This looks like it is going to be a more typical economic cycle that impacts consumer spending,'' he said. ''We are not immune.''
That the economic crisis is washing up on Silicon Valley's shores shouldn't, perhaps, come as a surprise. Most tech companies are defenseless against waning advertising, business spending and consumer interest in big-ticket items like computers. Over the last three months, investors have punished tech companies like Google, Microsoft and Apple, extracting a fifth to a half of their market value.
E-commerce, though, was once thought to be a refuge from economic storms. People who stay away from the mall might actually be more tempted to shop online and hunt for deals, or so the thinking went.
But analysts are now revisiting that assumption. Many consumers, citing an uncertain economy, say they will clutch their wallets tightly this holiday season regardless of where they shop: 48 percent surveyed recently by eBillme, an online payment service, said they planned to delay purchases.
Traditional, brick-and-mortar stores had wrenching, double-digit declines in September sales and are bracing for a bleak holiday season. No one is certain to what degree online retailers will feel that same pain, because digital vendors have never endured a deep, protracted economic slump before.
''We still feel pretty good about this year, but I worry about next year and beyond,'' said Brian J. Pitz, an analyst at Banc of America Securities. ''Are people going to spend when they can't get home equity lines of credit, a student loan or a car loan?''
For eBay and Amazon, the twin giants of e-commerce, the financial meltdown has arrived at a particularly crucial time. After years of claiming that their businesses were complementary, not competitive, the companies are now on a collision course.
Amazon has accelerated its courtship of small online vendors, allowing them to sell on its site -- becoming more like eBay. And eBay, desperate to revive itself, has decided to emphasize traditional, fixed-price sales of both new and old merchandise -- becoming more like Amazon.
AT stake is more than e-commerce bragging rights. On the Internet, size matters. Larger companies can collect more information about consumers, negotiate better deals with partners and use that leverage to expand their dominance (for example, Google versus Yahoo in search).
''This is a pivotal holiday season for eBay,'' said Jeffrey Lindsay, a senior analyst at Bernstein Research who has covered the Internet for a decade. ''What people fear is that Amazon is basically building a bigger sales base than eBay and will use that knowledge to sell people more and more of the things they want to buy online.''
Indeed, the balance of power in e-commerce seems to be shifting faster than anyone expected. Just three years ago, eBay had 30 percent more traffic than Amazon. Today, its total of 84.5 million active users is barely ahead of the 81 million active customer accounts that Amazon reported in June.
Amazon has exceeded eBay in other measures as well.
EBay's market capitalization was three times Amazon's in 2005, back when Wall Street loved the fact that it carried no inventory and generated huge profits. This year, eBay's stock has lost over half its value and, in July, Amazon's valuation surpassed eBay's for the first time.
In a series of interviews, Mr. Donahoe acknowledged that eBay, based in San Jose, Calif., didn't adapt fast enough to shifting e-commerce winds. He now embraces a ''turnaround mind-set'' and is refocusing its Web marketplace toward shoppers who don't want to waste time in online auctions.
''There are times when I wish we can close this store and just open a new store, but we can't,'' he said. ''We need to make bolder, more aggressive changes to the eBay ecosystem even if they are unpopular.''
Up in Seattle, meanwhile, Amazon's chief executive, Jeffrey P. Bezos, says that after years of failed experimentation, third-party vendors -- the foundation on which eBay was built -- now account for about 29 percent of sales on Amazon. The company has endured and outlasted critics who long complained about its high fixed costs.
Last year, it impressed investors with accelerating growth, and its stock price revisited the highs of the dot-com boom, before waning euphoria and market pessimism erased more than half of those gains this year. Mr. Bezos credits Amazon's tolerance for risky, expensive bets like the Kindle electronic reading device.
''Our willingness to be misunderstood, our long-term orientation and our willingness to repeatedly fail are the three parts of our culture that make doing this kind of thing possible,'' he said.
EBay's recent problems have made Mr. Bezos and his team look like shrewd and patient stewards of the Amazon franchise. And Amazon's second wind is making eBay look as if it has missed one of the greatest opportunities in the Internet's short history.
''EBay could have closed the door to Amazon back when Amazon was mostly just a platform to sell books and music,'' said Scott Devitt, an analyst at Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, the investment bank. ''But what eBay did in those days was to take a very hands-off approach and let the marketplace control itself. And that ended up being the downfall of the business relative to others that have succeeded.''
OVER the summer of 2004, at the annual executive retreat that eBay insiders call ''Telluride,'' a product strategy team argued that eBay needed to break into the promising world of digital media. Pointing to the popularity of services like Napster and the new iTunes music store from Apple, the group predicted that media like books, music and movies would inevitably be distributed digitally, over the Web.
EBay, they argued, needed to ride that wave.
That insight -- which did catch on at Amazon and is now responsible for high-profile efforts like the Kindle and Amazon's MP3 store and video-on-demand service -- went nowhere at eBay.
''Nobody really shut it down. The process shut it down,'' says a former eBay executive who was on the product strategy team but requested anonymity to avoid alienating former colleagues. ''The company was obsessed with making quarterly numbers.''
Whether passing on digital media was a mistake at eBay is still an open question. But the anecdote illustrates larger problems. More than a dozen current and former eBay executives, from all levels of management, say eBay routinely failed to reorient its core business.
They say eBay avoided fiddling with its auction model because it was wary of disrupting a long-profitable equilibrium between buyers and sellers.
EBay has known for years that some Web buyers were looking for a different experience. Surveys suggested that auction participants were alienated by untrustworthy sellers and hidden shipping fees, and increasingly preferred the certainty of instantly buying items at a fixed price.
Although eBay executives recognized and routinely acknowledged the problem, they never took bold, direct steps to address it.
In 2005, the company acquired Shopping.com, a comparative shopping site that catalogs products for sale elsewhere on the Web. But for years eBay did not promote the company's listings, primarily because its vocal community of sellers -- the ones paying fees to eBay -- protested whenever eBay sent buyers to other retailers.
Josh Kopelman, who founded the e-commerce site Half.com and sold it to eBay in 2001, says that there was an understandable cultural reluctance inside eBay to alienate sellers. ''We got paid a fee to provide a service to a community,'' he said. ''Hurting members of that community was difficult.''
Instead of imposing critical fixes to its slowing model, eBay searched for high-growth businesses elsewhere, acquiring Skype, the online calling service; StubHub, the ticketing site; and a series of classified-advertising Web sites.
The company did create a whole new site, called eBay Express, where it tried to satisfy buyer interest in a simpler shopping experience. EBay Express automatically amassed all the fixed-price, non-auction listings on eBay properties and presented them in an organized way with only one payment system, PayPal -- also owned by eBay.
But in the two-year life of eBay Express, eBay never directed any meaningful traffic to it, fearing that it would interfere with the more profitable and popular auction-oriented site. The company shuttered eBay Express this year and has said it will move some of its innovative features to eBay.com.
Contributing to intransigence, according to several former executives, were deep divisions and constant hand-wringing among its managers over the most fundamental question: What is eBay?
One camp believed that eBay was a discount palace and that it had to continually offer deals to buyers in whatever shopping format they wanted.
But another group, resistant to change even as late as last year when eBay was clearly losing ground, believed that the brand was tied up in the excitement of auctions. Emphasizing traditional shopping destroyed what made eBay special, they argued.
''Today online shopping is mainstream, but it's also becoming boring,'' Bill Cobb, then the president of eBay North America, wrote in a June 2007 blog entry that typified this thinking. ''We're investing in the quintessential eBay experience of buying and selling -- person to person -- in an auction format.''
Ms. Whitman seemed to moderate this constant debate while never actually settling it. At times, she also seemed unwilling to leave auctions behind.
In an interview last week, while on a break from traveling with the Republican vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin, Ms. Whitman said it was hard for her to reflect on these kinds of divisions within the company, or on missed opportunities.
''There was no shortage of realistic looks in the mirror, where we asked ourselves if we were doing the best job that we could do,'' she said.
She also addressed another notion raised by former eBayers, who say executives were dismissive of Amazon but focused obsessively on Google, the search leader whose tentative moves into e-commerce were viewed inside eBay as acts of aggression.
''Google is a disruptive competitor. It's not a marketplace and it's not a retailer but has a different way of marrying buyers and sellers,'' she said. ''I don't think you can overstate any competitive threats.''
But paranoia about Google, these former executives say, fueled strategic missteps like the Skype acquisition, which Google had also pursued. Ms. Whitman and other eBay managers spent considerable energy trying to integrate Skype, and last year eBay wrote down $1.4 billion of the $3.1 billion acquisition.
As eBay obsessed about Google, the online retailer from Seattle was encroaching on its turf.
CONVERSATIONS with Jeff Bezos of Amazon inevitably provoke two kinds of outbursts. One is that famous, barking laugh that punctuates even seemingly mundane sentences. The other is his paean to the wisdom of long-term thinking.
''We are willing to plant seeds that take five to seven years to grow into reasonable things,'' he said in an interview. ''You can't do big, clean-sheet invention unless you are willing to invest for long periods of time.''
Mr. Bezos has delivered these kinds of odes to patience and risk tolerance for nearly a decade. The company's appetite for enduring short-term pain for long-term gain is clearest when comparing it with its rival, eBay.
While eBay was buying into classified advertising, online payments and Internet telephony, Amazon spent hundreds of millions of dollars building its brand as a trusted retailer -- hiring customer service representatives and returning money to customers when transactions went awry.
As eBay took a pass on digital media, Amazon dove in and frustrated investors for years with margins that were diminished by a bulky R.& D. budget -- but produced promising businesses like the MP3 store.
Compensation at the two companies also reflects core differences. Amazon evaluates its executives annually and gives performance-based stock grants. Until this year, when Mr. Donahoe became chief executive, eBay gave cash and stock bonuses based on quarterly performance, rewarding managers for meeting Wall Street's short-term expectations.
Similarly, Amazon's push to recruit the small sellers who orbited eBay was marked, at first, by patience and often-embarrassing experimentation.
In 1999, five years after Mr. Bezos first plunged his stake into the ground as an online bookseller, Amazon invaded eBay's territory, introducing Amazon Auctions and a way for retailers to set up stores on the site, called zShops. The efforts tanked.
The problem then ''was that nobody came,'' Mr. Bezos said. ''Actually, sellers came, but the customers didn't care and didn't shop there.''
Amazon tried to promote this siloed merchandise on its site by linking to it on its more popular product pages. These so-called ''smart links'' were hotly controversial inside Amazon and became the subject of a rivalry between its retail and technology groups.
Fearful that sending visitors to other pages would cut into their sales, retailing executives at Amazon took to removing them from the page at every opportunity, according to one senior Amazon executive who was there at the time.
SEVERAL years ago, the company introduced Amazon Marketplace, laying the groundwork for its current path by listing new and used items from third-party sellers alongside its own merchandise.
If Amazon didn't stock a particular item, or if independent sellers could offer better prices, they would become the featured retailer on the page.
Amazon settled internal tensions by giving its retail managers credit for any products sold on their pages, even by third-party sellers. But Mr. Bezos says the arrangement still produces anxiety.
''Put yourself in place of our retail buyers,'' he said. ''You just purchased 10,000 units of a particular digital camera and you are told, if any third party anywhere in the world can offer a better price, we are going to give them the buy box and you are going to get stuck with the inventory. That causes some angst.''
Over the last five years, Amazon has lowered hurdles for independent vendors to sell on its site and recruited new groups of merchants as it has expanded into other countries and product categories -- automotive parts in 2006 and office supplies this year, for example.
Amazon executives say they don't specifically pursue top eBay sellers, but some merchants suggest otherwise.
David Duong, founder of Shoe Metro, a Web retailer based in San Diego, says Amazon representatives called him shortly after Amazon.com introduced a shoe category in 2005 and asked him to begin selling on the site.
''I guess they found us on eBay,'' he said. ''We were actually going to talk to them, but they beat us to the punch.''
Lately, small merchants and their trade organizations say, the outreach has become even more direct. The Professional EBay Sellers Alliance said that Amazon recently offered to waive some fees for the 800 members of the group, an organization of eBay power sellers, to woo them to its platform.
Because Amazon also sells many of the same products as its merchants, executives at eBay predict that competitive tensions will emerge as the Amazon Marketplace grows. Maybe so. It's happened before.
Amazon once ran the Web operations of large traditional retailers like Borders, Circuit City and Toys ''R'' Us. One by one, those retailers concluded that outsourcing such a crucial feature of 21st-century retailing to a competitor was a bad idea.
But some of its newer deals with sellers indicate that Amazon is finding ways around those tensions, at least with small merchants.
Andrew and Deb Mowery of Fort Collins, Colo., who started selling home, garden and pet supplies on eBay in 1999, now make 60 percent of their sales on Amazon and about 20 percent on eBay. In addition to listing items for sale on the Amazon Marketplace, they are also a wholesale supplier to Amazon, providing it with products like heated pet beds.
Mr. Mowery is essentially competing with himself, but the arrangement works. ''If they run out, I've got their back,'' he said. ''If I run out, they've got my back.''
Amazon wants to forge these kinds of close ties with other small sellers. A program called Fulfillment by Amazon, introduced in 2006, allows retailers to store their inventory in Amazon's warehouses. When someone buys an item from that seller, Amazon ships it out of its warehouse in an Amazon box.
Integrating small merchants into its operations also allows Amazon to learn more about whom it can trust to sell on its site. Compared with eBay, the company says it exerts a far greater measure of control over its marketplace, calling certain vendors ''featured sellers'' and vetting others in product categories that are sensitive to fraud.
''At the end of the day, we believe it's good for all of our sellers to make sure we are protecting the consumer experience first,'' Mr. Bezos said. ''Our first and foremost goal is to earn trust with consumers. If there are no consumers buying, nothing else matters.''
DESPITE Amazon's success in courting independent sellers, its selection is still just a fraction of what eBay offers, and in some cases its prices are higher.
For example, there are hundreds of new, used and refurbished Trek racing bikes on eBay; as of last week, Amazon had three for sale. Acquisitive parents can buy a $90 Deux Par Deux baby sweater dress on eBay for under $30. But only a few of this French designer's items are listed on Amazon, and for close to full price.
And that Lehman Brothers 150th-anniversary collectible tote bag, which every irony-obsessed stock market fan wants under the Christmas tree? It is available for purchase only on eBay, in auctions.
This is where Mr. Donahoe talks about a vision to fix eBay, and to create a Web discount store that offers a wide variety of new and old merchandise in auction and fixed-price formats. To get there, he must administer the sweeping, painful fixes that eBay has previously shunned.
''It was increasingly clear to me in 2007 that what felt like bold changes, and to the community felt like bold changes, were not bold enough,'' he said.
His attempted fixes have started internally. In addition to making executive bonuses annual instead of quarterly, to keep employees from leaving and reward longer-term thinking, he moved the company's focus to buyers instead of sellers.
He canceled the annual eBay Live conference next year with merchants -- this year, it turned into an unwieldy complaint session -- and began making eBay executives read weekly surveys that ask shoppers whether they would recommend eBay to a friend.
THE eBay facade is also undergoing its most significant renovation in its 14-year history as Mr. Donahoe tries to adjust eBay fees to tempt sellers to list more of their products at fixed prices.
EBay has also added a new 30-day listing at a fixed price that is more economical to many sellers than auctions. It has also disabled the feedback mechanism that allowed sellers to rank buyers and introduced a new ''best match'' search engine that promotes trusted sellers and good deals.
In another controversial change, eBay has struck special deals with large merchants like Buy.com, which pays no listing fees and offers more than half a million products on eBay.com.
The point of the arrangement is to ensure that eBay stays fully stocked in basics like batteries and printer cartridges. Other eBay sellers are enraged, though, arguing that the deal violates the sacred eBay tenet of the ''level playing field.''
These sellers have vented their frustrations online about eBay's changes. It's hard to gauge whether the vitriol represents the majority view, but some less vocal, larger sellers on eBay say they have actually benefited.
''EBay has told all bad sellers to shape up,'' said Jordan Insley, an electronics merchant who lives near Seattle. ''I've seen a lot of sellers that used to sell a lot of product fall off the charts.''
Although he worries that buyer traffic on eBay is slowing, Mr. Insley says he will sell $13 million in gadgets this year on eBay alone. ''I think eBay is moving in the right direction. We are sticking around.''
Still, Mr. Donahoe can't count on that sentiment to carry the day. Few of his changes are expected to deliver any immediate results, other than alienating certain sellers.
Yet for eBay, the changes may be a matter of survival. The company need only look across Silicon Valley at Yahoo to see what can happen to wounded Internet companies with depressed stock prices.
In the meantime, he faces tough choices. He is weighing a possible sale of Skype by next year, and analysts think he will almost certainly make that move, since the company now acknowledges that Skype has little synergy with eBay's other businesses.
That would free eBay to focus on its core marketplace, on getting through the torrential economic downpour, and on combating a challenger that is making greater incursions every day.
''I respect Jeff Bezos a lot as a leader and Amazon and what they've done,'' Mr. Donahoe said. ''But it is still early days in this industry. E-commerce is 7 percent of retail. I don't think anyone thinks it's going to end there. We think there is plenty of room for both Amazon and eBay to be successful.''
Correction: October 19, 2008, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the business battle between eBay and Amazon.com misspelled the surname of the founder of Half.com, an e-commerce site, who sold to eBay in 2001. He is Josh Kopelman, not Koppelman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (BEZOS)
PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (DONAHOE))(BU1)
Andrew Mowery started selling home and pet supplies on eBay. He now makes 60 percent of his sales on Amazon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Jordan Insley, who sells electronics online, plans to stick with eBay, saying he thinks it's ''moving in the right direction.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER YATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU7) DRAWING (BU1)
CHART: As eBay Sputtered, Amazon Soared: Investors' attitudes toward the two companies have changed in the last two years. Jeffrey P. Bezos of Amazon, left, has long emphasized experiments like third-party selling. John J. Donahoe of eBay is shifting the company away from auctions. (Source: Bloomberg)(BU1)
CHART: Closing the Gap: For years, eBay was worth more than Amazon and had more customers. Now, Amazon has pulled ahead in market cap and is almost even in user accounts. (Sources: Bloomberg
 the companies) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); DISTANCE LEARNING (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (60%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%)

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%); APPLE INC (82%); GOOGLE INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (90%); JOHN DONAHOE (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (75%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



500 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1876 words

HEADLINE: White House Overhauling Rescue Plan for Economy

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and MARK LANDLER; Mark Landler contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As international leaders gathered here on Saturday to grapple with the global financial crisis, the Bush administration embarked on an overhaul of its own strategy for rescuing the foundering financial system.
 Two weeks after persuading Congress to let it spend $700 billion to buy distressed securities tied to mortgages, the Bush administration has put that idea aside in favor of a new approach that would have the government inject capital directly into the nation's banks -- in effect, partially nationalizing the industry. 
 As recently as Sept. 23, senior officials had publicly derided proposals by Democrats to have the government take ownership stakes in banks. 
 The Treasury Department's surprising turnaround on the issue of buying stock in banks, which has now become its primary focus, has raised questions about whether the administration squandered valuable time in trying to sell Congress on a plan that officials had failed to think through in advance. 
 It has also raised questions about whether the administration's deep philosophical aversion to government ownership in private companies hindered its ability to look at all options for stabilizing the markets.
 Some experts also contend that Treasury's decision last month to not use taxpayer money to save Lehman Brothers worsened the panic that quickly metastasized into an international crisis. 
 The administration's new focus was announced late Friday as part of a rescue plan in coordination with six of the world's richest nations. It came during a week when the Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 18 percent, one of the worst weeks in stock market history.
 While the Treasury says it still plans to buy distressed assets, the scope of that plan is unclear. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has refused to say whether the capital infusion program for banks would be bigger than the original plan to buy troubled assets. 
 Still, Treasury has directed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage giants, to ramp up their purchases of hard-to-sell mortgage bonds, in what could be a speedier and less formal process than the auctions proposed by the Treasury.
 Underscoring the gravity of the situation, President Bush convened an early morning meeting at the White House on Saturday with finance ministers from the Group of 7 industrialized countries. 
 ''All of us recognize that this is a serious global crisis, and therefore requires a serious global response, for the good of our people,'' Mr. Bush said afterward in the Rose Garden, flanked by the ministers, who are in Washington for the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
 Mr. Bush said the countries had agreed to general principles to respond to the crisis, including working to prevent the collapse of important financial institutions and protecting the deposits of savers. But he offered no details on other measures, suggesting that there were still differences among countries about which steps to take to shore up their respective financial systems.
 To some extent, the effort to agree on a coordinated plan is being driven less by the hope that such measures will carry more punch than by the fear that nations acting alone could destabilize the system.
 Those worries grew in recent days when Iceland seized its three major banks, which were failing, and appeared to guarantee the deposits of Icelanders over those of foreigners. That provoked a fierce reaction from Britain, which is now in talks with Iceland to get back the deposits of British citizens.
 With the United States and Europe working together on ways to secure their banking systems, economists are concerned that money may flow out of other countries, particularly emerging markets, to Western countries if investors decide that those markets are not as safe.
 The United States sought to reassure these countries in a meeting on Saturday evening of the Group of 20, which includes countries with large emerging markets, like China and Russia.
 ''We want to reaffirm, reinforce our commitment that we're going to take these actions in a way that doesn't undermine the economies of other countries,'' said David H. McCormick, the under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs.
 Like the United States, Britain plans to provide capital directly to banks. But the United States and other countries have not adopted Britain's proposal to guarantee lending between banks as a way to unlock the credit market. 
 Germany has been reluctant to put state capital directly into banks, though officials said there were signs of movement in that position on Saturday. Europeans leaders were scheduled to meet in Paris on Sunday, amid reports that Germany may announce a large rescue plan of its own.
 Some experts said the delay in carrying out the Bush administration's $700 billion bailout plan had only hurt its prospects for success.
 ''Even if it was adequate before, it's not adequate now,'' said Frederic Mishkin, a professor of economics at Columbia University's business school who stepped down as a Federal Reserve governor at the end of August. ''If you delay and create uncertainty, the amount of money you have to put up goes up.''
 As recently as late September, the idea of letting the government buy part of the banking system had been unthinkable in the Bush administration. To many officials, such intervention seemed like a European-style government intrusion in the markets. 
 ''Some said we should just stick capital in the banks, take preferred stock in the banks. That's what you do when you have failure,'' Mr. Paulson told the Senate Banking Committee on Sept. 23. ''This is about success.'' 
 Mr. Paulson told lawmakers it made more sense to jumpstart the frozen credit markets with ''market measures,'' by which he meant buying up assets rather than institutions. He staunchly resisted Democratic proposals to require that the government receive an equity stake in the companies it was helping.
 But on Friday, Mr. Paulson not only confirmed his intention to buy stakes in banks but gave the idea central billing. ''We can use the taxpayer's money more effectively and efficiently, get more for the taxpayer's dollar, if we develop a standardized program to buy equity in financial institutions,'' Mr. Paulson said. 
 Treasury officials said they hoped to make the first capital investments within the next two weeks. That would be earlier than any government purchases of unwanted mortgage-backed securities. One reason for Mr. Paulson's rapid reconsideration was that global financial markets have been going downhill faster than anyone had seen before. 
 Credit markets seized up and all but stopped functioning, making it impossible for most companies to borrow money on more than an overnight basis. Bank stocks plummeted, making it much more difficult to shore up their balance sheets by raising more capital from investors.
 Investors panicked as the House initially rejected the bailout bill on Sept. 29. They panicked even more after Congress passed a bill on Oct. 3 that was packed with sweeteners that added $110 billion to the price tag.
 By the closing bell last Friday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had suffered its worst week since 1933. A growing number of analysts argue that Mr. Paulson's original plan, called the Troubled Assets Relief Program, would have been unhelpful and possibly unworkable. Some noted that Mr. Paulson presented Congress a proposal that was only three pages long and that Treasury officials have yet to provide details how the auctions will work.
 As envisioned, the Treasury or its agents would hold so-called ''reverse auctions'' in which financial institutions are invited to compete against each other in offering to sell their mortgage-backed securities at a low price. 
 Though auctions are common for all sorts of products, including electricity that utilities sell one another, experts said that mortgage-backed securities would pose difficult headaches because they are extraordinarily complex, difficult to value and come in almost limitless varieties. 
 The bonds for a single pool of mortgages are divided into more than a dozen ''tranches,'' or slices, which have different seniority, different credit ratings and different rules for being paid off. The performance of the underlying mortgages varies greatly from one pool to another, even if both pools are made up of seemingly similar loans.
 ''I am not aware that the Treasury Department presented any evidence on auctions that have been successful when they are used for assets that are so heterogeneous,'' said William Poole, who retired in August as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 
 Because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage giants, buy and sell mortgage securities every day, they could absorb some of the hard-to-sell securities without going through the untested auction process. 
 The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which last month seized the companies and placed them into a conservatorship, lifted capital restrictions on them last week and effectively gave them a green light to buy more mortgage securities of all types, including those backed by subprime loans, given to borrowers with weak credit.
 The companies have a lot of money; Congress authorized Treasury to lend them as much as $100 billion each as part of the rescue plan created for them. That could free up money in the separate $700 billion bailout plan for injecting capital directly into the banks. People familiar with the early planning efforts for a systemic bailout said the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, argued that it would be easier and more efficient to inject capital directly into banks. But Treasury officials balked, in part because they were ideologically opposed to direct government involvement in business.
 But as the financial markets spiraled further downward during the last 10 days, a growing number of top-tier institutions, including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, became worried about their survival. 
 ''The crisis in confidence goes way beyond the actual losses that will be incurred from debt securities,'' Mickey Levy, chief economist for Bank of America, said in an interview on Friday. ''It's truly incumbent on policy makers to address that crisis.''
 Treasury officials began canvassing banks and investment firms about the possibility of having the government buy stakes in them. The new bailout law gave the Treasury the authority to buy up almost any kind of asset it wanted, including stock or preferred shares in banks.
 Industry executives quickly told Mr. Paulson that they liked the idea, though they warned that the Treasury should not try to squeeze out existing shareholders. They also begged Mr. Paulson not to impose tough restrictions on executive pay and golden-parachute deals for executives who are fired.
 Mr. Paulson heeded those pleas. In his remarks on Friday, he carefully noted that the government would acquire only ''nonvoting'' shares in companies. And officials said the law lets the Treasury write most of its own restrictions on executive pay, and those restrictions can be lenient if they are applied to a set of fairly healthy companies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Bush led a morning meeting on the financial crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Ben Bernanke of the Fed, center left, and Dominique Strauss-Kahn of the I.M.F. at Saturday's talks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); BONDS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (60%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



501 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Declares North Korea Off Terror List

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Choe Sang-hun contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration announced Saturday that it had removed North Korea from a list of state sponsors of terrorism in a bid to salvage a fragile nuclear deal that seemed on the verge of collapse. 
 Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said that the United States made the decision after North Korea agreed to resume disabling a plutonium plant and to allow some inspections to verify that it had halted its nuclear program as promised months earlier. 
 The deal, which the Bush administration had portrayed as a major foreign policy achievement, began slipping away in recent weeks in a dispute over the verification program. Just days ago, North Korea barred international inspectors from the plant. 
 The decision to remove North Korea from the terror list was a dramatic moment for President Bush, who had called the country part of an ''axis of evil'' and had only reluctantly ordered administration officials to engage in negotiations, saying that the United States had made deals with the nation's leaders before without winning enough concessions. 
 That calculus changed in 2006, when North Korea exploded a nuclear device. 
 But Mr. Bush is already having trouble selling the new agreement to his own party. Republican lawmakers, including the presidential nominee, Senator John McCain, quickly expressed concern, complaining that North Korea had yet to demonstrate that it was serious about adhering to its commitment to denuclearize. 
 Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee for president, called the deal ''a modest step forward'' in dismantling North Korea's nuclear weapons program. Other Democrats said they welcomed the agreement but noted that it did not go much beyond an agreement President Clinton reached with North Korea in 1994, which the Bush administration, including Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, criticized as inadequate.
 Bush administration officials, trying to head off potential criticism that they were simply seeking a foreign policy victory in their last months, said the agreement was the best the United States could get at this time.
 Ms. Rice ''very strongly feels that it is our own responsibility, until Jan. 20, 2009, to act as good stewards of the national interest,'' Mr. McCormack said during a news conference.
 In the most significant part of the accord announced Saturday, North Korea agreed to a verification plan that would allow United States inspectors access to its main declared nuclear compound, at Yongbyon; international inspectors have worked at the site on and off for years. But the deal puts off decisions on the thorniest verification issue: what would happen if international experts suspected the North was hiding other nuclear weapons facilities, particularly those related to uranium enrichment. 
 The United States wanted the North to agree to inspections at sites that raised suspicions, but North Korea balked. The new agreement calls for United States inspectors to be granted access to such sites ''based on mutual consent'' with North Korea. 
 Experts on North Korea say that the concession by the United States was probably necessary to achieve a deal, but that it no doubt will lead to future fights, since the North's leaders will not want to give inspectors free rein to travel the country. 
 Patricia A. McNerney, one of the State Department negotiators, acknowledged that issue would probably lead to a hornets' nest of problems. ''Going into verification with North Korea will not be easy, we know that,'' she said. ''This is the most secret and opaque regime in the world.''
 North Korea, which has long sought international acceptance, had been pushing hard to get off the terror list. But Mr. McCormack made clear on Saturday that North Korea is still subject to numerous economic sanctions.
 The agreement follows weeks of intense negotiations and high-stakes brinkmanship, as North Korea, furious that the Bush administration had not removed it from the terrorism list as it agreed last summer, threatened to restart its plutonium-based weapons program and barred international inspectors from the Yongbyon plant. In Washington, State Department proponents of the deal, including Ms. Rice and her top North Korea envoy, Christopher R. Hill, battled critics inside and outside the administration who castigated them for trying to salvage the accord.
 The administration has been at war with itself over whether to go ahead with the North Korea pact despite objections from critics in the office of Vice President Dick Cheney, and even some members of the State Department's verification and compliance office. That rift spilled into the open at the news conference on Saturday, when a reporter asked Paula A. DeSutter, the assistant secretary of state for verification, compliance and implementation, how she responded to criticism of the deal from John R. Bolton, her former boss at the State Department. 
 Ms. DeSutter did not defend the accord, saying simply, ''John is the epitome of a skeptical policymaker, and that's appropriate.'' 
 Despite the internal fights, Ms. Rice convinced President Bush last week that this was the best the administration could get in its remaining time in office. But as late as Friday, things remained up in the air, said one administration official, who, like several other officials and diplomats interviewed for this article, spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the issue. Another senior administration official described the internal deliberations as a ''close call.''
 Senator McCain said in a statement that he would not support the deal until he got some questions answered. ''I expect the administration to explain exactly how this new verification agreement advances American interests and those of our allies,'' he said. He added that he was ''concerned that this latest agreement appears to have been reached between Washington and Pyongyang, and only then discussed with our Asian allies in an effort to garner their support.''
 Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida, issued a statement strongly criticizing the deal. ''I am profoundly disappointed,'' she said. ''By rewarding North Korea before the regime has carried out its commitments, we are encouraging this regime to continue its illicit nuclear program and violate its pledge to no longer provide nuclear assistance to extremist regimes.''
 Two of the Bush administration's main criticisms of the 1994 accord were that it did not mandate the removal of nuclear material from North Korea and that international inspectors were limited to Yongbyon. 
 The 1994 accord collapsed in 2002 after the Bush administration accused North Korea of circumventing the agreement by pursuing a second path to a bomb, based on enriching uranium. The White House said at the time that it would require full verification that any uranium program had been halted, though later the intelligence community expressed some doubts about how far the program had gotten.
 Although the new agreement leaves open the possibility of future inspections outside Yongbyon, it leaves vague what mechanism would be used to determine the status of a uranium program. 
 The North has agreed in principle to give up its nuclear material and any weapons, but that seems almost certain to be subject to negotiations with the next president. During the Bush administration, North Korea is believed to have produced enough bomb-grade plutonium for six or more nuclear weapons. 
 Bush administration officials have been consulting about the latest deal with its partners in the so-called ''six-party'' talks, the group including Russia, South Korea and Japan that negotiated the agreement in 2007 for the North to halt its nuclear activities. 
 Diplomats said that Japan had expressed reservations about removing North Korea from the terror list because the North still had not addressed all of their concerns about abductions of Japanese citizens decades ago. 
 After the official announcement on Saturday, Japan's finance minister, Shoichi Nakagawa, called the American decision ''extremely regrettable.''
 South Korea has been more supportive. 
 ''We welcome the agreement because we believe this will help put the six-party negotiations back on track and eventually lead to the dismantlement of North Korea's nuclear programs,'' said Kim Sook, South Korea's main nuclear envoy, during a news conference in Seoul on Sunday.
 The South Korean foreign minister, Yu Myung-hwan, had stressed Friday that if the six-party negotiations fell apart now, the next administration would have difficulty restarting them.
 Gary Samore, a nonproliferation expert in the Clinton administration, characterized the deal as probably the best that could be gotten at this time, but warned of stormy times to come. 
 ''Every agreement you ever have with the North Koreans always contains certain ambiguities, and that ends up being the basis for which you have the next round of talks,'' he said. ''It's always two steps forward and one step back.''
 For instance, he said, besides the issue of access to suspected nuclear sites, the United States and North Korea appear to have fudged the critical issue of whether American inspectors will be allowed to take all the samples they want out of the country to foreign laboratories for inspection. 
 According to a fact sheet issued by the Bush administration, the two sides agreed ''on the use of scientific procedures, including sampling and forensic activities,'' although the sheet doesn't say where those tests would be done. 
 Mr. Bolton, the former United States ambassador to the United Nations under Mr. Bush, said that the Bush administration had ''punted'' the hardest issue, that of inspections beyond declared nuclear sites. 
 ''This means that North Korea has a veto over everything beyond Yongbyon,'' he said, ''so that's a clear victory for North Korea.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sean McCormack of the State Department said the administration was acting ''as good stewards of the national interest.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN WOLF/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



502 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Voicing Concern After Rough Week for McCain

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and ELISABETH BUMILLER; Michael M. Grynbaum and Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After a turbulent week that included disclosures about Gov. Sarah Palin and signs that Senator John McCain was struggling to strike the right tone for his campaign, Republican leaders said Saturday that they were worried Mr. McCain was heading for defeat unless he brought stability to his presidential candidacy and settled on a clear message to counter Senator Barack Obama.
 Again and again, party leaders said in interviews that while they still believed that Mr. McCain could win over voters in the next 30 days, they were concerned that he and his advisers seemed to be adrift in dealing with an extraordinarily challenging political battleground and a crisis on Wall Street.
 The expressions of concern came after a particularly difficult week for Mr. McCain. On Friday night, new questions arose about his choice of Ms. Palin as his running mate after an investigation by the Alaska Legislature concluded that she had abused her power in trying to orchestrate the firing of her former brother-in-law, a state trooper. 
 ''I think you're seeing a turning point,'' said Saul Anuzis, the Republican chairman in Michigan, where Mr. McCain has decided to stop campaigning. ''You're starting to feel real frustration because we are running out of time. Our message, the campaign's message, isn't connecting.''
 Tommy Thompson, a Republican who is a former governor of Wisconsin, said it would be difficult for Mr. McCain to win in his state but not impossible, particularly if he campaigned in conservative Democratic parts of the state. Asked if he was happy with Mr. McCain's campaign, Mr. Thompson replied, ''No,'' and he added, ''I don't know who is.''
 In Pennsylvania, Robert A. Gleason Jr., the state Republican chairman, said he was concerned that Mr. McCain's increasingly aggressive tone was not working with moderate voters and women in the important southeastern part of a state that is at the top of Mr. McCain's must-win list.
 ''They're not as susceptible to attack ads,'' Mr. Gleason said. ''I worry about the southeast. Obama is making inroads.''
 Several party leaders said Mr. McCain needed to settle on a single message in the final weeks of the campaign and warned that his changing day-to-day dialogue -- a welter of evolving economic proposals, mixed with on-again-off-again attacks on Mr. Obama's character -- was not breaking through and was actually helping Mr. Obama in his effort to portray Mr. McCain as erratic.
 ''The main thing he needs to do,'' said Vin Weber, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota, ''is focus on a single message -- a single, concise or clear-cut message, and stick with that over the next 30 days, regardless of what happens. 
 ''He's had a lot of attack lines. But it's time to choose.''
 John C. Danforth, a retired Republican senator from Missouri, said Mr. McCain should turn his attention mainly to drawing contrasts with Mr. Obama and ''essentially go back to the basics.''
 ''I don't think it's enough to talk about earmarks incessantly,'' Mr. Danforth said. ''He's made that point. You've got to get beyond that and talk about the very dramatic taxes and spending in the Obama program.''
 Even that might not be enough, Mr. Danforth said. ''This is a year where everything that could go in Obama's favor is going in Obama's favor,'' he said. ''Everything that could go against McCain is against him. It's absolutely the worst kind of perfect storm.''
 Mr. McCain's advisers said they remained confident of victory. 
 ''My sense of where things are: John McCain beat back what was a political climate that would have snuffed out any other candidate in the Republican Party,'' said Nicolle Wallace, a senior adviser. ''He's beat back every hurdle that was ever placed in front of him.''
 Mr. McCain acknowledged the challenge Saturday as he campaigned in Iowa, where President Bush won narrowly in 2004 but where polls show Mr. Obama with a healthy lead.
 ''I'd like to remind you that the political pundits have been wrong several times,'' Mr. McCain said, ''and they're wrong because we will win the state of Iowa in November.''
 Yet there were continued signs of confusion and turmoil in the McCain campaign, as his aides wrestled with conflicting advice, daunting poll numbers and criticism from state party leaders increasingly distressed with the way the campaign has been run.
 Republicans said he had been damaged by several rallies last week in which supporters shouted insults and threats about Mr. Obama, prompting Mr. McCain on Friday night to chide audience members. His aides suggested that they were trying to find a balance between attacking Mr. Obama and painting him as untested and risky without stirring unruly crowd reactions.
 Emotions are raw in the campaign, where Mr. McCain's top advisers have voiced frustration at what they said was an unfair focus by the news media on the rowdy crowds. 
 ''I think there have been quite a few reporters recently,'' said Mr. McCain's closest adviser, Mark Salter, ''who have sort of implied, or made more than implications, that somehow we're responsible for the occasional nut who shows up and yells something about Barack Obama.''
 The difficulties of the McCain campaign have led some Republican leaders to express concern that he could end up dragging other Republican candidates down to defeat. ''If Obama is able to run up big numbers around the country,'' said Mr. Anuzis, the Michigan party chairman, ''the potential for hurting down-ballot Republicans is very big.''
 One sign of that has emerged in Nebraska, where Representative Lee Terry, a Republican, ran a newspaper advertisement featuring words of support for him from a woman identified as an ''Obama-Terry voter.'' 
 In this churning environment, Mr. McCain was getting conflicting advice from party leaders about what to do. Former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, who was a rival of Mr. McCain for the Republican nomination, said Mr. McCain, who has offered scattershot proposals on the economy, should present a broad vision of how he would lead the country through the economic crisis.
 ''I'm talking about standing above the tactical alternatives that are being considered,'' Mr. Romney said, ''and establish an economic vision that is able to convince the American people that he really knows how to strengthen the economy.''
 But no subject has more divided Republicans than the one that has been a matter of disagreement in the McCain camp: how directly to invoke Mr. Obama's connection to his controversial former minister, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., and William Ayers, a former member of the Weather Underground who has had a passing association with Mr. Obama over the years.
 In Colorado, a traditionally Republican state that Mr. McCain is struggling to keep in his column, the party chairman, Dick Wadhams, urged Mr. McCain to hit the issue hard, arguing that it was fair game and could be highly effective in raising questions about Mr. Obama in the final weeks of the campaign. He said he was surprised Mr. McCain had failed to do so in the debate last week.
 ''I think those are legitimate insights into who Senator Obama is,'' Mr. Wadhams said. ''I do not think it is irrelevant to this election.''
 But Fergus Cullen, the Republican chairman in New Hampshire, said Saturday that he thought it would be a mistake for Mr. McCain to go down that road, warning that it would turn off moderate voters in his state who have a history of supporting Mr. McCain.
 ''I don't think he should be giving into elements of the base who have been asking him to be going after, using Wright, using Ayers,'' Mr. Cullen said. ''Think about it as an undecided persuadable voter.''
 Although Mr. McCain has declared Mr. Wright off limits, the campaign has brought up Mr. Ayers. But the campaign appeared to step back a bit in raising that relationship Saturday. At a rally in Iowa, Mr. McCain stuck to his usual attacks on the Democratic nominee on taxes, the financial crisis and housing. 
 For her part, Ms. Palin appeared to pull back on the sharp jabs at a fund-raiser in Philadelphia.
 ''We just want to make sure that in this campaign, that we uphold the standards of tolerance and truth-telling,'' she said. ''There have been things said, of course, that have allowed those standards to be violated on both sides, on both tickets. We want to uphold those standards, and again it's not mean-spirited, it's not negative campaigning, when we call someone out on their record.''
 Mr. Cullen said he still thought that Mr. McCain could win his state but acknowledged it would be difficult. ''The national news has not been politically favorable for us in the last two or three weeks,'' he said. ''He either has to come up with a way to make the discussion on the economy reflect better on the Republicans or change the subject to something else.''
 Mr. Romney referred to his own defeat at the hands of Mr. McCain in arguing that Mr. Obama should not be packing his bags for the White House quite yet. ''Never count John McCain out,'' he said. ''Who knows? He has ground to make up. But he makes up ground in a big hurry. He did it in the primary.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John McCain in Iowa on Saturday. His rival, Barack Obama, seeks to alter the political map block by block. Page 34. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
 John McCain on Saturday in Davenport, Iowa. Some Republican leaders say they want him to settle on a single message. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (88%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (59%) IOWA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



503 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Goals Are High In Energy Plan Seen as Vital To the State

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON; Nate Schweber contributed reporting from Atlantic City.

 BODY:
FOR many out-of-staters -- and even some state residents -- the images that come to mind when someone mentions New Jersey are the turnpike, chemical refineries and fictional gangsters.
 But New Jersey is quietly earning a reputation for its efforts to promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. This fall, the state will make final an ambitious master energy plan that aims to reduce energy consumption by at least 20 percent by 2020 and get 22.5 percent of its electricity from renewable sources.
 The goals, if met, could turn New Jersey into one of the country's greenest states. 
 ''We want to create this generation's race to the moon -- but this time, a race to the sea, to harness this potential wind source off of our coasts, and bring economic development, environmental benefits, and new, green jobs to the Garden State,'' Gov. Jon S. Corzine said on Monday in Atlantic City, where he spoke about the potential for offshore wind power. Going green is critical because with some of the highest taxes in the country, New Jersey needs to limit the rise in energy prices to keep residents and businesses from moving elsewhere, state officials and energy experts said. Using more clean energy is also crucial to improving air and water quality in the most densely populated state.
 ''People in New Jersey get it,'' said Jeanne M. Fox, the president of New Jersey's Board of Public Utilities. ''We're very environmentally minded, and we have to stop relying on foreign oil. It's killing our economy.''
 The cornerstone to New Jersey's energy plan is its renewable portfolio standard setting targets for what share of the state's energy should come from solar, wind and other renewable energy sources. The standard, enacted in 1999 and amended several times since then, requires companies that provide power to retail customers to get 2.12 percent of their energy from solar power by 2020, one of the highest ratios in the country.
 To jumpstart the market, the state established a rebate program, financed by a surcharge on utility bills, which worked so well it led to a backlog of applications. Since 2001, nearly 3,400 houses and commercial buildings have had solar panels installed that are capable of generating 60 megawatts of power. That amounts to 0.16 percent of the state's electricity.
 ''Historically, the leaders in solar power have been Japan, Germany, California and New Jersey,'' said Tom Tuffey, director of the Center for Energy, Enterprise and the Environment at PennFuture, an environmental advocate.
 He said that over the next dozen years, $25 billion will need to be spent in New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland and Pennsylvania so that those states can meet their goals for solar power.
 Of that amount, almost $11 billion would have to be spent in New Jersey to meet the state's aggressive target. So the state has phased out most of its subsidies and instead provides energy credits that could be bought and sold on the open market. Some small solar panel installers have complained that scrapping the rebate program may slow installations because it will take longer for consumers to recoup their investment.
 Meanwhile, New Jersey is trying to develop more wind power. On Oct. 3, the Board of Public Utilities approved a $1 billion plan to build an offshore wind farm in the state.
 The winner, Garden State Offshore Energy, hopes to build 96 turbines about 20 miles offshore to produce up to 345 megawatts of electricity, which would power tens of thousands of homes. The wind farm, to be completed in 2013, would help the state meet its target of installing 3,000 megawatts of wind power by 2020. Ms. Fox said that the utilities board is talking to other companies about offshore wind farms along the 75 miles of shoreline from Seaside to Cape May County.
 With so little land available for wind turbines onshore, New Jersey, like Delaware and Rhode Island, is looking offshore, where the wind blows more reliably during the daytime hours when electricity demand is highest. 
 Though offshore wind turbines typically cost about twice as much to build as those on land, the approval of deepwater projects in these three states should prompt other states to follow suit. For example, New York could consider projects off the South Shore of Long Island to supplement those upstate.
 ''There are pros and cons to onshore and offshore,'' said Stephen G. Whitley, the chief executive of the New York Independent System Operator, a nonprofit group that runs the state's electrical grid. ''But there's a real need for fuel diversity in New York.'' Mr. Whitley said there are about 7,000 megawatts worth of wind projects awaiting approval, including a 600-megawatt offshore project near New York City.
 Adding wind and solar power will help lower the carbon footprint in New Jersey, which gets 54 percent of its electricity from nuclear power, a relatively clean fuel. Already, New Jersey is among the states with the lowest carbon emissions per capita, according to Environment Northeast, a research and policy organization.
 While New Jersey has been a leader in the development of clean power, it has lagged behind New York in the creation of steps to save energy. On Monday, the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, a policy research and advocacy group in Washington, released an annual survey that said New Jersey ranked 10th for its efforts to promote energy efficiency. That is down from eighth last year. Connecticut finished third and New York ranked fifth this year.
 ''There is clearly room for improvement,'' Steven Nadel, the council's executive director, said of New Jersey. ''Ultimately, we want all states to do what the leading states are doing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GREEN: Atlantic City windmills and solar panels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(NJ1)
ANNOUNCEMENT: Gov. Jon S. Corzine compared today's energy race to the race to the moon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(NJ2) CHART: New Jersey's Carbon Footprint: As it encourages alternative energy sources, the state already ranks among the lowest in the country in carbon emissions, mostly because of its reliance on nuclear plants.(Source: Environment Northeast
 Energy Information Agency)(NJ2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); CONSUMPTION (71%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (70%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SALES REBATES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY BOARD OF PUBLIC UTILITIES (54%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



504 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
CONAN O'BRIEN
 President Bush gave a speech today about the economy. And he said he believed -- this is his quote -- he said, ''Anyone who makes bad decisions should fail.'' Yeah, then Bush looked around the room and said, ''Hey, why did it get so quiet in here?'' 
 JAY LENO
 During the vice-presidential debate, Sarah Palin would wink a couple of times when she delivered a line. Did you see that? She'd kind of wink and try to use a little sex appeal. See, the other candidates could never get away with that. Like if Barack Obama winked, that would be seen as too condescending. If Joe Biden winked, it'd be too creepy. If McCain started winking, everybody would think he was having a stroke.
 President Bush's response to the economic crisis was to meet with small business owners at a soda shop in San Antonio, Tex., this week. The bad news : the small business owners are now General Motors, General Electric, Century 21. 

GRAPHIC: COMICS (COMICS BY MIKE LUCKOVICH: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION, CREATORS SYNDICATE
MIKE SMITH: LAS VEGAS SUN, KING FEATURES SYNDICATE
NICH ANDERSON: HOUSTON CHRONICLE, WASHINGTON POST WRITERS GROUP
 ROB ROGERS: PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE, UNITED FEATURES SYNDICATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (84%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CONAN O'BRIEN (74%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JAY LENO (56%); SARAH PALIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (65%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



505 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Obama Battles Block by Block to Get Voters to Polls

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: FALLS CHURCH, Va. 

 BODY:
Lukas McGowan was sitting in an old barber's chair, a cellphone pressed to his ear, as he contemplated a critical assignment for the closing chapter of the presidential campaign: the ground game.
 The most pressing matter inside this field office for Senator Barack Obama was not the next debate or the latest scorching exchange with Senator John McCain, but getting every possible voter to the polls. As Mr. McGowan surveyed an assembly line of activity, a more immediate question popped into his mind: Have all the spots been filled in the 6 to 8 p.m. shift for walking neighborhood precincts? 
 ''When we identify sporadic voters, we want to go back to their house until they can't stand us anymore,'' said Mr. McGowan, 23, who oversees the Obama operation in Fairfax County, which is Virginia's largest. With a smile, he added, ''As long as we're kind and respectful.''
 If the primary race was an experiment in building the capacity of the Obama organization, the general election will show whether a political campaign can change the electoral map. 
 In a half-dozen states where polling suggests the candidates are deadlocked, Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, is seeking to capitalize on a grass-roots enthusiasm and an unprecedented investment of money to push the get-out-the-vote effort to a new level. His campaign is hoping to gain that edge in perennial battlegrounds like Ohio and Pennsylvania. 
 The campaign is also seeking to use its army of employees and volunteers to help shift the electoral map by putting in play states like Indiana, North Carolina and Virginia, where changing demographics combined with the challenging political environment for Republicans nationwide have given Democrats hope.
 The outcome of the next three weeks, in neighborhoods across the country, will help answer whether the organizing principles, backed by Mr. Obama's fund-raising advantage over Mr. McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, are made of myth or muscle when it comes to presidential politics.
 ''Are they a mile wide and an inch deep?'' asked Trey Walker, the McCain campaign's mid-Atlantic campaign manager, whose territory includes Virginia. ''We'll find out on Election Day.''
 Mr. Obama, whose career in public service began in community organizing in Chicago, dropped by a training session on Friday evening in Ohio. And even through his encouraging words, he sounded a note of wonder about whether the system will work.
 ''We've been designing and we've been engineering and we've been at the drawing board and we've been tinkering,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Now, it's time to just take it for a drive. Let's see how this baby runs.''
 One piece of this effort can be found in a former beauty school here along South Washington Street in the suburbs of the nation's capital. No cable television is blaring. Mr. McGowan and his team need to know only one piece of strategy: If Mr. Obama wins Virginia, a Democratic feat not achieved in 44 years, he may well win the White House. 
 These satellite offices, a campaign trademark that contributed to Mr. Obama's first victory in Iowa, have been set up with the swiftness of a Starbucks franchise. While local buy-in is encouraged at the more than 700 field offices across the country, the uniformity is remarkable, down to the cardboard cutout of Mr. Obama near the front door in many locations. 
 What started out organically -- campaign officials saw organizational promise in Virginia last year, when 20,000 signatures were gathered to make Mr. Obama the first candidate to qualify for the primary ballot -- has come full circle. Now, people driving by the storefront offices are drawn in by their visibility and put to work.
 The Obama campaign has broken the country into a collection of battleground states, which are dissected into precincts that are parceled one more time into neighborhood teams. (Ohio, for example, is divided into 1,231 neighborhoods.) And each of these teams, if the recruiting is up to speed, has a leader who, ideally, lives just down the block from all those doors that need to be knocked on.
 The concept could well be called the 2.0 version of President Bush's effort from his 2000 and 2004 campaigns, which outclassed Democrats and left them determined not to be out-organized again. It is supplemented by get-out-the-vote efforts from unions and other groups backing Mr. Obama, and it is benefiting from national trends, like growing anxiety over the economy, that favor Democrats nationwide. 
 The first piece of the ground game plan began with voter registration.
 In Virginia, the voting rolls saw a net gain of more than 300,000 people from January through Oct. 1, with even more believed to have registered in the days leading up to the deadline last Monday. And while voters in Virginia are not allowed to identify their political party, 76 percent of the new voters are 44 or younger, a figure that even Republicans concede favors Mr. Obama. 
 ''We're going to have to make sure they turn out, or we probably won't win,'' said Steve Hildebrand, a deputy campaign manager for Mr. Obama. ''They'll get extra waves of mail. They'll get extra phone calls. They will be given a lot of love.''
 In 2004, Democrats did not focus on Virginia and Mr. Bush carried the state by 262,000 votes. This year, after a competitive primary with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton that Mr. Obama won, his campaign and the party have opened about 70 campaign offices and deployed about 200 paid organizers to a state whose demographics have been steadily becoming more favorable to Democrats. Mr. Obama is also benefiting from sharing the ballot with Mark R. Warner, a fellow Democrat and popular former governor who is running for the United States Senate.
 Here in Virginia and in other electoral battlegrounds, the McCain campaign and the Republican Party responded by opening more offices than they had initially planned. But party strategists said elections were not won by the number of office locations, but by a committed core of voters who cast ballots like clockwork every four years.
 ''Because the Obama campaign gets college kids to go and stand outside a grocery store and gets anyone who comes up to them registered to vote does not mean they have a good voter registration program,'' said Mr. Walker, the McCain campaign manager in the Middle Atlantic States. ''We go fishing where the fish are.''
 For the first time, Republicans also are treating Virginia as a battleground, adapting the same get-out-the-vote program used in Florida and Ohio. All new residents are matched in a database at the Republican National Committee, so registered Republicans who move to Virginia soon have voter registration forms waiting for them and will be identified by the campaign as Republican-leaning voters.
 Ground game strategies on both sides leave little time for random door-knocking. So just like in the last two races for governor in Virginia, won by Democrats, a sophisticated battery of databases has been tapped to find voters who may be inclined to support the candidates. At the national level, Republicans have had better success at the modeling techniques, but the Obama campaign studied the Republican plan to help shape its own system of finding voters who are prone to support Mr. Obama.
 The information is culled from a variety of sources, including magazine subscriptions, the types of cars people drive, where voters shop and how much they earn. Commuting patterns are analyzed. Voting history in local races is factored in.
 The data, after it is studied and sorted at campaign headquarters in Chicago, is sent to every battleground state. The names are bar-coded and ultimately show up on the lists given to volunteers. And the theory is verified, or disproved, through conversations at doorsteps or in telephone calls where voters are identified on a scale from a No. 1 (strongly for Mr. Obama) to a No. 5 (strongly for Mr. McCain).
 Both sides will vigorously focus on those in the middle -- a large figure that neither campaign would disclose -- in the final three weeks. Also getting attention will be the voters who identified themselves as supporters of Mr. Obama and are voting for the first time or the first time in a long while.
 ''Once we register them, that's only half the job,'' Mr. McGowan said.
 While Republicans have a demonstrated record of success in turning out supporters on Election Day, members of the Obama team could hold at least one advantage: they have been through repeated election days from working on the longest primary campaign in the party's history.
 As Mr. McGowan pulled out of the parking lot of an Obama field office here to head to another one across Fairfax County, his blue-and-white license plates offered at least one added piece of credibility: they were issued in Iowa, where the journey began.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lukas McGowan, left, is focused on getting voters out on Election Day. ''Once we register them,'' he says, ''that's only half the job.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The campaign of McCain has expanded its efforts in Virginia, where Beth Raveshe has been a volunteer since May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VERONIKA LUKASOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: BATTLEGROUND VIRGINIA: If Barack Obama wins Virginia, he will be the first Democrat to do so in 44 years. In 2004, the state was considered a safe bet in the red column, and President Bush won by nine percentage points. (Sources: Virginia Board of Elections
 the campaigns) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); WALKING & JOGGING (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



506 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
THE AGE OF TURBULENCE: Adventures in a New World, by Alan Greenspan. (Penguin, $17.) Greenspan, who was chairman of the Federal Reserve Board for 18 years, presents his recollections and his views in what our reviewer, Michael Kinsley, called an ''unexpectedly charming Washington insider memoir'' by ''one of the more interesting characters in the history of our democracy.'' Greenspan started out as a professional jazz sideman (he did his bandmates' income taxes while they were smoking pot) and a member of Ayn Rand's inner circle. As the nation's top banker, Greenspan presided over a period of economic growth, although he now asserts that his support for President Bush's deficit-inducing tax cuts was misunderstood. 
 BROTHER, I'M DYING, by Edwidge Danticat. (Vintage, $14.95.) In this ''fierce, haunting book about exile and loss and family love,'' as Michiko Kakutani described it in The Times, Danticat presents a double portrait of the uncle who raised her and her brother in Haiti until she emigrated at age 12 and of her father, who became a cab driver in Brooklyn. Her uncle died after collapsing during an asylum interview in Miami; her father died soon afterward. Danticat gives the reader a sense of ''the personal consequences of the Haitian diaspora,'' Kakutani wrote, ''its impact on parents and children those who stay and those who leave.'' The book won the National Book Critics Circle award for autobiography. 
 THE SPANISH BOW, by Andromeda Romano-Lax. (Harvest/Harcourt, $15.) The protagonist of this interesting first novel is born in late-19th-century Catalonia and becomes a cellist. As he studies in anarchist Barcelona, performs at the court in Madrid and tours Europe on the eve of World War II, he meets historical figures and considers the relationship between art and politics. 
 THE SEVENTH DECADE: The New Shape of Nuclear Danger, by Jonathan Schell. (Metropolitan/Holt, $16.) The Bush administration's first-strike policy and pursuit of new weapons have caused a revolution in nuclear affairs, Schell argues. He calls for complete abolition of nuclear weapons ''as the starting point for addressing a new agenda of global action.'' 
 ON THE ROAD: WHY KEROUAC MATTERS: The Original Scroll, The Lessons of ''On the Road'' (They're Not What You Think) by Jack Kerouac. (Penguin, $16.) (Penguin, $15) This first draft, pounded out in three feverish weeks in 1951, is slightly longer than the novel that was finally published in 1957. It's essentially nonfiction, a memoir of the cross-country trips made by Kerouac between 1948 and 1950, with real names and sex scenes that were cut in the final version. The novel's editors added a lot of unnecessary commas (as well as paragraphs), and Kerouac did some self-consciously literary poeticizing; the word ''holy'' appears much more frequently in the later edition. Anyone who loves ''On the Road'' -- and it still sells about 100,000 copies a year -- will be fascinated by this original. And if you're looking for a guide, John Leland, a New York Times reporter, is an amiable one. In , he discusses what the book has to say about work, love, art and religion. 
 THE COLDEST WINTER: America and the Korean War, by David Halberstam. (Hyperion, $17.95.) Halberstam completed this book just before he was killed in a car crash last year. A straightforward history of the conflict, it is built on dozens of interviews with veterans. The war in Vietnam, whose cold-war origins Halberstam memorably addressed in ''The Best and the Brightest,'' casts its shadow on every page. 
 SLAM, by Nick Hornby. (Riverhead, $14.) Hornby's first young adult novel, about a boy who is forced to become a man, is not so different from his other novels, about men who are essentially boys. In this comedy of manners, a 16-year-old skateboarder gets his girlfriend pregnant and must deal with the consequences. 
 STEEL DRIVIN' MAN: John Henry, the Untold Story of an American Legend, by Scott Reynolds Nelson. (Oxford University, $14.95.) Historians have long speculated that the John Henry ballads, which began circulating in the 1870s, referred to a real railroad worker, and Nelson thinks he has found him -- a former Union soldier who worked on blasting tunnels through the Allegheny Mountains while a prison inmate. Nelson also recounts the history of the ballads and their hero's transformation into myth. 
 LANDING, by Emma Donoghue. (Harvest/Harcourt, $14.) In this novel about ''the intersection of love and geography,'' as one character puts it, two women, an Irish flight attendant and a Canadian historian, surmount generational, cultural and even spiritual distances to pursue their relationship. 
 HOUSE OF HAPPY ENDINGS, by Leslie Garis. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $14.) The Amherst home the author shared with her parents and grandparents, children's book writers who turned out more than 300 books including, most famously, the ''Uncle Wiggily'' tales, was ''the House of Atreus transplanted to New England,'' William Grimes wrote in The Times. Garis's account of the family's disintegration is moving and compassionate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); HISTORY (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); FAMILY (75%); TAX LAW (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (71%); LITERARY CRITICISM (68%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (63%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (73%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (68%) UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (92%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



507 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: In a City of Many Democrats, a Haven for G.O.P. Women

BYLINE: By LILY KOPPEL

 BODY:
The imposing metal elephant guarding the entrance to one of New York City's venerable buildings is appropriate -- after all, the building houses the Women's National Republican Club, one of the nation's oldest organizations of female Republicans and the only one with a clubhouse for its members. 
 Many New Yorkers have no idea that the elegant private club with its rich history even exists. The president emeritus, Lila Prounis, admitted: ''At the moment, there are very few Republicans in New York City. We feel we can never express our thoughts and we are always being attacked.'' 
 The lobby's black-and-white checkerboard floor leads to what reporters described at the building's unveiling in 1934 as a ''splendid marble stairway,'' now hung with gilt-framed oil paintings of Nancy Reagan and Henrietta Wells Livermore, the club's founder, as well as a needlepoint of George Washington. 
 On Feb. 14, 1910, 12 women gathered in Mrs. Livermore's Park Avenue home to revitalize the suffrage movement in New York State. Seven years later, the state granted women the right to vote, three years before the 19th amendment was ratified giving the right to women throughout the country.
 But having gained that right, Mrs. Livermore believed that ''women should know what they are voting about'' and conceived of the club as a meeting place for women to share their political knowledge. Its first headquarters was a loft on West 39th Street; its second was on East 37th Street.
 The current home, at 3 West 51st Street, designed by Frederick Rhinelander King, is on the site where a home belonging to Andrew Carnegie once stood. Some of the rooms are furnished in their original Colonial style with mahogany highboys and marble fireplaces that came from Mr. Carnegie's residence.
 Recently, while giving a private tour, Catherine Lenihan, 67, the club's current president, wearing a Chanel-style jacket and a pearl choker, fanned out her crimson nails, which matched the club's walls, and told a visitor of how founding members raised gold bonds during the Depression to erect the building. ''At the time when people were jumping out of windows,'' she said.
 After Sarah Palin was announced as the Republican vice-presidential candidate, the club, on its Web site, congratulated Senator John McCain for his selection. 
 ''She comes from an American family with the same problems any family like hers has,'' Ms. Lenihan said. ''She's been so busy with her campaign, but we hope to host her here.'' 
 The president emeritus, Ms. Prounis, said Ms. Palin reminded her ''of the frontier women when our country was first founded.''
 Antique porcelain elephants parade through the Pratt Lounge, named after Ruth Baker Pratt, a president of the club in the 1940s and the first congresswoman to be elected from New York, whose family gave many of the pieces of furniture that are in the room. Her portrait hangs above a mantel, staring across the room at a dark canvas of Herbert Hoover. 
 President Calvin Coolidge and his wife, Grace Coolidge, dedicated the club's library. Their photographs hang in a wood-paneled room named in their honor that leads into a banquet hall known as the Lincoln Room. A bust of Ronald Reagan was being temporarily stored on a low shelf. ''We loved Reagan,'' Ms. Lenihan said. 
 Ms. Lenihan explained that the club began at a time when most women stayed home and reared children. The club's founding members stood out as being ''like Eleanor Roosevelt, but of the other party,'' she said. ''They were strong women who faced challenges and were very involved with getting our vote.''
 Passing by a view of St. Patrick's Cathedral from the ninth-floor solarium, Ms. Lenihan said, ''You feel very close to history here.'' Clicking along in black toeless pumps, she adjusted a crooked photograph of President George W. Bush, proudly adding, ''That's our George.'' 
 Grandes dames in hats and white gloves populate many of the black-and-white photographs on the club's walls. Lillian Bendel, the wife of the fashion retailer Henri Bendel, was a chairman of the membership committee in the 1970s and early 1980s. The club has about 600 members. 
 The club has an active Women for McCain committee, which is planning to have a presence with signs outside St. Patrick's Cathedral during the Columbus Day Parade on Monday. The Henrietta Wells Livermore School of Politics sponsors a political lecture series and organizes volunteers for campaigning. 
 The club recently hosted a forum for black Republicans at which Lynn Swann, the former football star who lost to the Democrat Edward G. Rendell in the 2006 governor's race in Pennsylvania, spoke about race and November's election. 
 In the spring, at the club's annual awards dinner, the women honored Roberta McCain, John McCain's 96-year-old mother, who traveled by train from Washington. 
 ''She was a piece of work,'' said Gary Eisenberg, 47, the club's chef, who said he was delighted to have the opportunity to serve Mrs. McCain his elephant-shaped cookies. ''She was feisty, spoke her mind.'' 
 Cindy McCain, Senator McCain's wife, has also spoken at the club. 
 Under Ms. Prounis's term, men were for the first time allowed to become associate members, she added, ''of course, not with voting rights.''
 The club still serves lunch every day, but no longer under the crystal chandeliers of the dining room. A buffet is presented on doilies in the club's private pub, where Jazz Night is held every Wednesday evening. 
 Working behind the front desk, Bryant Peralta, a soft-spoken 22-year-old student at Lehman College in the Bronx, said that before working at the club, ''I didn't know anything about politics, Republicans or Democrats.'' 
 His father used to be the club's chef, and his mother was a maid there. While some of his friends are supporting Senator Barack Obama, he plans to vote for Mr. McCain because he likes ''his demeanor.''
 On a recent day, Tim Carry, 49, an executive with Fox News, shared a table at the club with friends under a portrait of President George H. W. Bush. ''It's very old New York,'' said Mr. Carry, a member of the Lambs club, which bills itself as the oldest theatrical club in the country and meets at the women's club. He joked, ''It's almost as if we are eating with George.'' 
 Like most of the city's older clubs, the Women's National Republican Club seeks to attract younger members. Since last year, the building has been undergoing renovation to comply with the city's building code. 
 ''We are watching our pennies, tightening our belts,'' said Ms. Lenihan, especially given the economic situation. McCain-Palin pins are for sale at the coat check for $1. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Catherine Lenihan, the president of the club, said its founders were ''like Eleanor Roosevelt, but of the other party.'' The group honored Senator John McCain's 96-year-old mother, Roberta McCain, in the spring.
 Republican symbols adorn the club on 51st Street. the group wants to attract younger members. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); WEB SITES (63%); PAINTING (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CLUB (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (77%); SARAH PALIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



508 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; FUNNY NUMBERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: Do Polls Lie About Race?

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
THREE weeks to Election Day and polls project a victory, possibly a big one, for Barack Obama. 
 Yet everywhere, anxious Democrats wring their hands. They've seen this Lucy-and-the-football routine before, and they're just waiting for their ball to be snatched away, the foiled Charlie Browns again. Remember how the exit polls in 2004 predicted President Kerry?
 The anxiety is more acute this year, because Senator Obama is the first African-American major-party presidential nominee. And even pollsters say they can't be sure how accurately polls capture people's feelings about race, or how forthcoming Americans are in talking about a black candidate.
 In recent days, nervous Obama supporters have traded worry about a survey -- widely disputed by pollsters yet voraciously consumed by the politically obsessed -- that concluded racial bias would cost Mr. Obama six percentage points in the final outcome. He is, of course, about six points ahead in current polls. See? He's going to lose. 
 If he does, it wouldn't be the first time that polls have overstated support for an African-American candidate. Since 1982, people have talked about the Bradley effect, where even last-minute polls predict a wide margin of victory, yet the black candidate goes on to lose, or win in a squeaker. (In the case that lent the phenomenon its name, Tom Bradley, the mayor of Los Angeles, lost his race for governor, the assumption being that voters lied to pollsters about their support for an African-American.)
 But pollsters and political scientists say concern about a Bradley effect -- some call it a Wilder effect or a Dinkins effect, and plenty call it a theory in search of data -- is misplaced. It obscures what they argue is the more important point: there are plenty of ways that race complicates polling. Considered alone or in combination, these factors could produce an unforeseen Obama landslide with surprise victories in the South, a stunningly large Obama loss, or a recount-thin margin. In a year that has already turned expectations upside down, it is hard to completely reassure the fretters.
 Among the non-Bradley factors at the intersection of race and polling is something called the reverse Bradley (perhaps more prevalent than the Bradley), in which polls understate support for a black candidate, particularly in regions where it is socially acceptable to express distrust of blacks. Then there are the voters not captured by polls. Research shows that those who refuse to participate in surveys tend to be less likely to vote for a black candidate. The race of the questioner, too, affects a poll -- but no one is sure whether people give more or less accurate answers when they're interviewed by someone of their own race. 
 ''How much we are under-representing people who are intolerant and therefore unlikely to vote for Obama is an open question,'' said Andrew Kohut, the president of Pew Research Center. ''I suspect not a great deal, but maybe some. And 'maybe some' could be crucial in a tight election.''
 In 1982, exit polls had Mayor Bradley so likely to win that newspaper headlines called him the victor. Yet he lost, narrowly. There emerged what seemed like a pattern: a number of polls found more support than there actually was for Harold Washington in the 1983 Chicago mayoral race; for David N. Dinkins in the 1989 New York mayoral race; and for L. Douglas Wilder in the 1989 Virginia governor's race. 
 Were people so afraid to appear bigoted that they lied to pollsters, thinking it more socially acceptable to support a black candidate? Pollsters and political scientists have long questioned that assumption because they do not believe people have an incentive to deceive unless they are explicitly asked, ''Do you support the white guy or the black guy?'' 
 ''We have no evidence that people lie to us,'' said Joe Lenski, executive vice president of Edison Media Research, which conducts the exit polls the television networks use. He and others say that discrepancy in the polls has more to do with which people decline to participate, or say they are undecided.
 Adam Berinsky, a political scientist at M.I.T. who has written about the ''I don't know'' voters, points out that while polls overpredicted Mr. Dinkins's support in 1989, they got it right in 1993, when he was running against the same opponent, Rudolph Giuliani. In 1989, Mr. Berinsky argues, people who feared being thought racist said ''I don't know.'' By 1993, they could find things in Mr. Dinkins's mayoral record to object to and so felt more free to express their opposition without fear of seeming racist.
 Mr. Kohut conducted a study in 1997 looking at differences between people who readily agreed to be polled and those who agreed only after one or more callbacks. Reluctant participants were significantly more likely to have negative attitudes toward blacks -- 15 percent said they had a ''very favorable'' attitude toward them, as opposed to 24 percent of the ready respondents. ''The kinds of people suspicious of surveys are also more intolerant,'' Mr. Kohut said.
 Scott Keeter, Pew's director of survey research, said pollsters had a harder time reaching voters with lower levels of education. Less-educated whites are the kind Mr. Obama has had trouble winning over. Conversely, young people are more likely to answer surveys, and they tend to favor Mr. Obama.
 There may be several factors at work: Michael Traugott, a University of Michigan professor who studies polling, argues that the Bradley effect was misnamed from the start; the problem with the polls in the 1982 race was not that they failed to capture latent racism but that they failed to account for the absentee ballots, which ultimately handed the election to the white Republican, George Deukmejian.
 Whatever its causes, the Bradley gap seems to be disappearing.
 In a new study, Daniel J. Hopkins, a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard, considered 133 elections between 1989 and 2006 and found that blacks running for office before 1996 suffered a median Bradley effect of 3 percentage points. Blacks running after 1996, however, performed about 3 percentage points better than their polls predicted. Mr. Hopkins argues that the changes in the welfare laws in 1996 and the decline of violent crime took off the table issues that had aggravated racial animosity. 
 The Bradley effect in the 2006 vote was largely absent (and in some stances a reverse effect was seen by some pollsters). In Tennessee, Harold Ford Jr., a black congressman, lost by six points. His pollster, Pete Brodnitz, said the campaign had been watching for a Bradley effect and screened carefully to make sure its own polls looked only at the people most likely to vote. Internal polls were largely correct, but some public polls, relying on a more general population, were wildly off. Mr. Brodnitz blamed bad polling, not lying. 
 In this year's Democratic primaries, University of Washington researchers found a Bradley effect in three states, but a reverse Bradley effect in 12 (in the other 17, polls were within a seven-point margin of error).
 The results tended to correlate with the black population in a state: blacks made up 15 percent or more of the population in almost all the states where the polls showed less support for Mr. Obama than there actually was; in the three states where polls showed more support than there was, less than 10 percent of the population is black. 
 The differences are too great to be explained by just high black turnout, said Anthony Greenwald, one of the researchers. Nor were people necessarily lying. Instead, he sees a cultural dynamic at work: the states where polls underpredicted support for Mr. Obama were generally in the Southeast, where the culture has more stubbornly favored whites, so the ''right'' answer there was to choose the white candidate. In the three states where polls in the study overpredicted support for Mr. Obama -- Rhode Island, California and New Hampshire -- ''the desirable thing is to appear unbiased and unprejudiced,'' Mr. Greenwald said. (Many polling experts also believe that Mr. Obama was benefiting from an Iowa bounce in the late New Hampshire polls, as Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton had been ahead for months, and that therefore Mr. Obama's loss there was not a true Bradley effect.)
 The Bradley effect, Mr. Greenwald concluded, ''has conceptually mutated.'' ''It's not something that's an absolute that we should generally expect, but something that will vary with the cultural context and the desirability of expressing pro-black attitudes.''
 A further complication is the race of the person who asks the questions. Talking to a white interviewer, blacks or whites are more likely to say that they are supporting the white candidate; talking to a black interviewer, people are more likely to support the black candidate. This holds true whether the surveys are in person, or on the phone.
 It could be that people worry about offending the interviewer by suggesting, ''I wouldn't vote for someone like you.'' Or, researchers suggest, talking to a black polltaker who sounds energetic or professional might prime positive images of blacks, overwhelming any negative stereotypes.
 The trouble is, ''We don't know that doing white-on-white interviews and black-on-black interviews would be more accurate,'' said Jon Krosnick, a professor of psychology and political science at Stanford. ''It is possible that right now the social norms within the African-American community are such that if you're going to vote for McCain, it's too embarrassing to admit, and if you're not going to vote at all, it's almost as embarrassing.''
 The question of how race affects polling is of course different from the question of how it affects the vote. Many experts argue that race does not play a huge role in either this year, because the economy has emerged as such a dominant issue, and Mr. Obama is not primarily identified by his race.
 But most of what they know, they know from polls. And even in the least complicated years, polling is a recipe with a good dash of ''Who knows?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MEN OF EFFECT: Former Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles, top, and former Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia, above, both lent their names to a voting phenomenon peculiar to black candidates. Mr. Bradley lost in a close race for governor, while Mr. Wilder won in a close race. Polls predicted that both candidates would win by large margins. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS
 GREG GIBSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) (pg.WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY THUSSFARRELL) (pg.WK1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



509 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (Nickelodeon) NICK NEWS WITH LINDA ELLERBEE: KIDS PICK THE PRESIDENT Senator Barack Obama and Senator John McCain will answer children's questions on topics including the economy, the war in Iraq, global warming, health insurance and immigration. Following the show, children will be able to vote online at nick.com/kpp. The results will be announced on Oct. 20 at 8 p.m.
 6 A.M. (TCM) MEMORIAL TRIBUTE: PAUL NEWMAN Turner Classic Movies devotes 24 hours to the films of Newman, who died on Sept. 26. The programming begins with ''The Rack'' (1956), in which he plays a Korean War veteran on trial for treason, and includes the Tennessee Williams drama ''Sweet Bird of Youth'' (1962), in which he and Geraldine Page reprise their Broadway roles, at 3:45 p.m.; ''Hud'' (1963), with him as a ruthless young rancher, at 6 p.m.; ''Cool Hand Luke'' (1967), in which he plays a member of a chain gang, at 10 p.m.; and ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof'' (1958), in which he stars as Brick to Elizabeth Taylor's Maggie the Cat, at 12:15 a.m. 
 1 P.M. (BBC America) ELEVENTH HOUR BBC America presents all four episodes of the British mini-series on which the current CBS series of the same name is based. Patrick Stewart plays the crime-solving scientist, and Ashley Jensen (''Ugly Betty'') plays his bodyguard. 
 8 P.M. (ABC) EXTREME MAKEOVER: HOME EDITION Ty Pennington and his team make over the home of Rochelle Anders, a teacher for 29 years and a 2005 winner of the Wal-Mart Teacher of the Year award, who shares her dilapidated Wisconsin home with her four children and countless other uninvited guests. 
 8 P.M. (CNBC) COLLABORATION NOW Donny Deutsch joins forces with some big thinkers in this new series to discuss the secrets to effective collaboration. Participants include Chrystia Freeland, the United States managing editor of The Financial Times; Brian Mulroney, the former prime minister of Canada; Miles Everson, a partner with PricewaterhouseCoopers; Paul S. Otellini, the chief executive of Intel; and Evan Rosen, the author of ''The Culture of Collaboration.''
 8 P.M. (CW) VALENTINE Grace (Jaime Murray) puts a temporary end to her affair with Ray (Patrick Fabian) after her husband, Ari (Greg Ellis), the god of war, returns home. 
 8 P.M. (HGTV) ENDLESS YARD SALE 2008 Steven Lee and Elyse Luray shop for bargains and treasures along a 450-mile stretch from Covington, Ky., to Gadsden, Ala.
 8 P.M. (History) BLACK BLIZZARD A look at the dust storms that ravaged the Great Plains and carried dust to the Eastern Seaboard and beyond, in the 1930s.
 9 P.M. (13) THE LAST ENEMY Part 2 of a five-part ''Masterpiece Contemporary'' mini-series about an expatriate mathematician who returns to Britain to find his homeland transformed into a surveillance society rife with terrorists, fugitives, spies and not a few paranoiacs. Benedict Cumberbatch and Robert Carlyle star.
 9 P.M. (ABC) DESPERATE HOUSEWIVES Bree's estranged daughter, Danielle (Joy Lauren), returns to Wisteria Lane; a catfight erupts between Gaby (Eva Longoria Parker) and Susan (Teri Hatcher); and Lynette (Felicity Huffman) discovers that Tom (Doug Savant) has formed a garage band. 
 9 P.M. (CW) EASY MONEY Dr. Bowers (Peter Bogdanovich) thinks he may have answers regarding questions Morgan (Jeff Hephner) has about his past, including whether he's really related to his family.
 9 P.M. (VH1) ROCK OF LOVE CHARM SCHOOL Sharon Osbourne imparts the wisdom she's gleaned as Ozzy's woman and tutors another crop of tough girls from ''Rock of Love'' in how to behave like ladies. 
 10 P.M. (13) THE TRIAL OF SADDAM HUSSEINIn this ''America at a Crossroads'' documentary, Robert MacNeil examines the courtroom drama at the trial of Iraq's former president, left, and the challenges facing the country as it tries to establish a healthy government.
 10 P.M. (AMC) MAD MEN Don (Jon Hamm) travels to Los Angeles for business and makes some friends. Peggy (Elisabeth Moss) flirts with the idea of an office romance. And Duck (Mark Moses) mulls his future at Sterling Cooper.
 10 P.M. (HBO) ENTOURAGE Ari (Jeremy Piven) wagers on a role for Vince (Adrian Grenier) in a golf game. Dom (Domenick Lombardozzi) is arrested after causing a televised car chase and asks Vince to bail him out, but Eric (Kevin Connolly) is the only one who can afford it. And Turtle (Jerry Ferrara) goes to work as the personal assistant of Drama (Kevin Dillon). KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (75%); TREASON (74%); KOREAN WAR (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); FILM (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (62%); WRITERS (60%); IMMIGRATION (57%); HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); GLOBAL WARMING (57%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%); INTEL CORP (51%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (51%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (51%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); PAUL S OTELLINI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



510 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Jitters Are Setting In for States Giving Big Incentives to Lure Film Producers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Already on the hook for billions to bail out Wall Street, taxpayers are also finding themselves stuck with a growing tab for state programs intended to increase local film production.
One of the most shocking bills has come due in Louisiana, where residents are financing a hefty share of Brad Pitt's next movie -- $27,117,737, to be exact, which the producers will receive by cashing or selling off valuable tax credits.
As the number of movies made under these plans multiplied in recent years, the state money turned into a welcome rescue plan for Hollywood at a time when private investors were fleeing the movies. But the glamour business has not always been kind to those who pick up the costs, and states are moving to rein in their largess that has allowed producers to be reimbursed for all manner of expenditures, whether the salaries of stars, the rental of studio space or meals for the crew. 
Louisiana, one of the most assertive players in the subsidy game, wound up covering that outsize piece of the nearly $167 million budget of Mr. Pitt's ''The Curious Case of Benjamin Button'' -- the state's biggest movie payout to date -- when producers for Paramount Pictures and Warner Brothers qualified the coming movie, a special-effects drama, under an incentive that has since been tightened. Separately, Louisiana's former film commissioner is set to be sentenced in January to as much as 15 years in federal prison for taking bribes to inflate film budgets (though not that of ''Button'') and, hence, pay higher subsidies.
Michigan, its own budget sagging, is in the middle of a hot political fight over a generous 40 percent rebate on expenditures to filmmakers that was carried out, with little opposition, only last April. Producers of films for studios like Warner Brothers and the Weinstein Company rushed to cash in, just as homegrown businesses were squeezed by a new business tax and surcharge. Rebellious legislators from both parties are now looking to put a cap on the state's annual film spending, which some have estimated could quickly hit $200 million a year.
In Rhode Island, meanwhile, the rules have toughened considerably. That happened after The Providence Journal reported in March that producers of a straight-to-DVD picture called ''Hard Luck,'' which starred Wesley Snipes and Cybill Shepherd, had picked up $2.65 million in state tax credits on a budget of $11 million, even though it had reported paying only $1.9 million of the total to Rhode Islanders.
''With this much money involved, there's going to be a temptation to hype budgets,'' said Peter Dekom, a veteran entertainment business lawyer who is an adviser to New Mexico's incentive program.
The vogue for state film subsidies appears to have started in Colorado early this decade, with a briefly financed Defense Against Canada law that was devised to win production back from Vancouver and Toronto. Louisiana and New Mexico soon came on board.
By this year, about 40 states were offering significant subsidies, turning the United States into what the Incentives Office, a consulting firm in Santa Monica, Calif., has called the New Bulgaria. It is a reference to what was once the film industry's favorite low-cost production site.
Virtually all of the programs use a state tax system to reimburse producers for money spent on movies or TV shows shot in the state. Some, like Michigan's, simply refund a percentage of expenditures to the producer. Others, like Louisiana's, issue a tax credit that can reduce the taxes a production pays or be sold to someone else. Either way, the state gives up revenue that otherwise would be collected to put money in the producer's pockets.
Advocates, of course, argue that these programs create jobs.
One of the country's most successful programs is in New Mexico, which has backed movies like the Oscar-winning ''No Country for Old Men'' and next year's ''Terminator Salvation,'' the latest sequel in the action series, with a reported budget of $200 million.
New Mexico officials boast of having used a 25 percent production cost rebate to build a local film industry that has attracted more than $600 million in direct spending since 2003, and an estimated $1.8 billion in total financial impact, as of last June. And in fiscal year 2008, the productions in the state generated 142,577 days of employment, up from 25,293 in 2004.
Elsewhere, however, critics have sharply challenged the notion that state subsidies for the film business can ever buy more than momentary glitter.
''There's no evidence yet that this is a particularly efficient or effective way to create jobs,'' said Noah Berger, executive director of the Massachusetts Budget and Policy Center.
The nonprofit center reviews budget and tax policies in Massachusetts, which is spending about $60 million a year on producer credits. A recent study by Mr. Berger's center pointed out that the state's film credit, at 25 percent, is five times higher than that offered to those who build in designated economic opportunity areas, and more than eight times the state's standard investment tax credit.
Until two years ago, Louisiana's program offered a 15 percent credit for virtually the entire budget of a qualified film (and more for Louisiana resident wages), including money that may have been spent out of state. Things were fast and loose enough in Louisiana that Mark Smith, who oversaw the program, pleaded guilty last year to taking $67,500 in bribes to inflate budgets for a film production company that was not named by the authorities.
Kathy English, a spokeswoman for the United States attorney's office in New Orleans, said the case remained open.
Louisiana's new rules offer a larger credit, but only on spending within the state. That made the incentive less attractive for big-budget movies, like ''Button,'' which was done under old rules, and could recover parts of star salaries and other expenses that left Louisiana. But it has drawn a welter of smaller movies and TV shows, 70 of which have been shot so far in 2008, up from 56 the year before.
''All areas of the state have prospered as a result; everyone sees it,'' said Sherri McConnell, director of Louisiana's Office of Entertainment Industry Development. (Ms. McConnell said she did not expect to have a detailed picture of economic impact until the completion of a planned study, early next year.)
Others are not so sure. ''There's no way you can say this makes money for the public'' treasury, said Greg Albrecht, chief economist for Louisiana's legislative fiscal office.
In 2006, the last year for which it has complete figures, the state granted about $121 million in credits. Mr. Albrecht estimates that only about 18 percent of that is ever recovered in taxes on expanded economic activity.
''It's an expensive way to create jobs,'' Mr. Albrecht said. But he noted that Louisiana, like New Mexico, can afford it, thanks to rising oil and gasoline revenue. ''We're happy as larks right now to do this.''
Not so happy are some folks up in Michigan, where a State Senate committee recently moved to cap the state's film rebates at an aggregate of $50 million a year.
''It's just horrible right now,'' Mike Bishop, a Republican state senator, said of Michigan's financial condition. Mr. Bishop initially backed the film incentive. But he grew alarmed at outlays that he estimated could quickly exceed $110 million a year to subsidize movies like ''Gran Torino,'' directed by Clint Eastwood, and ''Youth in Revolt,'' a comedy by the filmmaker Miguel Arteta.
Anthony Wenson, chief operating officer of the Michigan Film Office, said the actual amount of credits granted was only about $25 million so far. The annual number is impossible to reckon, he said, because plans for future projects are in flux.
In any case, Nancy Cassis, another Republican who was the only Michigan senator to oppose the incentives when they began last spring, said she expected to see them capped with bipartisan backing later this year. And she does not look for Hollywood to hang around when the money dries up.
''These are not long-term jobs,'' Ms. Cassis said. ''If just one state offers more, they'll be out of here before you can say 'lickety-split.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Josh Brolin in the 2007 film ''No Country for Old Men,'' which was produced in New Mexico. The vacant set for ''Terminator Salvation,'' outside Albuquerque. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REX C. CURRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICK SCIBELLI JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A26)
 Roger DeKay of Louisiana Wave Studio draining a 750,000- gallon pool to prepare it for a coming film production. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REX C. CURRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SENTENCING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); BRIBERY (64%); PRISONS (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); SALES REBATES (58%)

COMPANY: WEINSTEIN CO LLC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011



511 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Despot Watch

BYLINE: By GARY J. BASS. 
Gary J. Bass, a Princeton professor, is the author of ''Freedom's Battle: The Origins of Humanitarian Intervention.''

 BODY:
THE FREEDOM AGENDA
 Why America Must Spread Democracy (Just Not the Way George Bush Did)
 By James Traub
 262 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25
 Unfreedom is on the march. Freedom House's annual report for 2007 grimly noted that there had been reversals for liberty in one-fifth of the world's countries, including places like Egypt, Kenya and Venezuela, as well as both Russia and Georgia. China's one-party state, which props up brutal governments in Myanmar, Sudan and Zimbabwe, has been preening in the Olympic spotlight. And Russia is on the march in a totally nonmetaphorical way. 
 In his second Inaugural Address, George W. Bush thundered, ''It is the policy of the United States to seek and support the growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation and culture, with the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world.'' Instead, the bloody fiasco in Iraq threatens to discredit the whole enterprise of democratization -- particularly if done by Americans. As James Traub asks in ''The Freedom Agenda,'' his fast-paced and absorbing new book: ''How, today, can we promote anything, much less democracy?'' 
 Traub is a contributing writer for The Times Magazine who works half time as director of policy for the Global Center for the Responsibility to Protect. He very much wants to promote democracy, and his book is a penitent but determined exercise in salvaging that idea from Bush's ''Wilsonianism of the right.'' The trick is to do this without sounding like a Menshevik explaining how the Soviets never really tried socialism properly, but Traub, who is relentlessly fair-minded, carries it off. 
 He doesn't romanticize democracy, admitting its weakness in many poor African countries and noting, in contradiction to Bush's fondest hopes, that the democratic Philippines produces many terrorists. Nor does he yearn for a democratic crusade: '' 'Democracy promotion' is too aggressive by half, and its history over the last century counsels modest expectations.'' He knows well that democracy promotion usually means diplomatic pressure, economic incentives or aid targeted at political parties, unions and civic groups. But under Bush, he complains, ''we have bristled with terrible force, and beckoned to an almost magical realm of possibility'' of global democratization. No wonder so many countries have slowly backed away, trying not to make any sudden moves. 
 Most of Traub's book is a wary but ultimately hopeful exploration of American experiments in spreading democracy. He starts with the Philippines after 1898, which could be read as a rough preview of Iraq: American overlords preaching self-rule while privately fearing that the outcome would mean civil war -- as well as waging a horrific counterinsurgency war in which an estimated 220,000 Filipinos died. Traub properly cheers the creation of democratic Germany and Japan. But his own enthusiasms worry him: ''There's a reason the term Wilsonian conjures up naivete and recklessness as much as it does moral commitment.'' 
 Bush is hardly the first president to fall short of his oratory. Traub sketches Jimmy Carter as timorous about Iran and clueless about Nicaragua, and Ronald Reagan as pushed by White House anti-Communist zealots into backing despots in Chile, Zaire and Indonesia. And yet, from the 1970s onward, amazing things started happening in the unlikeliest places: right-wing dictatorships in southern Europe bit the dust, followed by military tyrants across Latin America and then, in 1989, the Soviet-backed Communist governments across Eastern and Central Europe. In the 1990s, many authoritarian governments in sub-Saharan Africa crumbled. By 1998, America had democracy programs in more than 100 countries. The Harvard scholar Samuel P. Huntington noted that from 1974 to 1989, democracy trounced dictatorship in almost 30 countries, from South Korea to Poland. The Clinton administration, freed from cold war pressures to indulge anti-Communist autocrats, enshrined democracy promotion as a key part of national security doctrine, since democracies almost never attack one another. Huntington hailed ''an almost irresistible global tide moving on from one triumph to the next.'' 
 Not quite. There was one region that remained stubbornly locked in authoritarianism: the Middle East. From Warsaw or Prague, America might look like a stalwart foe of totalitarianism; from Cairo or Islamabad, America seemed more like an opportunistic tool of the local tyrant. After 9/11, George W. Bush, who had previously ''maintained a scrupulous ignorance of the world beyond our borders,'' decided that reforming Middle Eastern societies was the key to stopping terrorism. Traub notes, ''What happened inside states was now a matter of national security.'' 
 Traub flatly writes, ''The United States did not go to war in Iraq in order to democratize the Middle East.'' Still, if Iraq's nonexistent weapons of mass destruction dominated White House decisions, democratic transformation was to be the war's ''great consequence.'' Whatever had been learned about democratization over the past century was largely shrugged off by the White House. Some of the most distinguished democracy experts, including Thomas Carothers, thought Iraq -- ethnically fractured, with a decimated civil society and a grisly history of oppression -- was one of the least likely countries to sustain democracy. Still, encouraged by democratic movements in Ukraine and Lebanon, Bush called for the end of tyranny everywhere -- a breathtakingly radical vision. 
 It flickered out almost immediately. Having pushed for open elections in Egypt and the Palestinian territories, the administration was startled when those ballots were won by Islamists. Traub devotes a withering chapter to Egypt, where, after sham votes and crackdowns, ''the Americans would emit a mild bleat of protest.'' In nuclear-armed Pakistan, the White House preferred Pervez Musharraf to the risk of radical Islamists winning power. Worse, the raging civil war in Iraq gave Arab autocrats a perfect excuse to hang tough: better me than that. As in the cold war, fears about national security trumped Bush's recent rhetoric about democracy. By late 2007, Traub writes, ''the Freedom Agenda had disappeared into the war on terror.'' 
 What now? For a start, America must get its own house in order. Traub is blistering on American torture of detainees, correctly tracing it back to Bush's own decision to duck the Geneva Conventions. Interviewing senior administration officials, Traub finds them oddly oblivious about what torture has done to America's image in the Middle East and far beyond. One tells him that the idea that anger at America hurts its ability to promote democracy is ''a dictator's argument.'' 
 Traub is somewhat less effusive about foreign influence than Timothy Garton Ash, who has argued that Pope John Paul II and the human rights principles of the Helsinki Final Act helped democratization in Poland; or Huntington, who suggests that America helped democratize countries like Panama, the Philippines, South Korea and more. Traub sensibly argues that foreigners can do much more to influence Mali or Zambia than they can Russia or China. One of his success stories is American support for Serbian democrats, who ousted Slobodan Milosevic after he tried to steal an election in 2000. He's impressed with Barack Obama's calls for curbing global poverty as well as authoritarianism. With so many other Western democracies and civil society organizations busily at work, and with the lure of the European Union a powerful force for democratization, Traub wants Washington to stop alienating the rest of the world by touting democracy as uniquely American -- doubly wise given how globally despised America currently is. 
 Appalled by Bush's hubris, Traub still sees the need to protect individual rights by building liberal democracy, but in a ''more honest, more modest, more generous'' way. Many new democracies have stalled in their liberalization, hampered by corruption, public disenchantment, ill-functioning states or foolish social and economic policies. Traub understands that democracy should mean more than just elections; it should also mean the rule of law, individual freedoms, checks and balances, accountability and civilian control of the security forces. This book is a nuanced guide for reaching a complicated, differentiated world. After Bush's certitudes, this is oddly thrilling.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American troops advancing for an attack on Manila during the Spanish-American War. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); POLITICS (68%); WRITERS (66%); CIVIL WAR (66%); TERRORISM (62%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOM HOUSE (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (67%) UNITED STATES (97%); PHILIPPINES (93%); EGYPT (92%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (92%); GEORGIA (90%); KENYA (88%); MYANMAR (79%); SUDAN (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); AFRICA (79%)

TITLE: Freedom Agenda, The (Book)>; Freedom Agenda, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



512 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Regulators In Need Of Rehab

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
STOCK market investors, even more than the average Jane, hate unpleasant surprises. Unfortunately, as last week showed, this bailout business is chock full of them. 
 Consider the backstop recently provided to the American International Group, the beleaguered insurer. On Sept. 16, the Treasury Department told taxpayers to lend $85 billion to it. Last Wednesday, we had to cough up another $37.2 billion to keep the company operating. As part of a new lending facility announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, our stake in A.I.G. now approaches $122 billion.
 That, you may recall, is more than triple the $40 billion that A.I.G. requested when it went on life support in mid-September. As a ''Saturday Night Live'' comedy skit last week about the A.I.G. bailout put it so memorably: ''Oh my God, are you serious!?! Really!?!''
 Then there was the midweek switcheroo by Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary. Instead of unfurling his original $700 billion taxpayer ''troubled asset relief program,'' or TARP, to buy crippled mortgage securities, Mr. Paulson decided that the program would now take direct ownership stakes in banks. 
 Those little turnabouts reveal a couple of things. First, money sure goes fast these days. (Good thing Uncle Sam's printing presses are oiled and ready to roll.) Second, regulators are making up rules for these emergency programs as they go.
 That is not necessarily bad. The TARP was, after all, full of holes. A particularly gaping one: how much taxpayers would pay for troubled mortgages. Many were rightly suspicious that the government would pony up too much money in order to bolster banks trying to jettison the junk. 
 But the new direct investment plan raises questions, too. Who will decide which banks receive help and which won't? And what standards will be used to reach those decisions?
 Apparently such decisions will fall to Neel T. Kashkari, assistant Treasury secretary for financial stability, and brand-new overseer of the $700 billion bailout. A former banker at Goldman Sachs, Mr. Kashkari, 35, is just six years out of business school. 
 That's a good bit of power for a young man to wield, don't you think? Sure, he's smart and he will probably have help from others at Treasury, starting with Mr. Paulson. But choosing which financial institutions live and which die will be an interesting process to watch.
 The more transparent this process is, of course, the less suspicious taxpayers will be about its outcome. Alas, transparency has not been a priority for Mr. Paulson or any of his partners at the Fed throughout this crisis. 
 And that has created the biggest problem for regulators right now: at precisely the moment they are entrusted with breathtaking powers, investors' and taxpayers' trust in them is at a nadir. 
 WORLD financial markets operate on confidence, we can all agree. You trust that I will deliver shares when you buy them from me. Your broker trusts that you will send in a check to cover the purchase of municipal bonds you just made. 
 But the leading lights of finance, whether in Washington or on Wall Street, have completely squandered any trust that taxpayers may have had in them. Earning it back is going to take time and a commitment to transparency. 
 One reason the trust deficit looms so large is that the same people who are scrambling to reassure investors with bold actions were as recently as July telling investors that everything was hunky-dory. 
 Here is Mr. Paulson, quoted by The Associated Press, on July 20: ''It's a safe banking system, a sound banking system. Our regulators are on top of it. This is a very manageable situation.''
 Let's rewind further, to early May. Mr. Paulson allowed that the worst was ''likely'' to be behind us. ''There's no doubt that things feel better today, by a lot, than they did in March,'' he said.
 His take on May 16, when the Dow Jones industrial average stood at 12,986, was as follows: ''Looking forward, I expect that financial markets will be driven less by the recent turmoil and more by broader economic conditions and, specifically, by the recovery of the housing sector.''
 My personal favorites, however, involve a much broader cast of characters than just Mr. Paulson. In the first half of 2007, almost every senior regulator assured us that troubles in the mortgage markets would be ''contained'' to subprime loans. 
 (A tip of the hat to Joan McCullough, market commentator extraordinaire at East Shore Partners, for gathering those nuggets.)
 There are a few straight talkers in the regulatory regime, of course. One is Gary H. Stern, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and co-author of ''Too Big to Fail: The Hazards of Bank Bailouts.'' In a speech last Thursday, Mr. Stern expressed deep unease over the consequences of using taxpayer money to rescue big and reckless financial institutions. 
 ''The too-big-to-fail problem, with which I have long been concerned, has been exacerbated by actions taken over the past year to bolster financial stability,'' he said, according to his prepared remarks. While conceding that the recent lifelines were appropriate, given the circumstances, he said that ''it is critical that we address 'too big to fail' because, if left unchecked, it could well be a major source of future instability.''
 Mr. Stern's solution is an approach he calls ''systemic focused supervision.'' It involves ''early identification, enhanced prompt corrective action and stability-related communication.''
 First, regulators would identify what Mr. Stern described as ''material exposures between large financial institutions and between these institutions and capital markets.'' In other words, regulators would know where the fault lines are before the earthquake begins. And they would be better able to assess which institutions require support and which could be cut loose. 
 Prompt corrective action is the second leg of the stool. 
 ''Closing banks while they still have positive capital, or at most a small loss, can reduce spillovers in a fairly direct way,'' Mr. Stern said. ''If a bank's failure does not impose large losses, by definition it cannot directly threaten the viability of other institutions that have exposure to it.''
 Finally, he said, regulators must communicate the actions they are taking. Otherwise, market participants might continue to believe that bailouts are coming, because policy makers had not advised them to the contrary, Mr. Stern said.
 In other words, be transparent and communicate details on supervisory activities early and often. 
 MR. STERN made this conclusion: Supervisors must ''maintain a strong grasp of the operational activities and the inherent risk profile of the financial institutions they supervise as well as the risk management systems these firms employ.'' 
 The success of such a program, he emphasized, depends on its not becoming ''an appendage to 'routine' supervision.'' 
 It is indeed unfortunate that it took a calamity of this measure to restore an appreciation for vigilant regulators. Putting Mr. Stern's ideas into action may require a complete overhaul. But the sooner we get started on that Herculean task, the better. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gary H. Stern, a co-author of the book ''Too Big to Fail.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAWN VILLELLA/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (59%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



513 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3196 words

HEADLINE: Pork-Barrel Insider Drained Missile-Defense Millions

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
They huddled in a quiet corner at the US Airways lounge at Ronald Reagan National Airport, sipping bottomless cups of coffee as they plotted to turn America's missile defense program into a personal cash machine. 
 Michael Cantrell, an engineer at the Army Space and Missile Defense Command headquarters in Huntsville, Ala., along with his deputy, Doug Ennis, had lined up millions of dollars from Congress for defense companies. Now, Mr. Cantrell decided, it was time to take a cut. 
 ''The contractors are making a killing,'' Mr. Cantrell recalled thinking at the meeting, in 2000. ''The lobbyists are getting their fees, and the contractors and lobbyists are writing out campaign checks to the politicians. Everybody is making money here -- except us.''
 Within months, Mr. Cantrell began getting personal checks from contractors and later returned to the airport with Mr. Ennis to pick up a briefcase stuffed with $75,000. The two men eventually collected more than $1.6 million in kickbacks, through 2007, prompting them to plead guilty this year to corruption charges. 
 Mr. Cantrell readily acknowledges concocting the crime. But what has drawn little scrutiny are his activities leading up to it. Thanks to important allies in Congress, he extracted nearly $350 million for projects the Pentagon did not want, wasting taxpayer money on what would become dead-end ventures.
 Recent scandals involving former Representative Randy Cunningham, Republican of California, and the lobbyist Jack Abramoff, both now in prison, provided a glimpse into how special interests manipulate the federal government. 
 Mr. Cantrell's story, by contrast, pieced together from federal documents and dozens of interviews, is a remarkable account of how a little-known, midlevel Defense Department insider who spent his entire career in Alabama skillfully gamed the system.
 Mr. Cantrell worked in a division that was a small part of the national missile defense program. Determined to save his job, he often bypassed his bosses and broke department rules to make his case on Capitol Hill. He enlisted contractors to pitch projects that would keep the dollars flowing and paid lobbyists to ease them through. He cultivated lawmakers, who were eager to send money back home or to favored contractors and did not ask many questions. And when he ran into trouble, he could count on his powerful friends for protection from Pentagon officials who provided little oversight and were afraid of alienating lawmakers.
 Senator Ted Stevens, the Alaska Republican, for example, chewed out Pentagon officials who opposed a missile range Mr. Cantrell and his contractor allies were seeking to build in Alaska, prompting them to back off, while a staffer for former Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, intervened when the Pentagon threatened to discipline Mr. Cantrell for lobbying, a banned activity for civil servants.
 ''I could go over to the Hill and put pressure on people above me and get something done,'' Mr. Cantrell explained about his success in Washington. ''With the Army, as long as the senator is not calling over and complaining, everything is O.K. And the senator will not call over and complain unless the contractor you're working with does not get his money. So you just have to keep the players happy and it works.''
 The national missile defense program has cost the United States more than $110 billion since President Ronald Reagan unveiled his Star Wars plan 25 years ago. Today, the missile defense effort is the Pentagon's single biggest procurement program.
 The Army declined to discuss the Cantrell case, other than to say it had taken steps to try to prevent similar crimes from happening again.
 But some current and former Defense Department officials say the exploiting of the system that preceded Mr. Cantrell's kickback scheme has had a damaging impact, slowing progress toward building a viable missile defense system by diverting money to unnecessary or wasteful endeavors. That pattern of larding up the defense budget with pet projects pushed by lawmakers and lobbyists is a familiar one.
 ''What they did may have been a scandal,'' said Walter E. Braswell, Mr. Ennis's lawyer, referring to the actions of his client and Mr. Cantrell. ''But even more grotesque is the way defense procurement has disintegrated into an incestuous relationship between the military, politicians and contractors.''
 Dr. J. Richard Fisher, one of Mr. Cantrell's former bosses, said: ''The system needs to change. But it is not likely to do that. There is just too much inertia -- and too much self-interest.''
 Getting Around the System
 Towering over the highway near the entrance to Huntsville is a replica of the Saturn V rocket, the powerful missile that lifted the first man to the moon. 
 Created in Huntsville, it is a fitting icon for this once-sleepy cotton mill town, now so dominated by the aerospace industry that it is nicknamed Rocket City. An estimated 18,000 uniformed and civilian federal employees work in the aerospace industry in the Huntsville area today, augmented by about 40,000 others, who work for federal contractors. 
 Michael Cantrell grew up on a dairy farm nearby, listening to the rumble of rocket test flights. As a young engineer, he became a civilian employee of the Army and quickly impressed his bosses. ''Mike moved at the speed of sound,'' said Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, who briefly headed the missile command.
 By 1990, Mr. Cantrell, then 35, took over an experimental program to develop faster, cheaper and lighter missiles that could intercept and knock out enemy missiles flying within the atmosphere. Under the Reagan administration, money was plentiful for such research, but with the fall of the Soviet Union and the arrival of the Clinton administration, Pentagon bosses were forced to make budget cuts. 
 Like other Army employees, Mr. Cantrell was prohibited from lobbying or even visiting Capitol Hill unless he had permission from his agency's Congressional liaison, a prohibition intended to block employees from promoting initiatives that Pentagon leaders did not see as a priority. 
 But General Garner said it was obvious to his managers what they had to do if they did not want their programs -- and jobs -- eliminated.
 ''If the money does not end up in the palm and you need it,'' he said in an interview, ''the only other place you can go to get it is the Congress.'' 
 Soon enough, Army missile program managers started opening what amounted to their own lobbying shops in Washington, according to Mr. Cantrell and his former supervisors.
 Mr. Cantrell became a regular on Capitol Hill, both in the halls of Congress and in the bars and restaurants where Hill staffers gather after hours. He set up a makeshift office in the US Airways lounge at Reagan National Airport, where he followed up on pitches for money to lawmakers and hid out from his Defense Department bosses. He identified lobbyists who could prove useful and contractors -- many of them campaign donors -- with projects that needed nurturing.
 With the backing of the New York Congressional delegation, for example, he blocked cuts in financing for a sophisticated wind tunnel in Buffalo, where he promised to test his missile components. With help from then Representative Curt Weldon, Republican of Pennsylvania, who wanted Army assistance for a ''technology corridor'' in his district, Mr. Cantrell managed to get millions more for his program. Eventually, a dozen or so lawmakers helped him. 
 ''It was like I was going hunting in Washington,'' Mr. Cantrell said. ''And I would always come up with money.'' One colleague was so impressed with Mr. Cantrell's record that she gave him a bobblehead doll carrying a briefcase marked with dollar signs.
 The Pentagon had objected to Mr. Cantrell's financing requests, but he was not discouraged. ''He kept trying to kill our programs,'' Mr. Cantrell said of one supervisor. But ''we would go around'' and get a lawmaker ''to whack him.'' 
 Inspired by his successes, Mr. Cantrell soon embarked on a more ambitious project that would all but guarantee sustained financing.
 His proposal, which was based on the premise that Congress would significantly increase annual financing for his experimental missile defense work, involved not just five test launchings, but the construction of a new launching site on a remote Alaskan island and the lease of a mothballed Navy helicopter carrier, which would be used to send the simulated attack missile. 
 The Launching Project
 It was easy to find willing partners.
 The program's main contractors, including the defense giant Lockheed Martin, prepared presentations for Congress making the case for an extra $25 million to $50 million a year for the project. 
 Officials in Alaska, who had been seeking money for a spaceport on Kodiak Island to launch commercial satellites, eagerly chimed in. And nearly a dozen lawmakers also did their part, Mr. Cantrell said, including Senator Stevens of Alaska; Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama; Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine; and Representative C. W. Bill Young, Republican of Florida, all members of the Appropriations or Armed Services committees with missile defense contractors in their districts. 
 But the military already had rocket launching sites around the globe, and Gen. Lester L. Lyles of the Air Force, who then ran the missile defense program, had no intention of spending money on another one.
 General Lyles and his deputy, Rear Adm. Richard D. West of the Navy, were particularly incensed when they learned of the plans to lease the helicopter carrier, the Tripoli, and spend several million dollars renovating it.
 Summoned to Washington in 1997 to explain the project, Mr. Cantrell offered little information. That only further infuriated his bosses.
 ''Who in the hell is in charge of this program?'' Admiral West finally demanded in an exchange both men recall.
 Mr. Cantrell was ordered to remove his experimental equipment from the planned launching. But the money kept coming. Mr. Stevens's office had called to insist that the Kodiak project proceed, Admiral West and Lt. Gen. Edward G. Anderson, then the head of Army Space and Missile Defense Command, said in interviews.
 ''I got hammered pretty hard,'' Admiral West recalled. The military men backed off, and the construction at Kodiak continued. 
 Mr. Cantrell said he knew that building a new launching facility was wasteful. ''It doesn't make sense,'' he said. ''The economics of it, they just don't work.''
 But he did not care.
 ''I went up there to get the money,'' Mr. Cantrell said of his dealings on Capitol Hill. ''And we got what we needed.''
 Mr. Cantrell and his deputy, Mr. Ennis, visited Kodiak Island on the afternoon of the inaugural test launching in November 1998. The Air Force had substituted other equipment for Mr. Cantrell's payload.
 The two men, armed with a cooler filled with Miller Lite beer, watched the launching from a trailer, emerging just in time to see the missile burn an orange streak into the sky. They had hidden out to avoid any local newspaper reporters who might discover that Mr. Cantrell's missile parts -- the justification for millions of dollars in spending -- were not even being tested. ''There is no way we can explain this,'' Mr. Cantrell remembered telling Mr. Ennis.
 Fearless
 The hand that grabbed Mr. Cantrell by the shoulder startled him. 
 It was General Lyles, who happened to be on Capitol Hill when he spotted Mr. Cantrell outside Mr. Lott's office. It was February 1998, even before the dispute over the Alaska project had played out. But the general said he immediately suspected Mr. Cantrell was up to no good.
 ''Are you over here lobbying?'' General Lyles asked in an exchange the two men recalled.
 Mr. Cantrell had been working with Mr. Lott, then Senate majority leader, for several years. The lawmaker included several million dollars in the defense budget for an acoustics research center in his home state, and Mr. Cantrell made sure it went to the intended recipients: the University of Mississippi in Oxford and a Huntsville defense contractor that had a branch office in Oxford. In turn, Mr. Lott's office helped get extra financing -- $25 million or so every year -- for Mr. Cantrell's program.
 It was an arrangement that Mr. Cantrell did not want to discuss with General Lyles. While he did not consider himself to have been lobbying that day, he readily acknowledges that he often did. 
 ''I just mumbled a lot,'' he recalled of his response to the general.
 By then, Mr. Cantrell felt confident that he could find his way out of any trouble with the help of his many friends in Washington. Several were lobbyists or consultants working on his behalf; he had /placed them with friendly contractors, allowing them to bill the government for the costs, even though federal law prohibits paying any expenses associated with lobbying. 
 For example, Mr. Cantrell arranged for James Longley, a former Republican congressman from Maine who started his own consulting firm, to be hired as an employee by Computer Systems Technology, a missile defense contractor.
 ''The man could put 'honorable' in front of his name and go places with that,'' Mr. Cantrell explained, saying that Mr. Longley introduced him to lawmakers and appealed to senior Pentagon officials to protect Mr. Cantrell's program.
 Mr. Longley, in an interview, insisted that he never sought money from Congress, but simply provided strategic advice to Mr. Cantrell.
 But several people, including Dr. Fisher, one of Mr. Cantrell's bosses, thought the arrangement improper.
 ''Here is an ex-congressman out there promoting Mike's programs,'' Dr. Fisher said. ''He can call himself what he wants, but he is basically a lobbyist.''
 The incident with General Lyles prompted a formal investigation into Mr. Cantrell's activities that same year. 
 But Mr. Cantrell got Mr. Longley to call Army officials. Then Mr. Lott's office requested that the case be closed, Mr. Cantrell said. Eric Womble, a former aide to Mr. Lott, said he could not remember taking such a step, but added that it would not have been surprising.
 ''Senator Lott's staff protects people who are trying to help us and help the nation,'' Mr. Womble said.
 Soon, the investigation of Mr. Cantrell came to a close. He got only an oral warning from his boss.
 That episode would embolden Mr. Cantrell. On several occasions, he would again be caught violating Pentagon rules and each time escape with nothing more than a reprimand. 
 ''If you have the Senate majority leader's office calling over to get you out of trouble, you can't help but get a little cocky,'' Mr. Cantrell said.
 The Fallout
 From the US Airways club, Mr. Cantrell could see the symphony of the arriving and departing planes, the Potomac River and off in the distance, the Capitol dome.
 One day in 2000, Mr. Cantrell met in the airport lounge with Mr. Ennis, his deputy, and a Maine contractor to figure out how to pocket some of the government's money.
 There were easy ways to cheat. The prototype missile nose cone and heat shields that the Army had paid the Maine company to design for the Alaska tests. Why not hire the business to pretend to design them again? Mr. Cantrell asked. 
 The ballute -- an odd cross between a balloon and a parachute -- had been rejected by experts as a tool to strike an enemy missile. But why not pay the Maine company to develop them anyway? Mr. Cantrell suggested.
 He could pull off such shenanigans because, by then, he had an extraordinary degree of independence. Mr. Cantrell's experimental missile program, which had cost nearly $250 million, was about to be canceled. No working missile system had been built -- and almost none of the components had ended up being tested in real launchings as planned. The effort had produced some benefits for the players involved: Congress sent an annual allotment of extra money to the Alaska launching site now totaling more than $40 million, and one of the contractors that had worked with Mr. Cantrell initially to pitch the space port, Aero Thermo Technology, had secured a no-bid federal contract to provide launching services. 
 Now Mr. Cantrell was on to another assignment overseeing missile defense research in Huntsville, and through his friends on the Hill, he was once again getting money for projects that the Pentagon did not want.
 Mr. Cantrell, who by now was helping to oversee 160 or so contractors and managing a $120 million a year contracting budget, said he knew that if he only requested a few million dollars at a time for his scheme, there would be little scrutiny of his requests or demands that he prove that the work was actually done. 
 For example, the missile nose cones and other parts now made round trips from Huntsville to Maine with little or no change. Mr. Cantrell or his deputy simply marked off the work as complete, and that was the end of it.
 For nearly six years, from 2001 to 2007, the men collected kickbacks from contractors. During one visit to the US Airways Club, Mr. Ennis picked up a briefcase stuffed with $75,000 in cash, according to federal court records. Mr. Cantrell also got checks, ranging from $5,000 to $60,000, once or twice a month, court records show.
 The Maine contractor, Maurice H. Subilia, is under investigation; his lawyer, Toby Dilworth, a former federal prosecutor, declined to comment. Dennis A. Darling, a Florida contractor who got government research grants and then divvied them up with Mr. Cantrell, was indicted last month on a charge of paying Mr. Cantrell $400,000 in bribes from 2005 to 2007.
 With his new wealth, Mr. Cantrell, now 52, built himself a $1.25 million home in an exclusive Huntsville neighborhood called the Ledges.
 Mr. Cantrell, who received the bulk of the kickbacks, acknowledges his crime but he ticks off the failings of the system that he exploited: lawmakers who are eager to please contractors and campaign donors; unwillingness by the Army to push back against members of Congress whose agendas were at odds with those of the military; and little scrutiny.
 ''We just paid for meaningless work,'' he said. ''And there was so little oversight that no one noticed.''
 Admiral West, the former deputy director of the Pentagon missile defense program, faults Mr. Cantrell for wrongdoing, but says there were multiple missed opportunities to investigate his activities.
 ''The blame needs to go around widely here,'' he said. ''Congress should know better; the contractors, too.'' 
 Mr. Cantrell, who is awaiting sentencing on conspiracy and bribery charges, now spends his days sitting in the kitchen of his father-in-law's house; his dream home was seized by the federal government. 
 On top of the kitchen table, next to a King James Version of the Bible and bottle of Extra Strength Excedrin, is a stack of books on how to master poker. Mr. Cantrell has reduced them to mathematical formulas pinned onto a bulletin board in front of a computer terminal, where he plays Internet poker for hours at a time. Even now, he is trying to beat the system.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of a transcription error, an article on Sunday about corruption involving contracts for Army missile defense programs misstated a word in a quotation from Lt. Gen. Jay Garner, who briefly headed the missile command. In an interview, describing how Army officials would seek Congressional approval for money that was not contained in the military's budget request, General Garner used the acronym POM, referring to the Program Objective Memorandum, an internal budget document. He said, ''If the money does not end up in the POM and you need it, the only other place you can get it is the Congress.'' He did not say, ''if the money does not end up in the palm.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Saturn V, in Huntsville, Ala. (pg.A1)
Michael Cantrell, second from left, and Doug Ennis, on a fishing trip in Alaska with contractors and Congressional aides while pitching a project.
 Michael Cantrell's photograph of himself with three congressmen and others at a missile testing center in Buffalo, which Congress financed despite Pentagon objections. (pg.A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); ARMIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BRIBERY (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); SCANDALS (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); GUILTY PLEAS (67%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (58%); TED STEVENS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (90%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



514 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: A Candidate Embraces Opposites

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
At the presidential debate in Nashville last Tuesday, Senator John McCain made his case for fiscally conservative, smaller government, calling for an ''across the board'' spending freeze and denouncing what he described as Senator Barack Obama's ''government will do this and government will do that'' approach to health care.
 But Mr. McCain's big proposal that night was to spend $300 billion in taxpayer money to buy bad mortgages from banks and refinance them, a plan conservatives quickly condemned as an expensive effort to nationalize the mortgage industry. 
 The juxtaposition of a hands-off approach to governing with an embrace of intervention -- albeit intervention at a moment of national crisis -- was hardly unusual for Mr. McCain. Throughout his run for the presidency, he has often proposed policies that appear to be incompatible with one another, if not contradictory. 
 His foreign policy, for example, calls for ostracizing Russia for its undemocratic ways by expelling it from the Group of Eight industrialized powers, a hard-line position that he took long before Russia's war with Georgia this summer. But Mr. McCain also calls for fostering closer ties with Russia to negotiate a new nuclear disarmament agreement. 
 Mr. McCain's economic policy centers on extending President Bush's deficit-swelling tax cuts and on cutting even more corporate taxes. But at the same time, Mr. McCain has vowed to balance the federal budget by the end of his term, a pledge he has reiterated even with the fiscal crisis threatening to throw the budget even deeper into the red.
 His energy policy is built in part on curbing the use of fossil fuels to reduce global warming, and he was an early Republican supporter of the cap-and-trade approach. But as gas prices shot up he made a series of proposals aimed at making gasoline cheaper and more available, from his call for a gas-tax holiday last summer to his new support for drilling for oil offshore (but still not in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge).
 Supporters of Mr. McCain cite his varying positions as evidence of his call-it-like-you-see-it independence from dogma, and maintain that it shows the kind of pragmatism and flexibility that has allowed him to reach across the aisle in the Senate to forge compromises on thorny issues like campaign finance reform and immigration. 
 But Mr. McCain's detractors see his contradictory proposals as a cynical effort to be all things to all people, and as evidence that policy proposals often seem to take a back seat in his campaign to less tangible things like biography and character.
 ''He has the same set of must-solve-problem approaches to policy and politics as newspaper editorial boards tend to -- he kind of careens from crisis to crisis saying 'we've got to Do Something,' with a capital D and a capital S,'' said Matt Welch, the editor in chief of Reason magazine, who traced Mr. McCain's evolving ideology in his book ''McCain: The Myth of a Maverick'' (Palgrave Macmillan, 2007).
 In recent days Mr. McCain has sought to sow doubt about his Democratic rival by asking at rallies, ''Who is the real Barack Obama?'' But the same question could just as easily be asked of Mr. McCain. He has at times described himself as an heir to the hands-off conservatism made famous by the man whose Senate seat he now holds, Barry Goldwater. But these days he more often cites as his model Theodore Roosevelt, who took a far more expansive view of the role of government both at home and abroad.
 In an interview over the summer, before the plunging markets led him to throw his support behind a major government intervention in the financial sector, Mr. McCain said he believed that ''less governance is best governance.'' But he also spoke approvingly of Theodore Roosevelt's actions as a trust-buster. ''So there certainly is a role for government, but I want to keep that role minimal,'' he said. ''And I want to keep it in the areas where only governments can perform those functions.''
 On the economy, Mr. McCain often sounds like a supply-sider who favors tax cuts over all, but he still makes nods to the deficit hawks who want a balanced budget. On foreign policy he has surrounded himself with prominent neoconservative advisers, who have taken a hawkish view on foreign policy in the past as an instrument to promote ideology. But he also listens to the so-called realists, who favor a more pragmatic approach and more diplomacy. He has described himself as a ''realistic idealist.''
 Aides to Mr. McCain have long described his approach to governing as being driven by a combination of broad principles and pragmatism, and a willingness to try to get things done even if it meant compromising in some areas. They point to his willingness to accept some provisions he disagreed with when he tried, in vain, to get a comprehensive immigration bill passed last year. Or his work with the Gang of 14 in the Senate, which cleared the way for the confirmation of several conservative jurists, but angered conservatives by avoiding a Republican-led effort to ban filibusters against judicial nominees. And they have tried to make a virtue of his unpredictability, branding him as a ''maverick.'' 
 Mr. McCain says he bases his positions on the merits, not on his party's stands.
 ''You know, I've been called a maverick, someone who marches to the beat of his own drum,'' Mr. McCain said in his speech accepting the Republican nomination in St. Paul, echoing remarks he has made often on the trail. ''Sometimes it's meant as a compliment and sometimes it's not. What it really means is I understand who I work for. I don't work for a party. I don't work for a special interest. I work for you.'' 
 But critics see him as rudderless, and note that he went from being something of a thorn in President Bush's side during his first term to a supporter in his second. 
 Robert Gordon, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, a Democratic-leaning policy group, traced some of Mr. McCain's contradictory proposals in an article in The New Republic last summer that was titled ''McContradiction.'' Mr. Gordon noted that Mr. McCain had gone from being one of the few Republicans who opposed the Bush tax cuts to a fervent supporter of making the cuts permanent, and from being an outspoken critic of government subsidies to corporations to a supporter of what are essentially subsidies for coal and nuclear power. ''A world-view, consistency from year to year, or even day to day, is beside the point,'' Mr. Gordon said. 
 Keith T. Poole, a professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego who studies the ideological voting patterns of members of Congress, said Mr. McCain had the most unpredictable voting record of any current member of the Senate. ''Since the end of the Second World War, only William Proxmire of Wisconsin has been more variable,'' he said, noting that since Mr. McCain entered the Senate as a middle-of-the-road Republican two decades ago, his votes have oscillated between conservative and liberal. 
 Dr. Poole said that Mr. McCain's ideological flexibility might make it easier for him to reach the kinds of compromises needed to get bills passed in the Senate, but that it made it difficult to predict what kind of president he would be. 
 ''McCain is, in terms of ideology, somewhat hard to pigeonhole,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (63%); GLOBAL WARMING (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); GASOLINE PRICES (62%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); FUEL TAX (50%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



515 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; EDUCATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: More Schools Miss the Mark, Raising Pressure

BYLINE: By KRISTIN HUSSEY

 BODY:
SINCE 2001, when President Bush signed the federal No Child Left Behind law, schools in Connecticut have scrambled to revamp curriculums, step up professional development for teachers and continually assess students' test scores to comply with the law's requirements. It is an effort that has dominated the agendas of school officials not just in Connecticut, but all over the nation, and not everyone is happy that test results have become such a focus.
 When results of the latest test scores were announced a few weeks ago, about 40 percent, or 408, of the public schools in Connecticut did not make the grade under the federal law, state officials said. The state added 100 schools to its list of schools that failed to meet the federal benchmarks. 
 Mark K. McQuillan, commissioner of education for Connecticut, said he does not believe the federal goals are attainable for Connecticut schools.
 ''I think they're just unrealistic,'' he said in an interview last week. ''And the evidence shows that's true everywhere in the country.
 ''It's too much to expect of the country to do that kind of fundamental changing in the time frame and with the dollars they've provided,'' he said, referring to the federal government.
 The law calls for all students in the United States, including English language learners and students with special needs, to perform at grade level by 2014. Some officials complain that because the standards are raised every two years, more and more schools are failing to fulfill the law's requirements.
 But that does not mean the state will not keep working hard to meet the goals, Mr. McQuillan said.
 The State Department of Education has introduced a new accountability system that assigns teams and support personnel to struggling districts, and helps districts put improvement plans into action, state officials said. 
 And the strategy is working in some districts. Two elementary schools in Norwalk found out that they had finally come off the list of schools ''in need of improvement.''
 Brookside Elementary and Kendall Elementary schools were in a group of only five elementary schools statewide that improved enough to meet this year's standards.
 Salvatore J. Corda, superintendent of Norwalk Public Schools, said the improvements came after systemic shifts in teaching and methodology that the district had been working on for a couple of years. ''When you try to move an entire system, it takes a while for things to take hold,'' he said.
 When Tony Ditrio took over as principal of Kendall Elementary School 10 years ago, his first piece of business was getting order in the building. ''There wasn't any,'' he said. ''That took a few years. Once we had a safe, orderly environment, we started to tackle the curriculum.''
 All of the most recent data is based on scores from testing of 230,000 third through eighth graders and 50,000 tenth graders last spring. The latest results show that keeping children reading at grade level is ''a real and growing challenge,'' Mr. McQuillan said. At the high school level, he said, ''mathematics is the greater issue.''
 This year, for the first time, the Greenwich school district as a whole did not make adequate yearly progress. The district is one of 44 of the state's 171 districts that did not meet this year's standards.
 Districts are considered not making adequate progress when certain student groups fail to meet benchmarks in the same category on both the elementary and high school tests. Students with disabilities and economically disadvantaged students in Greenwich did not score at grade level in both reading and math.
 ''Does this mean we have a bad school system?'' said Betty J. Sternberg, superintendent of Greenwich Public Schools. ''The strength of a school system does lie in meeting the needs of each child, no matter what their background is. So to that extent if I'm a parent of a child in a subgroup that hasn't met it,'' she said, referring to the standards, ''I would be concerned.''
 Special education students should not be expected to perform at grade level, Dr. Sternberg said. ''We've had reports of special ed students sitting in front of tests and they're crying. They can't possibly do it,'' she said.
 Additionally, testing students every year between third and eighth grade leaves schools inundated with data that needs to be analyzed and reported, said Dr. Sternberg, who served as Connecticut's commissioner for education from 2003 to 2006. While some teachers and school administrators complain about the tests, others say the law has forced them to take action.
 ''No Child Left Behind has been a really good kick in the pants for us,'' said Joshua P. Starr, superintendent of schools in Stamford. ''It was too easy to sweep some kids under the rug. We're not allowed to do that anymore, and that's a good thing.''
 Connecticut's attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, sued the Bush administration in 2005, charging that No Child Left Behind illegally requires states to spend their own money to meet the law's standards. A federal judge threw out the case last April, and Mr. Blumenthal is appealing that decision. The state's appeal is likely to be argued next spring, according to Mr. Blumenthal's staff.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUCCESS: Dana Morton teaches pupils at Kendall Elementary School, one of only five to get off a needs-improvement list. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUDITH PSZENICA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



516 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Free Fall Oct. 5 - 11

 BODY:
THE NEWS Americans awoke to news that European nations were scrambling to prevent the collapse of major banks, then watched as the Dow Jones industrial average plunged 800 points before regaining some ground. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS It was the type of day when a 369-point decline in the Dow came as a relief. The damage was worse abroad: Asian markets were hammered; the Russian market dropped 19 percent; major indexes in Europe lost from 7 percent to 9 percent of their value; and stocks in Latin America took their worst fall in a decade. The carnage reflected fears of a global recession. ''Everybody is going to get caught up in this,'' said one leading economist. 
 THE NEWS Despite hints of a cut in interest rates, the Dow fell 508 points, or 5.1 percent. A third of its value had now been erased in a year.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The fear gripping Wall Street proved more powerful than actions by central bankers to ease the crisis. European finance ministers met to buttress the continent's banking system. And Ben. S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, all but promised to cut interest rates by the end of the month. The Fed also said it would buy up parts of the short-term financing market to unlock credit for businesses. ''These are momentous steps,'' Mr. Bernanke said, ''but they are taken to address a problem of historic dimensions.''
 THE NEWS To restore confidence, the Treasury Department considered taking ownership stakes in many United States banks.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The plan was intended to spur banks to lend to one another and to other customers. The idea surfaced as the Federal Reserve and five other central banks cut their benchmark interest rates and the Bank of England said it would nationalize part of the British banking system. Still, the credit markets remained stalled, and stock prices declined in Europe and Asia. The Dow fell 189 points. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. acknowledged: ''The turmoil will not end quickly.''
 THE NEWS Despite unprecedented steps around the world to defuse the crisis, stocks went into free fall, with the Dow closing below 9,000 for the first time in five years.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Much of the drop occurred in the closing hour of the busiest day in the history of the New York Stock Exchange. Various reasons were cited: mutual funds' executing of sell orders from frightened investors; hedge funds' selling of holdings to raise collateral; computerized selling. Over all, though, investors seemed to have no confidence in the government's rescue efforts. ''The bottom line here is we're witnessing a complete panic,'' said one financial planner. 
 THE NEWS At the end of one of the worst weeks in Wall Street history, Treasury officials said they would buy stock in financial institutions to unlock credit and resuscitate the economy.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Treasury Secretary Paulson announced the move after meeting with leaders of the world's major economies, who endorsed the idea of taking ownership in banks. The news followed another wild day on the market; the Dow closed down 128 points, ending a week in which it lost more than 1,800 points, or about 18 percent. Seeking to reassure the nation, President Bush said, ''We're in this together, and we'll come through this together.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); RECESSION (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); INTEREST RATES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); HENRY PAULSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



517 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: The Rise Of The Machines

BYLINE: By RICHARD DOOLING. 
Richard Dooling is the author of ''Rapture for the Geeks: When A.I. Outsmarts I.Q.''

DATELINE: Omaha 

 BODY:
 ''BEWARE of geeks bearing formulas.'' So saith Warren Buffett, the Wizard of Omaha. Words to bear in mind as we bail out banks and buy up mortgages and tweak interest rates and nothing, nothing seems to make any difference on Wall Street or Main Street. Years ago, Mr. Buffett called derivatives ''weapons of financial mass destruction'' -- an apt metaphor considering that the Manhattan Project's math and physics geeks bearing formulas brought us the original weapon of mass destruction, at Trinity in New Mexico on July 16, 1945.
 In a 1981 documentary called ''The Day After Trinity,'' Freeman Dyson, a reigning gray eminence of math and theoretical physics, as well as an ardent proponent of nuclear disarmament, described the seductive power that brought us the ability to create atomic energy out of nothing. 
 ''I have felt it myself,'' he warned. ''The glitter of nuclear weapons. It is irresistible if you come to them as a scientist. To feel it's there in your hands, to release this energy that fuels the stars, to let it do your bidding. To perform these miracles, to lift a million tons of rock into the sky. It is something that gives people an illusion of illimitable power, and it is, in some ways, responsible for all our troubles -- this, what you might call technical arrogance, that overcomes people when they see what they can do with their minds.''
 The Wall Street geeks, the quantitative analysts (''quants'') and masters of ''algo trading'' probably felt the same irresistible lure of ''illimitable power'' when they discovered ''evolutionary algorithms'' that allowed them to create vast empires of wealth by deriving the dependence structures of portfolio credit derivatives.
 What does that mean? You'll never know. Over and over again, financial experts and wonkish talking heads endeavor to explain these mysterious, ''toxic'' financial instruments to us lay folk. Over and over, they ignobly fail, because we all know that no one understands credit default obligations and derivatives, except perhaps Mr. Buffett and the computers who created them.
 Somehow the genius quants -- the best and brightest geeks Wall Street firms could buy -- fed $1 trillion in subprime mortgage debt into their supercomputers, added some derivatives, massaged the arrangements with computer algorithms and -- poof! -- created $62 trillion in imaginary wealth. It's not much of a stretch to imagine that all of that imaginary wealth is locked up somewhere inside the computers, and that we humans, led by the silverback males of the financial world, Ben Bernanke and Henry Paulson, are frantically beseeching the monolith for answers. Or maybe we are lost in space, with Dave the astronaut pleading, ''Open the bank vault doors, Hal.''
 As the current financial crisis spreads (like a computer virus) on the earth's nervous system (the Internet), it's worth asking if we have somehow managed to colossally outsmart ourselves using computers. After all, the Wall Street titans loved swaps and derivatives because they were totally unregulated by humans. That left nobody but the machines in charge.
 How fitting then, that almost 30 years after Freeman Dyson described the almost unspeakable urges of the nuclear geeks creating illimitable energy out of equations, his son, George Dyson, has written an essay (published at Edge.org) warning about a different strain of technical arrogance that has brought the entire planet to the brink of financial destruction. George Dyson is an historian of technology and the author of ''Darwin Among the Machines,'' a book that warned us a decade ago that it was only a matter of time before technology out-evolves us and takes over.
 His new essay -- ''Economic Dis-Equilibrium: Can You Have Your House and Spend It Too?'' -- begins with a history of ''stock,'' originally a stick of hazel, willow or alder wood, inscribed with notches indicating monetary amounts and dates. When funds were transferred, the stick was split into identical halves -- with one side going to the depositor and the other to the party safeguarding the money -- and represented proof positive that gold had been deposited somewhere to back it up. That was good enough for 600 years, until we decided that we needed more speed and efficiency. 
 Making money, it seems, is all about the velocity of moving it around, so that it can exist in Hong Kong one moment and Wall Street a split second later. ''The unlimited replication of information is generally a public good,'' George Dyson writes. ''The problem starts, as the current crisis demonstrates, when unregulated replication is applied to money itself. Highly complex computer-generated financial instruments (known as derivatives) are being produced, not from natural factors of production or other goods, but purely from other financial instruments.''
 It was easy enough for us humans to understand a stick or a dollar bill when it was backed by something tangible somewhere, but only computers can understand and derive a correlation structure from observed collateralized debt obligation tranche spreads. Which leads us to the next question: Just how much of the world's financial stability now lies in the ''hands'' of computerized trading algorithms?
 Here's a frightening party trick that I learned from the futurist Ray Kurzweil. Read this excerpt and then I'll tell you who wrote it:
 But we are suggesting neither that the human race would voluntarily turn power over to the machines nor that the machines would willfully seize power. What we do suggest is that the human race might easily permit itself to drift into a position of such dependence on the machines that it would have no practical choice but to accept all of the machines' decisions. ... Eventually a stage may be reached at which the decisions necessary to keep the system running will be so complex that human beings will be incapable of making them intelligently. At that stage the machines will be in effective control. People won't be able to just turn the machines off, because they will be so dependent on them that turning them off would amount to suicide.
 Brace yourself. It comes from the Unabomber's manifesto.
 Yes, Theodore Kaczinski was a homicidal psychopath and a paranoid kook, but he was also a bloodhound when it came to scenting all of the horrors technology holds in store for us. Hence his mission to kill technologists before machines commenced what he believed would be their inevitable reign of terror.
 We are living, we have long been told, in the Information Age. Yet now we are faced with the sickening suspicion that technology has run ahead of us. Man is a fire-stealing animal, and we can't help building machines and machine intelligences, even if, from time to time, we use them not only to outsmart ourselves but to bring us right up to the doorstep of Doom.
 We are still fearful, superstitious and all-too-human creatures. At times, we forget the magnitude of the havoc we can wreak by off-loading our minds onto super-intelligent machines, that is, until they run away from us, like mad sorcerers' apprentices, and drag us up to the precipice for a look down into the abyss.
 As the financial experts all over the world use machines to unwind Gordian knots of financial arrangements so complex that only machines can make -- ''derive'' -- and trade them, we have to wonder: Are we living in a bad sci-fi movie? Is the Matrix made of credit default swaps?
 When Treasury Secretary Paulson (looking very much like a frightened primate) came to Congress seeking an emergency loan, Senator Jon Tester of Montana, a Democrat still living on his family homestead, asked him: ''I'm a dirt farmer. Why do we have one week to determine that $700 billion has to be appropriated or this country's financial system goes down the pipes?'' 
 ''Well, sir,'' Mr. Paulson could well have responded, ''the computers have demanded it.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREA DEZSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (84%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); PHYSICS (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (67%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (89%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (88%); NEW MEXICO, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



518 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: In Tight House Race, Bush Record Is Battleground

BYLINE: By FRAN SILVERMAN

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT 

 BODY:
 AS the last Republican United States representative left in Connecticut -- and in all of New England -- Christopher Shays of the Fourth District is familiar with close contests. He came within about 6,000 votes of losing his Congressional seat in 2006 at a time when constituents were angry about the war in Iraq, which he voted to support. 
 Now, he faces perhaps the closest race yet as he tries for an 11th term, running against Jim Himes, a Democrat from Greenwich, at a time when constituents are angry about the economy and the Wall Street bailout. Mr. Shays, 62, voted in favor of both versions of the bailout bill despite the fact that constituents who contacted his office were against it, 30 to 1.
 ''I'm not going to play Russian roulette with Main Street,'' Mr. Shays said recently during an interview at his home in Bridgeport overlooking Long Island Sound. 
 Mr. Shay's district in southwestern Connecticut is one of the wealthiest in the nation, encompassing portions of Fairfield and New Haven Counties and the communities of Greenwich, Stamford, Bridgeport and Westport.
 Once a Republican stronghold, the Fourth District has voted for a Democrat in every presidential race since 1996. Political experts say Mr. Shays has hung onto his seat because he has been seen as an independent -- fiscally conservative but socially progressive -- and is seen to be effective in constituency work.
 But this election comes against the backdrop of an economic crisis and a presidential election. Not only is the state considered to be safely in Senator Barack Obama's column, but state polls also show the Democratic presidential candidate running strong in Mr. Shays's district. That trend, coupled with what the secretary of state's office says is a record number of voters registered in Democratic-leaning Bridgeport this election, may present the biggest challenge ever to Mr. Shays, who has been in office for 21 years.
 Still, political experts say that while voters may be upset with President Bush's administration, they often take other issues into account when voting for their own Congressional representatives.
 ''I'm not sure people in this district are blaming Shays for the problems we are having,'' said Gary L. Rose, a political science professor at Sacred Heart University in Fairfield. ''The issues Shays has favored have appealed to so many constituent groups, such as housing for the poor, health care, pro-choice. He just seems to placate every aspect of the Fourth District with his positions.''
 Based on Mr. Shays's voting record, Congressional Quarterly ranked him the No. 1 moderate Republican in the House. 
 A poll conducted from Sept. 22 to Sept. 25 by WSHU Radio/Sacred Heart University showed Mr. Shays leading Mr. Himes by 10 percentage points, with 30 percent of voters undecided. Professor Rose said that two-thirds of undecided voters often cast their ballots for the challenger. The Sacred Heart poll had a 5 percentage point margin of sampling error. 
 Mr. Shays said he was not surprised that the race was close. ''I realize my district hates Bush,'' he said.
 With the Nov. 4 election less than a month away, the economy has become the dominant issue in the race. 
 Mr. Himes, a former investment banker for Goldman Sachs, who has said he would have voted for the bailout legislation also, has tried to tie Mr. Shays to the Bush administration's economic policies.
 He has reminded voters that in September, Mr. Shays said that the fundamentals of the economy were sound, and he has questioned why, with Mr. Shays's position as a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, on which he has served since 2001, he has failed to take measures to prevent the banking meltdowns.
 Mr. Himes, who has raised more than $2 million -- more money than any of Mr. Shays's previous challengers -- said Mr. Shays was out of touch with his constituency on the two main issues on the minds of voters.
 ''He was dead wrong on Iraq and has supported the administration's disastrous economic policies,'' Mr. Himes said during a recent interview at his campaign headquarters in Norwalk. He likes to remind voters of how often Mr. Shays voted to support President Bush's policies.
 In 2002, Mr. Shays voted 82 percent of the time with the Bush administration, but in 2007, Mr. Shays voted 33 percent of the time with the president, according to Mr. Shays's campaign.
 Mr. Himes said Mr. Shays's policy of supporting deregulation left the economy vulnerable to abusive and reckless actions by banks. Having worked as an investment banker, Mr. Himes said he knew what needed to be done to better regulate the financial industry.
 Mr. Shays bristles at his opponent's criticism, saying he was one of the first to voice concerns about lack of oversight of the mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, supporting legislation in 2003 to require the two companies to comply with the same reporting requirements as publicly traded companies despite fierce opposition and pressure from his party and lobbyists. In 2006, he said, he raised concerns about the increased commercial operations of banks in a letter to the comptroller of the currency. But Mr. Himes retorts: ''While the basement was full of dynamite, Chris Shays was checking on the smoke in the attic.'' 
 Mr. Shays also says in campaign literature and commercials that he has the hope of Mr. Obama and the straight talk of Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential candidate. He said he supports Mr. McCain and Mr. McCain's running mate, Sarah Palin, saying he views them as fellow reformers. And he said he wondered why Mr. Himes was running against him when the two hold similar positions on many issues including health care, support of Roe v. Wade and the environment -- both support a continued ban on drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
 Mr. Himes said Mr. Shays sided with Republicans on close votes. Nine out of 10 times, he said, Mr. Shays voted with his party on issues like tax cuts for the middle class and timetables for withdrawal of troops from Iraq. ''He voted against withdrawal timelines five times,'' Mr. Himes said. ''He's been dishonest with us. He says what he needs to say to get elected.'' 
 Mr. Shays does favor a timeline, he said, and has voted for one that includes withdrawing most combat troops from Iraq by December 2009. He has said that he voted against other proposals that he thought withdrew troops too quickly. 
 As House candidates, Mr. Himes ranked No. 2 and Mr. Shays No. 3 in the amount of campaign contributions received from securities and investment firms in 2008, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group. Mr. Himes received $393,254, and Mr. Shays received $362,720. Mr. Himes has also received contributions from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which has spent more than $300,000 to air two television commercials on his behalf. 
 The two candidates have scheduled seven debates beginning on Tuesday. 
 ''This race will be decided by a tiny margin,'' Mr. Himes said. ''But instead of one issue, the war, that almost got him beaten, we've got two where he's been wrong, the war and the economy.''
 Mr. Shays said he is taking nothing for granted. 
 ''People wrestle with, can I be an Obama and a Shays supporter. I can work with McCain or Obama,'' he said. ''I listen, I learn, I help, I lead and I listen again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IT LOOKS CLOSE: Representative Christopher Shays, left, a Republican, is fighting to keep his seat from Jim Himes, a Democrat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
INTRODUCTIONS: Jim Himes at the South Norwalk train station.
 ON THE TRAIL: Representative Christopher Shays in Shelton. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RANKINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (91%); JIM HIMES (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



519 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Can Bonds Still Be Your Cushion?

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY JR

 BODY:
AMID historic upheaval in financial markets, many investors found some stability in bond funds in the third quarter, demonstrating a paramount rule of investing: Allocate your portfolio prudently between equity and fixed-income securities.
 In the quarter, for example, taxable bond funds lost 4.1 percent, on average, according to Morningstar, while the subcategory of long government bond funds averaged a 1.1 percent gain. Those are hardly spectacular returns, but compare them with domestic stock mutual funds, which fell more than 10 percent. 
 ''Bonds cushion volatility,'' said Bruce J. Berno, president of Berno Financial Management in Cincinnati, who in seeking a bit more safety has recently shifted some clients from specialized bond funds to those with a broader investment mandate.
 Many bond holders, though, may be worrying in general about fixed-income securities because of the government's huge economic rescue operations, the jump in the Consumer Price Index, and the beaten-down dollar, as well as defaults by companies and the threat of default by the largest county in Alabama. 
 The prospect of heavy demands on the credit markets and faster, rescue-driven inflation could point to rising interest rates and eroding bond values.
 But many bond managers say they believe that some attractive fixed-income opportunities are at hand, and they caution against timing the market by unloading bonds now in the hope of buying them back at better prices in the future.
 William H. Gross, the chief investment officer of Pimco, arguably the industry's most influential voice, bet correctly that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would be saved. Mr. Gross says a slowing world economy favors a decline, not a climb, in price pressures and interest rates.
 ''The potential, in our opinion, for inflation 12 months from now could be 1 1/2 to 2 percent,'' he said in an interview, compared with the current pace of 5.4 percent.
 The Federal Reserve itself predicts moderating inflation, with Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, telling Congress ''this is not a fiscal stimulus'' as the government considered an early version of a $700 billion financial rescue package last month.
 But as the crisis continued and Washington poured in more bucketfuls of money, analysts wondered how the rescue operations would be financed. Since tax increases seem unlikely in a recessionary climate, the money to cover a budget deficit that could reach $1 trillion next year will have to come from either bond sales or the printing press, both of which tend to put upward pressure on interest rates. 
 Still, many managers and analysts agreed that the outlook for various bonds is relatively sanguine -- except for safe-haven Treasury issues, whose prices have been bid sky-high in the turmoil. 
 ''Inflation is clearly a worry,'' acknowledged Mary J. Miller, fixed-income director at T. Rowe Price, though she added that inflation and other uncertainties were taking a back seat for now to the disruption in the credit market.
 This implies a need to be in the right category of bonds. And some that are now in favor are high-quality, nonfinancial corporate securities. 
 ''We're not out of the woods on the credit crunch,'' Ms. Miller said, ''but we think a lot has been built into the market to compensate investors for buying corporate debt.'' 
 High-quality corporate bonds yield more than five percentage points than Treasury issues of comparable maturity -- spreads that surpass those of the early 2000s and early 1990s.
 Jennifer K. Wynn, a portfolio manager at Merganser Capital, a bond firm in Boston, said, ''We are at historical wides in investment-grade corporates,'' meaning that their yields compared with those of Treasuries have matched the earlier peaks.
 At the same time, yields on high-yield, or junk, corporate bonds jumped late last month to more than 12.5 percentage points over those of Treasuries, rivaling previous peaks. Junk funds fell 8.4 percent during the third quarter, but some specialists say junk yields have become tempting. 
 Tax-exempt municipal bonds, which offered yields so juicy early this year that they were bought by managers who normally focus on corporate bonds or even stocks, lost some luster over the summer. Still, this sector, without the exotic securitized products that are found elsewhere, is ''pretty sound'' and has become very cheap again compared with Treasuries, Ms. Miller observed. Some bonds, however, could become suspect if a weak economy further undermined state and local revenue.
 SOME experts recommend sticking with high-quality state and local general obligation issues, preferably where an investor lives, or pre-refunded bonds backed by Treasuries.
 Mr. Gross sounded more cautious, noting that yields of lesser-quality municipals were at record levels compared with those of top quality -- a sign of investor fear that the problems afflicting Jefferson County, Ala., which hovered on the edge of default, might become widespread. ''The environment is not very great'' for tax-exempts, he said.
 At the same time, municipals would very likely benefit from higher income tax rates, which Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee for president, has recommended for those earning more than $250,000 a year.
 For maximum safety against default, of course, investors must accept puny yields on Treasury issues: less than 4 percent -- and before federal tax -- for the benchmark 10-year bond. But keep in mind that Treasuries now carry considerable risk of loss of principal if interest rates climb -- pushing prices down -- before the bonds come due.
 Investors who aren't convinced that inflation is on the wane should keep bonds with short maturities, experts advise. 
 They might also consider Treasury inflation-protected securities, whose principal is adjusted regularly, based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. These are an excellent vehicle for diversifying bond portfolios because they behave differently than bonds sensitive to rates, credit standing or currency influences. The hitch is that they are currently not as attractively priced as they have sometimes been in their 11-year history.
 According to Ms. Miller, the difference between the average yield on a 10-year TIPS and a normal Treasury bond is the market's view of the average rate of inflation for the next decade, and at the moment, that number is 0.75 percent.''If you think inflation is going to be higher than that, you should buy TIPS now,'' she said, noting that these bonds are best held in retirement accounts, to avoid having to pay taxes each year on the addition to principal -- or having to deal with the bookkeeping.
 Mr. Gross is betting on lower inflation over the next year or so but expects it to rise sharply and to ''challenge'' the bond market in 2010 and beyond. Likewise, Ms. Miller says she thinks the government's huge liquidity injections mean that inflation ultimately ''will rear its ugly head.''
 THIS suggests good performance for the TIPS that Mr. Gross said he was emphasizing along with the highest-quality corporate bonds and government-backed mortgage securities -- a combination he said should generate a portfolio return of 5 to 6 percent.
 Any stigma that may have resulted from the government bailout of the two mortgage agencies seems to have quickly dissipated.
 ''I think there is a pretty big safety net now under Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac debt,'' Ms. Miller said, ''so I think that it is a reasonable, higher-yielding alternative to Treasuries.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William H. Gross of Pimco bet correctly that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would be saved. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mary J. Miller of T. Rowe Price said inflation was a worry but still in the background. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS)(BU27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); BOND FUNDS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (89%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



520 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; HIGHER EDUCATION HEMPTSTEAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: A College in the Eye of a Debate

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD 

 BODY:
 THE eyes of the nation will turn to Hofstra University on Wednesday night as Senators John McCain and Barack Obama face off here in their final debate of the presidential campaign.
 The buzz has been mounting for months on campus, now festooned with red, white and blue banners proclaiming ''Debate '08.''
 ''I'm really excited it's here,'' said Beth Nelson, a junior from Abington, Mass., majoring in creative writing. A friend, Zacq Rosen, a sophomore from Deerfield, Ill., majoring in fine arts, agreed: ''Now when I say I go to Hofstra, they'll know what school it is.''
 Even before Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama announced their candidacies, Hofstra was organizing its own campaign to be chosen by the Commission on Presidential Debates. 
 Besides giving students a front-row seat to one of the most riveting presidential campaigns in modern history, the debate is making a wider impact on Hofstra.
 The 90 minutes in the national spotlight bring invaluable publicity, recognition of Hofstra's rise from a small commuter college to a flourishing modern university with an international student body of close to 13,000 students and plans to open a medical school. Presidential debates at other universities have prompted surges in applications and donations.
 ''There's a halo effect,'' said Hofstra's president, Stuart Rabinowitz, who proposed bidding for the debate. The preparations cost about $3 million, including a $1.35 million fee to the Commission on Presidential Debates.
 Hofstra is parlaying the debate from a teachable moment into a yearlong series of academic and cultural events on issues ranging from global warming to the Iraq war. ''The debate clearly is a public relations event,'' Dr. Rabinowitz said, ''but that's not good enough reason to do it.''
 Among the many events in the university's Educate '08 program are a concert by Oscar Brand, a talk by Gloria Steinem on gender and race, a panel discussion on the Jewish vote, appearances by George Stephanopoulos of ABC and the Democratic strategist and political commentator James Carville, a staging of the musical ''1776'' and a showing of the film ''Primary Colors'' with a question-and-answer session with Joe Klein, who wrote the book it was based on. The former candidate John Edwards and his wife, Elizabeth, were also on the schedule but canceled after disclosure of his extramarital affair. 
 On a field trip, 90 Hofstra students took buses to New Hampshire in January for the primary there. ''I got to see Obama and McCain,'' said Marcella Duque, a junior from Florida who said she is eager to cast her first vote. She credited Hofstra for ''trying hard to get students involved.''
 About 250 students will work as volunteers for the debate, and nearly 7,000 entered a lottery for Hofstra's share of about 1,000 seats at the debate at the David S. Mack Sports and Exhibition Center. The commission has not yet announced the allotment.
 Bringing the debate here also underscores the political significance of modern suburbia, which was born in nearby Levittown. Dr. Rabinowitz called the debate ''a unique opportunity to showcase Hofstra University and Long Island, our nation's first suburb, to a national and international audience.''
 Half the United States population now lives in the suburbs, making them a focal campaign battleground. ''The rural areas tend to be Republican, the cities Democratic, and the suburbs are a swing vote,'' said Michael Dawidziak, a political consultant. ''As Nassau and Suffolk go, so goes the nation.''
 The debate, moderated by Bob Scheiffer of CBS, will feature the economy and other domestic issues.
 ''Suburbia's problems are a lot like everybody else's problems,'' Dr. Rabinowitz said. But the broad issues have special resonance here. The foreclosure crisis, energy prices and financial chaos all hit hard in a suburban culture in part premised on the single-family home, the automobile and a regional economy anchored on Wall Street.
 Any illusion of a suburban safe haven was dashed by a recent national survey by the National Center for Suburban Studies at Hofstra. It polled 1,033 suburbanites in mid-September, before the first presidential debate and before the economic crisis worsened. 
 ''Thirty-eight percent said they lived paycheck to paycheck, which is stunning -- hard to believe that people would admit even if it were true,'' said the center's executive director, Lawrence C. Levy. Half those polled said they knew someone who had lost a job, and a fourth knew someone who had lost a home. 
 The university's own history has paralleled Long Island's growth from potato farms to a region with 2.8 million people.
 Hofstra opened in a single building in 1935 under a cumbersome name: Nassau College-Hofstra Memorial of New York University at Hempstead, Long Island. It had 159 day students, 621 night students and tuition of $375.
 The funds and 15 acres came from the estate of William Hofstra, a timber and paper manufacturing magnate, and his wife, Kate, who wanted a memorial in their name. Their mansion remains a quaint center of the campus.
 In the late 1930s, the school simplified its name to Hofstra College and became independent of N.Y.U.
 Recalling the intimate campus when he arrived in 1952, Herbert D. Rosenbaum, an emeritus political science professor, said that ''everybody knew everybody else.'' When he checked out two or three books from the small second-floor library, ''They wondered what was I going to do with all those books,'' he said. Today, the 10-story library tower has 1.4 million volumes.
 Apart from the chronic parking shortage, the only constant at Hofstra has been change. ''There was nothing gradual at all about it,'' Professor Rosenbaum said. ''In some cases it came with a great rush, and it was especially explosive in the 1960s.''
 In that era Hofstra acquired part of the closed Mitchel Air Force Base, creating its north campus. Other parts of the field were used for Nassau Community College, the Nassau Coliseum and Museum Row, an area now being redeveloped as Nassau's hub.
 Shedding its commuting-student image, Hofstra erected high-rise dormitories on the new land, transformed into a university in 1963, and began opening schools of business, education, law and communications.
 A recession and shrinking applicant pool reduced enrollment in the 1970s, but Hofstra raised its academic standards to make itself more desirable, and growth resumed. 
 Today Hofstra has 12,600 full- and part-time students; 7,700 are full-time undergraduates. Eighty percent of students live on campus, now 240 acres with more than 100 buildings and a 15,000-seat stadium. There are more than 110,000 alumni, including the Oscar-winning director Francis Ford Coppola and Gov. David A. Paterson, who studied under Dr. Rabinowitz at the law school.
 Half the students come from outside New York, representing virtually every state and 68 nations. From 2000 to 2007, the average SAT score for freshmen rose 100 points, to 1179, and their high school grade average rose to 3.37, from 2.8. Over that period, the acceptance rate has tightened to barely more than half, from 80 percent. The faculty has 544 full-timers and 650 part-timers. Annual tuition, room, board and fees total about $38,000.
 Also raising Hofstra's profile -- and no doubt boosting its bid for the debate -- the university under President James M. Shuart started a series of conferences on modern American presidents. Four former presidents -- Gerald R. Ford,Jimmy Carter, George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton -- spoke at their sessions here. Hofstra also sponsored retrospectives on popular culture figures like Alfred Hitchcock and Frank Sinatra.
 Hofstra's endowment has risen from about $50 million in the early 1990s to about five times that, and its new goal is $500 million. Its next major expansion will be the 2011 opening of a traditional medical school -- the first in New York in nearly half a century -- in concert with the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System. The school will occupy the summer training space vacated by the New York Jets after 40 years. 
 ''There's been a tremendous growth in quantity and quality in all the colleges on Long Island, as they matured with the suburbs,'' said the region's representative on the State Board of Regents, Roger B. Tilles.
 Pushing to the forefront, Hofstra is now ranked among the country's top 368 colleges by the Princeton Review. Mr. Tilles praised the university's leaders as ''very ambitious people who have had great success, investing in their infrastructure and the teaching staff, shooting for higher-level students, making an outreach to the larger world with the presidential series and now moving on the medical school.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'HALO EFFECT': Above, the debate will be held at the David S. Mack Sports and Exhibition Center at Hofstra. Students at the entrance to the Joan and Donald E. Axinn Library on campus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI1)
 RENOWN: On the campus of Hofstra University, where the sculpture shown is ''Plato Having a Dialogue With Socrates'' by Mihail Chemiakin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); HISTORY (68%); NETWORK TELEVISION (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008



521 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Mighty Chihuahuas Eclipse DiCaprio and Crowe in Test of Star Power

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
This is how far movie stars have fallen in their ability to pull audiences into theaters, at least when the story revolves around Iraq and the messiness of the Middle East: A picture about talking dogs, ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua,'' trampled Leonardo DiCaprio and Russell Crowe at the weekend box office. 
 ''Body of Lies,'' a terrorism thriller starring Mr. DiCaprio and Mr. Crowe, sold an anemic $13.1 million in tickets at North American theaters, according to the theater tracking company Box Office Mojo. The movie's stars are considered two of the biggest draws in the business. And the film was directed by Ridley Scott (''Blade Runner,'' ''American Gangster''), one of the few filmmakers who are household names. 
 Warner Brothers, the studio behind this serious, expensive movie, blamed the bad timing of an economic crisis. ''The result is directly related to the dire mood of Americans,'' Dan Fellman, president for domestic theatrical distribution at Warner Brothers, who flatly rejected the industry belief that the film's megawatt stars should have garnered higher sales regardless.
 Still, Warner Brothers had turned ''Body of Lies'' into a referendum on star power by choosing to market the film squarely on the backs of Mr. DiCaprio and Mr. Crowe, delivering scant information about the plotline in the process. And the marketing was considerable, beginning in force during the Beijing Olympics and continuing with a major billboard and television campaign. (''Body of Lies'' cost an estimated $70 million to produce; the average studio film costs an average of nearly $36 million to market.) 
 The studio worried that selling ''Body of Lies'' based on its plot would be difficult. Adapted from the best-selling novel by David Ignatius, the movie centers on a C.I.A. operative who is tracking a terrorist leader, and bounces from Iraq to Turkey to the United States to Jordan. In the past few years movies focusing on the Iraq war and the fallout from 9/11 (''Rendition'' and ''Lions for Lambs,'' for example) have generally performed terribly, even with big-name stars like Tom Cruise and Reese Witherspoon.
 Escapism definitely ruled the weekend -- something that should ring alarm bells for almost all the Hollywood studios as they prepare to flood the market with somber awards-driven pictures. Films like ''Changeling,'' starring Angelina Jolie as a mother in search of her kidnapped son, and ''The Soloist,'' featuring Jamie Foxx as a homeless musician, may have an extra hurdle to cross. 
 ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua,'' a Walt Disney Pictures release, sold an estimated $17.5 million in tickets over the weekend, according to Box Office Mojo. That was enough for the No. 1 slot for the second week in a row, bringing its cumulative gross to $52.5 million. Second place went to another escapist entry, this time in the horror genre: ''Quarantine,'' released by Sony/Screen Gems, sold about $14.2 million in tickets, drawing heavily on younger moviegoers.
 ''Body of Lies'' was third. Fourth place went to ''Eagle Eye'' with $11 million (for a new total of $70.6 million). And ''Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist'' was fifth with $6.5 million ($20.8 million).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jamie Lee Curtis and her dog in ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL DAZA/DISNEY ENTERPRISES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BESTSELLERS (71%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); MUSIC (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); THEATER (58%); REFERENDUMS (51%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%)

PERSON: LEONARDO DICAPRIO (79%); ANGELINA JOLIE (58%); TOM CRUISE (58%); REESE WITHERSPOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TURKEY (79%); JORDAN (79%); CHINA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



522 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Special Needs and a Long Commute

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: WESTBURY, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Tom Holohan, a 16-year-old with autistic symptoms, grew up paralyzed by fear and anxiety about leaving his family's home. But for the last two years, Tom has had to commute to a Connecticut boarding school that specializes in treating his disability, returning on weekends to his home in Farmingdale, N.Y.
 ''There's always this thing inside you that you want to be home,'' said Tom, who attended five day schools here on Long Island and tried home schooling before his local school district sent him to the Connecticut school, Devereux Glenholme. ''I mean, I got used to living there, but every day I think about what's going on at home. It's really difficult.'' 
 Next year, Tom is hoping to attend Westbrook Preparatory School, a $2.5 million institution that will be New York State's first residential school for students with high-functioning autism and that was founded after intense lobbying by parents, including Tom's mother, Maureen Holohan, 48, who is on the school's governing board. The new school, to serve 24 middle and high school students with average or above-average intelligence but in need of significant emotional and social support, is part of a statewide push to bring special education students back from out-of-state private schools by creating publicly financed alternatives closer to home. 
 Since 2005, out-of-state placements by school districts and social service agencies have dropped to fewer than 650 from more than 1,200, even as the number of special education students has risen slightly to 410,000, or 12 percent of the total student population. Besides Westbrook Prep, a half dozen New York City schools for the disabled are planning to add residential programs in the next few years.
 ''New York is a great state. Why should our children have to be sent out of state for services?'' said Lester Kaufman, executive vice president of Birch Family Services, a nonprofit agency that runs a network of schools for students with special needs, which is starting a residential program for 12 high school students in Flushing, Queens, next year. ''We should be able to create those services locally where the families and children live, and this is exactly what this program is about.''
 As part of the government's responsibility to provide an appropriate education for all children, school districts routinely send those with severe disabilities to private schools at costs of up to $200,000 a year per student. A New York State law requires school districts to exhaust all in-state options before considering an out-of-state placement, which is usually reserved for children with severe emotional and behavioral problems or multiple developmental disabilities. 
 But there were precious few local options for those students, with the shortage of residential schools particularly acute in New York City and Long Island, where it was difficult to build because of limited space and high real estate costs, as well as local opposition in some cases. 
 By 2005, according to state lawmakers, the price tag for out-of-state placements had reached roughly $200 million a year.
 ''It's been a problem for 40 years,'' said Bob McMahon, executive director of SCO Family of Services, a nonprofit agency that will operate Westbrook. ''It's caused a lot of hardship for parents.''
 When Diana Tasco Meyer, 42, who lives in Manhasset, sought a residential placement for her 15-year-old son, Nick, this year, the closest schools for high-functioning autism that would accept him were in North Carolina, Tennessee and Ohio. She settled for a school in Rockland County that takes students with many other kinds of disabilities. ''It's upsetting that there's nothing really in New York that's a fit for him,'' she said.
 But Nick misses his two brothers and says the two-hour drive to school is too far. ''I'm not O.K. with it because I want to be home,'' he said.
 Debate over out-of-state placements reached a peak in 2005, when the Legislature passed Billy's Law, named for Vito Albanese Jr., a Brooklyn resident known as Billy whose father said he was neglected while in residential programs in New Jersey and elsewhere. The law seeks to expand in-state special education programs, reduce out-of-state placements and give New York officials more oversight of treatment in those private schools.
 ''We were never happy with the number of students going out of state,'' said Rebecca H. Cort, New York's deputy commissioner overseeing special education. ''It was always a concern, but Billy's Law put a spotlight on it and gave real impetus for state agencies to work together to develop and expand in-state programs.''
 While local schools will probably have similarly high tuition and room-and-board charges, Dr. Cort said that keeping students in state would give New York officials more control over their education and help keep the children integrated in their communities, boosting the chance that they might transfer to day programs. She also noted that having schools here would have some economic benefit, in terms of creating jobs.
 To accommodate the returning students with disabilities, state officials have worked with existing residential schools to place them in about 250 beds that were once used for abused and neglected children referred by social service agencies. (Those numbers have been declining as students are increasingly placed in homes in their own communities.) 
 In addition, by 2011, state officials plan to create 250 beds for students with disabilities in more than a dozen residential schools, of which 142 would be in New York City and 58 on Long Island. The expansion is expected to cost tens of millions of dollars in state and local funds, but state officials said they could not provide more exact figures because the plans were still being developed.
 Westbrook Prep, the new school, will be housed in a former convent on the grounds of St. Brigid's Parish here in Nassau County. The school was dreamed up by a group of Long Island mothers, including Tom's, who met through autism support groups. Several of them had children in schools in Connecticut, and they spent much of their time driving there for visits or parent activities, often leaving their husbands and other children behind.
 ''You could never get together as a family on Sunday unless it was school vacation -- it was really hard,'' said May-Lynn Andresen, 47, a nurse and administrative director for a hospital autism center, whose 16-year-old son, Alex, has attended two boarding schools in Connecticut in the past three years. 
 Ms. Holohan spends $80 a week on gas alone to bring Tom home every weekend. She also had to trade up to a Jeep Commander because Tom -- who at 6-foot-2 is known to his family as ''the gentle giant'' -- kept bumping his head against the car roof on the long drives back and forth. 
 The mothers, who serve on the school's governing committee, raised $25,000 at a cocktail party in December to supplement the school budget, and spoke at community events to sell the idea of the school. They have also explored partnerships with local colleges and universities, including Adelphi and Hofstra, and the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System to develop a model for teaching high-functioning autistic children.
 Westbury's mayor, Ernest J. Strada, said that a few residents have opposed the school. ''It is new, and they don't know what to expect,'' he said. ''They are concerned it will have an impact on their property values.''
 But Mr. Strada considers it a welcome addition to a community that already includes a group home for the mentally retarded. ''We have a history of being good neighbors,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LEADING THE WAY: Parents involved with Westbury Preparatory School, a residential school for special-needs students, include, from left, Diana Tasco Meyer, Pat Schissel and Faith Kappenberg.
 SUPPORT SYSTEM: Nick Meyer, 15, said his two-hour drive to school was too long and he missed his brothers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL EDUCATION (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AUTISM (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); FAMILY (78%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (78%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); LOBBYING (73%); EDUCATION LAW (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); HOME SCHOOLING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



523 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'MY OWN WORST ENEMY'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Jekyll and Hyde, With a Dash of James Bond

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Most people sometimes wake up on the wrong side of bed. The hero of ''My Own Worst Enemy'' on NBC wakes up on the wrong side of his brain.
 Christian Slater plays a man with two identities. Henry Spivey is a midlevel management consultant and suburban dad with a nice wife, two children, a dog and a minivan. When he is asleep, or thinks he is asleep, Edward Albright takes over as a multilingual superspy and trained assassin. 
 Apparently it's not just in his head; the split personality is presented as the product of a scientific experiment authorized by a secret and mysterious government entity. The organization, which is led by Mavis Heller (Alfre Woodard), is known as Janus and has its secret subterranean headquarters beneath the consulting firm where Henry works -- a throwback to the dry-cleaner facade of ''The Man from U.N.C.L.E''. 
 It's not immediately clear which of the two personalities is the original one, but Henry and Edward each believe he is live, not Memorex. (And lest anyone miss the allusion to ''Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,'' Henry is named for the well-meaning Dr. Henry Jekyll, Edward for the more dangerous Mr. Edward Hyde.) The two personas are distinct, but somehow something starts to go wrong, and Henry appears in the middle of Edward's clandestine assignments. 
 ''Worst Enemy'' has a convoluted premise that is cleverly wrought and holds up well, and Mr. Slater does a remarkable job of only subtly signaling each personality: Henry, who travels almost constantly to places like Akron, Ohio, and Albany, is more mild and pleasant. Edward has a harsh, aggressive streak that is perhaps more suited to the task of international espionage -- and that includes seducing a sexy Russian spy named Natasha in a fancy hotel in Paris and using a sniper rifle to pick off Russian thugs in Moscow. 
 Oddly enough it's not the science fiction that's hard to swallow, but the outdated James Bond fantasy that spies are glamorous, Champagne-drinking Casanovas run by sleek, opulently financed handlers who are competent, ruthlessly efficient and can keep a secret. ''Chuck'' on NBC has a similar conceit, but that show is presented as a madcap comedy. 
 Television is in a bit of a time warp these days, but many new dramas that are similarly dipped in science fiction, like ''Fringe'' and ''Life on Mars,'' share a 1970s pessimism, a disenchantment with government and society that veined movies like ''Three Days of the Condor'' and ''Dog Day Afternoon'' and even cheerful television shows like ''M*A*S*H'' and ''The Rockford Files.'' That cynical 1970s mind-set is all too suited to these times of financial meltdown and global recession. 
 ''My Own Worst Enemy'' also has a retro feel. Actually it has two contradictory ones: Henry, overworked and underestimated, nurses mistrust and dark suspicions that hark back to the last days of the Nixon administration. Edward leads a dashing spy's life that evokes a brighter, shinier and confident early 1960s. There is something about Edward's cartoonish undercover life that undercuts the conceit and hints that that the whole conspiracy is a paranoid delusion. 
 Edward meets Natasha, clad in a trench coat and a smoldering look, beside a flowing fountain at nighttime in Paris. They exchange information and quickly re-establish a past connection. ''Love is the best truth serum,'' she coos. Edward replies a bit nastily, ''You mean sex.'' Natasha gets the last word: ''If I do my job right, you don't know the difference.'' Cut to a passionate bedroom scene in a large, beautiful hotel room. 
 That leads Edward to pursue a Russian mobster -- or agent -- who has possession of a metal attache case filled with precious ''marbles'' that is apparently of vital strategic interest, but could also be a metaphor for Henry/Edward's sanity.
 And there are other hints at psychological delusions. At his office Henry occasionally is sent to discuss his dreams and discontents with a beautiful shrink, Norah (Saffron Burrows), whom he calls Dr. Skinner; their sessions take place in an office that is really an enclosed glass box. 
 ''Worst Enemy'' is a well-constructed puzzle with many layers. It also has a dark sensibility that suits today's mood. Viewers are seeking culprits at the highest levels of business and government. This thriller offers up a government-backed but under-regulated agency that takes advantage of hard-working, ordinary folk on Main Street to pursue a greedy, ruthless agenda: Fannie Mae with nukes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christian Slater as Edward in ''My Own Worst Enemy.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL DRINKWATER/NBC)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (85%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); AKRON, OH, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

TITLE: My Own Worst Enemy (TV Program)>; My Own Worst Enemy (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



524 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Cuts in Athletes' Funds Unlikely, U.S.O.C. Says

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR

DATELINE: LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. 

 BODY:
Spurred by the global financial crisis, United States Olympic Committee officials said Sunday that they would cut the organization's 2009 budget, probably by trimming administrative costs and perhaps some jobs. 
 Jim Scherr, the chief executive of the U.S.O.C., emphasized that ''the last place'' the committee would look to save money would be in financing to athletes and national governing bodies.
 ''I don't think that would be affected,'' he said, after a board meeting during the annual U.S. Olympic Assembly. 
 Scherr said the U.S.O.C., compared with professional sports organizations, should be ''relatively resistant'' to worldwide financial problems. Many of those groups rely on income that could be affected by a sputtering economy, including sponsorship activation or corporate hospitality. 
 The U.S.O.C. does not receive direct government support and relies primarily on television rights fees and corporate sponsorships. Those, for the most part, are locked in through 2012.
 The U.S.O.C.'s annual budget averages $150 million. Scherr said he did not know how much the organization would have to trim in 2009.
 ''Look, it's going to be a challenging time for all entities,'' said the incoming U.S.O.C. chairman, Larry Probst, who is the chairman of Electronic Arts, a video-game publisher and distributor. ''These are unprecedented times. People are going to have to get smart about how they do business.''
 Probst replaced Peter Ueberroth this weekend as the U.S.O.C. chairman. Ueberroth will stay on as the honorary president through the 2010 Vancouver Games. Ueberroth said Saturday that he would fight for the United States to maintain its share of revenue generated by the Olympics.
 The U.S.O.C. receives nearly 13 percent of the television-rights fees in the United States and 20 percent of the global-marketing revenue from the Olympics. 
 ''Who pays the bill for the world Olympic movement?'' Ueberroth said. ''Make no mistake about it, United States of America corporations pay 60 percent of all the money in the Olympic movement, period. The rest of the world pays 40 percent.''
 A few members of the International Olympic Committee have railed against the U.S.O.C.'s share of revenue. The I.O.C. is looking into adjusting the revenue percentages received by each country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (50%)

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



525 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 479 words

 BODY:
LEADERS WORK OUT DETAILS After emergency meetings, government leaders produced bold promises to rescue the global financial system, but were still racing to work out the details before markets opened for the week. 
 TALKS ON MORGAN STANLEY Federal officials assured a big Japanese bank late Sunday that its planned investment in the embattled Wall Street giant Morgan Stanley would be protected. [A1.]
 JUMP-STARTING LENDING As nearly all of the world's major bankers and finance ministers gathered in Washington to stanch the global credit crisis, there was no assurance that credit would flow when markets reopen this week. Floyd Norris: High & Low Finance. [B1.]
 EUROPE'S BAILOUT Analysts predicted that the eventual cost of the bailout in Europe could soon rival that of the $700 billion American plan. [B1.]
 MARGIN CALLS As the value of stock portfolios plunged, executives and fund managers who had bought shares on margin -- that is, using borrowed money -- have been forced to sell millions of dollars worth of stock to settle those loans with banks. [B1.]
 CRISIS? WHAT CRISIS? Despite the worldwide financial crisis gripping the markets, Hollywood lives by its own clock. David Carr: The Media Equation. [B1.]
 MERGER COULD CHANGE A CITY The merger talks between General Motors and Chrysler, are yet another gut-punch to Detroit, a city reeling from a mayoral scandal, soaring foreclosure and unemployment rates and huge losses in the auto industry. [B1.]
 WHERE IS '30 ROCK'? ''30 Rock,'' the hugely praised but ratings-challenged comedy has yet to appear on NBC even as interest in its creator and star, Tina Fey, left, as needed has exploded. Several executives inside NBC asked last week why NBC's entertainment division was waiting until Oct. 30 to get ''30 Rock'' back on the air. [B6.] 
 AN ONLINE SLOWDOWN Newspaper companies are finding that the growth of online advertising, while still strong, is slowing sharply, and with it, revenue from the Web. Advertising. [B1.] TO SELL WINE ONLINE AmericanWinery.com will sell wine, then process the payment for bottles that will be shipped by the vintner. That approach differs from previous ones in which the online sellers would act as resellers. Bits. [B7.]
 E-BOOK PUBLISHING Newsweek will publish four books, one about each of the major presidential and vice presidential candidates, not on print but only available only as e-books for download to Amazon's Kindle device. [B6.]
 REVIVAL OF THE THIN CLIENT Interest is renewing in thin clients, the monitors connected by a network to big servers that hold software and perform data processing, as a replacement for the desktop PC. [B6.]
 A FINE ETHICAL LINE NBC correspondent Andrea Mitchell, the wife of the former Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, faces the kind of ethical quandary that energizes the staff of the Columbia Journalism Review. [B6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (88%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MERGERS (73%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (67%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); BOOK PUBLISHING (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); NETWORK SERVERS (62%); INTERNET RETAILING (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



526 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Off Birth Control

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Can This Be Pro-Life?,'' by Nicholas D. Kristof (column, Oct. 9): 
 Access to family planning is essential to the right to health. The decision by the United States Agency for International Development to cut off birth control supplies creates an unnecessary and cruel double standard for women in wealthy countries and those in the poorest countries. 
 The new policy will increase maternal deaths, jeopardize the reproductive health of women and deny both women and men the decision of when or whether to have a child. The agency must reverse this course if it truly wants to save the lives of families in the developing world. Helen Potts
 Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 9, 2008
 The writer is chief program officer for health programs, Physicians for Human Rights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); WOMEN (88%); FAMILY (88%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (88%); FAMILY PLANNING (88%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%); PHYSICIANS FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



527 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Study Warns of Hearing Loss From Music Players

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
Noise from personal music players is a routine annoyance for travelers on buses, trains and planes. 
 But it also threatens permanent hearing loss for as many as 10 million Europeans who use them, according to a scientific study for the European Union that will be published Monday. 
 The report said that those who listened for five hours a week at high-volume settings exposed themselves to more noise than permitted in the noisiest factory or work place. Maximum volume on some devices can generate as much noise as an airplane taking off nearby. 
 The study -- from a team of nine specialists on the Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified Health Risks -- also warns that young people do not realize the damage until years later. 
 ''Regularly listening to personal music players at high-volume settings when young,'' the report said, ''often has no immediate effect on hearing but is likely to result in hearing loss later in life.'' 
 The report is the latest of several to warn that the ''MP3'' generation of youths may be heading for hearing impairment in later life. 
 But older people may also be vulnerable. In the 27 countries in the European Union, an estimated 50 million to 100 million people out of about 500 million may be listening to portable music players daily, the report said. 
 Users listening at high volumes for more than an hour a day each week risk permanent hearing loss after five years. This is equivalent to 5 percent to 10 percent of the listeners, which may be 2.5 million to 10 million people in the European Union, the study concluded. 
 Such fears have already prompted litigation. In 2006 a man in Louisiana filed a lawsuit against Apple, claiming the company had failed to take adequate steps to prevent hearing loss among iPod users. 
 The suit, filed in Federal District Court in San Jose, Calif., claims that the iPod can produce sounds as loud as 115 decibels, when 89 decibels is considered that maximum for safe listening. Apple warns its customers about the danger of hearing loss in its iPod manual. 
 Personal stereos and portable phones with a music-playing facility are considered a particular threat because ear-bud type earphones lead to a greater sound exposure than other types of listening devices. 
 ''Some authors stress that if young people continue to listen to music for long periods of time and at high volume levels during several years, they run the risk of developing hearing loss by the time they reach their mid-twenties,'' the report said. ''Among young people, there are many reports of temporary or persistent tinnitus induced by loud music, but very few studies have focused on the relationship between the use of personal music players and tinnitus.'' 
 Meglena Kuneva, the European consumer affairs commissioner, planned to announce a proposal on Monday for a conference in Brussels in 2009 to evaluate the findings with national governments as well as representatives of industry and consumers. 
 The conference will discuss precautions that users can take, as well as technical solutions to minimize hearing damage. It will also consider whether there is a need for further regulations or revisions of existing safety standards. 
 The report refers to a 2004 study that recommends limiting listening time to one hour per day and setting the volume to no more than 60 percent of maximum sound output when using headphones that are placed over the ears -- and even less when using ear buds. 
 It said another study suggested restricting the maximum output level of personal music players to 90 decibels. 
 The Scientific Committee opinion argues that if users of personal music players listen for only five hours a week at volumes exceeding 89 decibels, that level would exceed the current limits in place for noise allowed in the work place. 
 Last year in Britain, the Royal National Institute for Deaf People warned that more than two-thirds of young people who regularly use MP3 players faced premature hearing damage. 
 The market for personal music devices continues to boom. In the last four years, estimated sales ranged from 184 to 246 million for all portable audio devices and from 124 to 165 million for MP3 players. 
 The European Union specialists add that although such listening devices are beneficial to many listeners, there are other dangers apart from hearing loss. 
 ''Listening to music through personal music players can be beneficial when performing boring and repetitive tasks,'' the report said. 
 ''However, it may be a hindrance for complicated tasks that require thinking. Music can distract the listeners and isolate them from their environment which can be very dangerous when driving or walking on busy roads.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (92%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (92%); DEAFNESS (91%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (89%); TRAINS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); WRITERS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); LOUISIANA, USA (53%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



528 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: Under 'No Child' Law, Even Solid Schools Falter

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
SACRAMENTO -- Prairie Elementary School had not missed a testing target since the federal No Child Left Behind law took effect in 2002. Until now.
The school, perched on a tidy, oak-shaded campus in a working-class neighborhood here, has moved each of its student groups -- Hispanics, blacks, Asians, whites, American Indians, Filipinos, Pacific Islanders, English learners, the disabled -- toward higher proficiency in recent years.
Over all, the number of its students passing tough statewide tests had increased by more than three percentage points annually, a solid record.
But this year, California schools were required to make what experts call a gigantic leap, increasing the students proficient in every group by 11 percentage points. For the first time, Prairie, and hundreds of other California schools, fell short, a failure that results in probation and, unless reversed, federal sanctions within a year. 
''And they're asking for another 11 percent increase next year and the next, and that's where I'm saying I just don't know how,'' Fawzia Keval, the school's principal, said. ''I'm spending sleepless nights.''
Across the nation, far more schools failed to meet the federal law's testing targets than in any previous year, according to new state-by-state data. And in California and some other states, the problem traces in part to the fact that officials chose to require only minimal gains in the first years after the law passed and then very rapid annual gains later. One researcher likens it to the balloon payments that can sink homebuyers.
Part of the reason for the troubles was that the states gambled the law would have been softened when it came up for reauthorization in 2007, but efforts to change it stalled. This year Congress made no organized attempt to reconsider the law. With the nation facing urgent challenges, including two wars and economic turmoil, it could be a year or more before the new president can work with Congress to rewrite the law.
The law requires every American school to bring all students to proficiency in reading and math by 2014. When it was first implemented six years ago, it required states to outline the statistical path they would follow on their way to 100 percent proficiency, and about half set low rates of achievement growth for the first few years and steeper rates thereafter.
Here in California, which in 2002 had only 13.6 percent of students proficient in reading, officials promised to raise that percentage on average by 2.2 points annually from 2002 to 2007, but starting this year greatly accelerate the progress, raising the percentage of proficient students by 11 points per year through 2014.
Now that the time has come for that accelerated improvement, California schools are not keeping up. This year, about half the state's 9,800 schools fell short.
''We're hitting a balloon payment scenario, to use a housing analogy, where the expectations set forth in the federal law are far higher than recent performance levels,'' said Richard Cardullo, a professor at the University of California, Riverside, who led an analysis of the performance of state elementary schools.
His study, published Sept. 26 in the journal Science, found that the proportion of students scoring at or above proficiency increased, on average, less than four percentage points annually from 2003 to 2007, far short of the 11 percentage points of annual growth required starting this year.
''Lots of schools are no longer going to be able to meet the law's requirements,'' Dr. Cardullo said. His study predicted that virtually every elementary school in California would fall short of the federal law's expectations before 2014.
Why did California decide on six years of relatively slow achievement growth, followed by six years of extraordinary gains? Officials from many states told the Bush administration in 2002 that they needed time to write new tests and accustom teachers to them.
But the California state school superintendent, Jack O'Connell, said he also bet that Congress might change the law in 2007, perhaps by removing its 100 percent proficiency goal. ''It's true that was in the back of my mind when we negotiated our plan with the feds,'' Mr. O'Connell said. ''And I'd do the same thing again. I'm still hoping a new administration will change the law.''
Meanwhile, the law has had other unintended consequences -- including its tendency to punish states, like California, that have high academic standards and rigorous tests, which have contributed to an increasing pileup of failed schools.
A state-by-state analysis by The New York Times found that in the 40 states reporting on their compliance so far this year, on average, 4 in 10 schools fell short of the law's testing targets, up from about 3 in 10 last year. Few schools missed targets in states with easy exams, like Wisconsin and Mississippi, but states with tough tests had a harder time. In Hawaii, Massachusetts and New Mexico, which have stringent exams, 60 to 70 percent of schools missed testing goals. And in South Carolina, which has what may be the nation's most rigorous tests, 83 percent of schools missed targets.
''The law is diagnosing schools that just have the sniffles with having pneumonia,'' said Jim Rex, the South Carolina schools superintendent.
Under the law, all public schools must test students every year and if those in any group fall short, the school misses its targets and is put on probation. All states adopt their own curriculums and testing standards, and the rigor of the tests varies greatly.
Schools that miss targets for two consecutive years are labeled ''needing improvement'' and face escalating sanctions that can include staff changes or closings. Partly because the law is identifying thousands of schools, however, few states have tried to radically restructure more than a few.
Margaret Spellings, the federal education secretary, acknowledged in an interview that the law's mechanism for holding schools accountable needed refinement because it works as a pass-fail system in which schools with only minor problems are in the same category as chaotic institutions with students running the halls.
''We passed the best law we could seven years ago,'' Ms. Spellings said. ''There's wide recognition that this is something we need to address.''
Under a pilot program known as differentiated accountability, Ms. Spellings has given six states -- Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland and Ohio -- permission to treat schools labeled for improvement that have missed targets for only one group differently than those needing sweeping intervention.
But the rate at which schools have been identified as needing improvement has not yet become worrisome, she said. ''Pretty much every organization needs improvement,'' she said.
Ms. Spellings has fiercely defended the law's requirement that all students achieve proficiency by 2014.
Among that provision's most tenacious critics has been Robert Linn, a University of Colorado professor emeritus who is one of the nation's foremost testing experts. He argued, almost from the law's passage, that no society anywhere has brought 100 percent of students to proficiency, and that the annual gains required to meet the goal of universal proficiency were unrealistically rapid, since even great school systems rarely sustain annual increases in the proportion of students demonstrating proficiency topping three to four percentage points.
''If, no matter how hard teachers work, the school is labeled as a failure, that's just demoralizing,'' Dr. Linn said.
Ms. Keval, the principal at Prairie Elementary, has been fighting demoralization herself since learning of this year's test results, she said.
Educated in British schools in Kenya, she speaks Urdu, Swahili and five other languages, and several teachers said she was an inspirational leader. Ms. Keval described her staff as qualified, hard-working and dedicated to student progress.
Eight out of 10 children at the school are poor -- the children of gardeners and maids, retail clerks and short-order cooks, the unemployed -- yet all groups have made progress.
When the law took effect in 2002, 22 percent of all students and 19 percent of blacks were proficient in reading. Ms. Keval has for several years used federal money to hire extra reading teachers and to organize additional instructional time for low-scoring students after school and during vacation periods.
As a result, reading proficiency has increased on average by nearly four percentage points each recent year, although black students have improved more slowly. On California's state tests this year, 42 percent of Prairie's students schoolwide and 40 percent of Hispanics demonstrated reading proficiency. But only 29 percent of blacks demonstrated proficiency, and since California schools were required to raise the proportion of proficient students in every group from 24 percent to 35 percent this year, that was not good enough. The school has been put on probation.
''I know we'll continue to make gains with our students, but whether we can meet the next No Child target remains to be seen,'' she said. ''In one year, its hard to make an 11 percent impact.''
Dr. Linn said Ms. Keval had good reason to worry.
''An 11 percent increase from one year to the next, that is pretty gigantic,'' Dr. Linn said, ''compared to how most schools improve from one year to the next.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vanessa Rodriguez, 9, in a fourth-grade class at Prairie Elementary in Sacramento. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Fawzia Keval, the principal of Prairie Elementary in Sacramento, which had not missed a testing target since the No Child Left Behind law took effect. ''I'm spending sleepless nights,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14) CHARTS: Falling Behind Schedule: Schools are failing to meet achievement goals under the federal No Child Left Behind law. When the law took effect in 2002, it called for all of the nation's schools to bring 100 percent of their students to proficiency in reading and math by 2014. Each state outlined its own statistical path to meet the goal, but many, like California, are realizing that their annual progress objectives were unrealistic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Sources: State Departments of Education
Center on Education Policy
 Federal Department of Education) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



529 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Waterfalls Exit, but With Unintended Impact

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ; Ann Farmer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Olafur Eliasson, the Danish-Icelandic artist who created the four waterfall exhibits on the East River, has said that he wanted people looking at them to reconsider their relationship to the surroundings. Scott Stamford has been doing just that, though not in the way Mr. Eliasson intended.
 Mr. Stamford is the manager of the River Cafe, a popular scenic restaurant on Water Street in Brooklyn, steps away from the waterfall installed under the Brooklyn Bridge. Whenever the wind blew in from the north, which is to say often, the restaurant's workers, patrons and windows would get covered with a saltwater spray from the waterfall, Mr. Stamford said. 
 ''I consider it a major impact on our ability to make guests happy,'' he said of the waterfall. 
 The restaurant's trees and plants also suffered damage from the saltwater, as a sign at the restaurant bluntly states. On a circular brick driveway in front of the restaurant, the trees are empty of leaves, as are the trees closest to the waterfall in the nearby garden. On the restaurant's outdoor deck, many of the ferns, begonias and other plants had to be replaced. In recent months, a number of customers waiting for a table outside the restaurant were seen leaving after getting wet. 
 ''You can taste the salt,'' said Nicole Zoppi, 25, the restaurant's reservation manager. ''At times, it's like it's raining. People will come out to get into their car and it's covered with a thick film of salt.''
 The waterfalls exhibit -- four giant water-pumping contraptions made of construction scaffolding that collectively churned 35,000 gallons of East River water each minute -- draws to a close Monday after a 15-week run that began June 26. 
 The waterfalls took a team of nearly 200 designers, engineers and construction experts to build, at a cost of $15.5 million. The four structures were the city's biggest public art project since ''The Gates'' in 2005, when thousands of gates draped with saffron-colored fabric panels were positioned along Central Park's pathways. Organized by the nonprofit Public Art Fund and the City of New York, the waterfalls have their own Web site, www.nycwaterfalls.org, and were the main attraction of special boat trips operated by Circle Line Downtown. They generated hundreds of homages on YouTube. 
 Though they caused a great deal of gawking and picture-taking, the waterfalls also stirred a fair amount of controversy.
 Mr. Stamford, Ms. Zoppi and a number of Brooklyn residents said two waterfalls -- the one under the Brooklyn Bridge and one near the Brooklyn Heights Promenade -- wreaked havoc on trees and other plants at the restaurant and along the Promenade. The city's oldest and largest neighborhood association, the Brooklyn Heights Association, sent soil samples to the Cornell Nutrient Analysis Laboratory at Cornell University. The results of some samples taken at the River Cafe and near the Promenade showed high levels of salt in the soil.
 ''Except for a few of the evergreen holly bushes, everything within the range of the waterfall turned brown and lost leaves,'' said Judy Stanton, executive director of the Brooklyn Heights Association. ''It looked as if wintertime had come to the Promenade.'' 
 In response to complaints and based on a recommendation by the city's parks department, the Public Art Fund cut the waterfalls' operating hours in half beginning in September, to 49.5 hours per week from 101 hours per week. Crews were dispatched to hose down trees in affected areas with fresh water once or twice a day.
 City and Public Art Fund officials said hundreds of thousands of people viewed the exhibit, which they said was an artistic, cultural and economic success, despite the reduction in hours. 
 The city's Economic Development Corporation is preparing a report that will include an estimate of the number of spectators and the economic activity that the waterfalls created. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and other city officials had said that the exhibit was expected to generate $55 million in economic activity during its run. Jason Post, a spokesman for the mayor, said that anecdotal reports suggested that the exhibit met or exceeded those expectations, citing sold-out boat tours as one example.
 A spokeswoman for the Public Art Fund said that the daily watering improved the condition of the trees and decreased the salinity in the soil, which is also being tested by the parks department. ''While the adverse impact of the mist from the waterfalls appears not to have been fully appreciated by any party involved in the review of the plans for the project, it was immediately addressed when the impact on the trees appeared,'' the spokeswoman, Stacy Bolton said.
 On Sunday afternoon in Brooklyn, the structures received mixed reviews from onlookers. Some said they were beautiful and should become permanent exhibitions on the waterfront, while others said they looked like, well, scaffolding. 
 Ben Corman, 21, a valet at the River Cafe, said that if he did not work so close to one, and go home smelling like the East River, he would probably like them. Stacy Pisone, 44, a restaurant owner at a playground near the waterfall under the Brooklyn Bridge, said she would be sad to see them go. ''As soon as they went on today everybody went 'Aah, look, the waterfalls are on,' '' she said. 
 But Gene Kezena, 67, a retired engineer who lives in Brooklyn Heights and was relaxing Sunday on the Promenade, described them as ''kind of ridiculous.''
 ''It was almost like a Coney Island sort of thing,'' he said. ''I looked at it and said, 'It's not exactly Niagara Falls.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Trees at the River Cafe in Brooklyn have lost their leaves, and salt mist from the waterfall exhibit, center rear, is being blamed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FILM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (61%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



530 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: For Housing Authority, One Blow After Another

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
In the span of five months, leaders of the New York City Housing Authority have gone from hardship to hardship to heartbreak.
 In May, the chairman of the Housing Authority, Tino Hernandez, and its general manager, Douglas Apple, faced tough questions from the City Council about the agency's financial crisis, drawing criticism from council members and tenants about a plan to cut costs by shutting hundreds of community centers, senior centers and resident programs. 
 In August, a 5-year-old boy fell to his death at the Taylor-Wythe complex in Brooklyn after trying to escape from a stalled elevator. The accident focused scrutiny on the safety and maintenance of the Housing Authority's elevators. 
 On Friday, the agency was offering its condolences again, this time to the family of an 11-day-old infant at the Van Dyke Houses in Brooklyn. The infant, Christian McFadden, was being rushed to the hospital from a Van Dyke building after he stopped breathing, but the elevator stalled for 20 to 30 seconds and officers had to pry open the doors and carry the baby down the stairs, the authorities said. Christian was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital.
 Saturday brought yet another blow: Five members of a family, including three children, were killed in an apartment fire at the Robert Fulton Houses in Chelsea.
 The Housing Authority, which runs the city's 343 public housing complexes, has earned a national reputation as not only the largest but the best-managed public housing system in the country. The string of deaths, questions about the maintenance of building elevators and the agency's ability to withstand dwindling financial support from the federal, state and local governments are threatening that reputation. 
 At least 12 tenants, 7 of them children, have died or were wounded or raped in separate incidents in recent months, though most were acts of violence that would have been impossible for the agency to anticipate or prevent. But three of the episodes -- the 5-year-old boy's death, the stalled Van Dyke elevator on Friday and the fire in Chelsea on Saturday -- remain under investigation by the authorities, and whether the agency's oversight and maintenance played any role has not been determined.
 Tenants have complained of elevator problems that they say have gone unaddressed for years, and a recent report by the Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, found that a number of complexes around the city failed all or all but a handful of their routine inspections. The Brooklyn district attorney's office has started an investigation into the 5-year-old boy's death, and as a result, the housing agency has hired Reed Smith, one of the country's largest law firms, to represent it.
 In the apartment that caught fire on Saturday, a smoke detector had been disabled, Fire Department officials said. The detector's wires to the apartment's electrical system were disconnected and its 9-volt battery was missing. Housing officials said that during an annual inspection in February, the smoke detector was replaced and was in operating order, and that in April the detector was again found to be operable.
 The Housing Authority is a mammoth institution. It has an operating budget of $2.8 billion. It is the city's biggest landlord, with 403,000 residents living in 178,000 apartments. Problems are inevitable for such a giant landlord, but this has been an especially trying year.
 In March, a bullet went through an apartment window at the Langston Hughes Apartments in Brownsville, Brooklyn, wounding a 9-year-old girl. Her apartment is near the Van Dyke Houses, where two women were raped in March and where the elevator stalled on Friday. Also in March, a 27-year-old mother of three was shot and killed as she chatted with neighbors at Stuyvesant Gardens in Brooklyn.
 Two rookie police officers were disciplined for lying about conducting patrols at the time of the first rape at Van Dyke. Morale among Housing Authority workers remains low, as the agency has eliminated hundreds of jobs to deal with its operating budget deficit, which is expected to climb to $207 million in 2012.
 ''My hope is that N.Y.C.H.A. and its residents are not judged or measured on these incidents alone,'' Mr. Hernandez said in an interview on Sunday. 
 He said the agency is reaching out to relatives of the five victims of the Chelsea fire to offer support. ''There's no greater pain than the pain of the families,'' he said of the fire and the other recent tragedies. ''Our hearts go out to them.'' 
 Mr. Hernandez said that the agency's crises can overshadow its successes, including an overall drop in crime and administrative steps to increase federal and state financing. ''We've been around 75 years, and these challenges only serve to renew our commitment to preserve this vital resource to New York City,'' he said.
 Housing Authority officials have mostly kept a low profile in the aftermath of the 5-year-old's death in Brooklyn and the fatal fire on Saturday in Chelsea. The agency has limited its comments about elevators, citing the Brooklyn district attorney's investigation. Last month, officials were criticized for failing to send a representative to a hearing on elevator safety sponsored by Mr. Stringer's office.
 High-profile tragedies have a history of defining -- and in one case, ending -- the tenure of Housing Authority managers. Ruben Franco resigned as chairman of the agency in January 1999, about one month after a fire in a 10-story building in Brooklyn killed three firefighters. The sprinkler system in the building had not activated during the fire.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tino Hernandez, the housing authority's chairman, has faced tough questions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEATHS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (75%); HOME SECURITY (74%); SMOKE DETECTORS (74%); CITIES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); FIRES (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (62%); LEGAL SERVICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



531 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: L.A. Follows Its Own Script

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Hollywood 

 BODY:
 One of the pleasures of flying out of Newark -- and there are so many -- is the epic view of Manhattan, that soaring bulwark of affluence and might just off the coast of America. 
 But on Friday, when we pulled out for points west just after sunrise, I imagined all the brick-and-mortar ambition sinking into the rivers that encircle it. No need to ask why so glum, not with everybody watching their 401(k)'s pirouette down a black hole. Each passing day has brought new nightmares on Wall Street and more shared misery.
 Still, by the end of the day, I was sitting on a hotel patio in Los Angeles, staring up the hill at that Hollywood sign and chatting with a smart young woman who markets movies. When the subject of the tumbling economy finally came up, she said that she had indeed been cutting back -- by ordering drip coffee instead of a latte. 
 I waited a bit for the woman to crack a smile, to hammer me for being so credulous, but then I realized she was serious.
 Hollywood comes by its indifference honestly. Certainly, the stock prices of the big media companies that own the film industry are getting pounded on the market along with the rest of us, and the canyons are no doubt full of little rivers of blood as individuals watch their net worth shrink.
 But out there at the box office, it is still morning in America. Four major movies opened on Friday, and they came on the heels of seven movies the week before, most of which did quite nicely, thank you. The fact that ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua'' has topped the box office for two weeks running and has taken in over $52 million may be one of the signs of the apocalypse, but not the kind that has anything to do with credit default swaps.
 ''It's times like these that some of those jokes about the people in Los Angeles seem valid,'' said Peter Bart, the editor in chief of Variety. ''There has always been the suggestion that this city is not acutely conscious of what is going on in the rest of the world, and this is one of the times when it lives up to the reputation. There are many people here who don't read a lot and because of that are less obsessed by what is happening back in New York.''
 Spend any time here, and you will soon learn that Hollywood lives by its own clock. Because movies are generally large endeavors that take time to come together, they reflect things that were happening three years ago while the studios' capital outlays speculate on the needs of the market three years hence. 
 After taking a big hit during the Depression, the Hollywood box office came back strong -- and this time could be no different. The consumer might consider a night of watching the serial disaster movie on CNBC or CNN, or decide to head to the movies instead, which is why the people who finance Hollywood continue to make large bets that people will still go to the movies. 
 In the last few weeks, billions -- not from the federal government, but from actual banks -- are being invested even as brokers back East stare into the abyss of their trading terminals. 
 Reuters reported last Thursday that JPMorgan Chase -- one of the industry's go-to financiers -- knocked out three big deals, including a venture between the Reliance ADA Group of India and Steven Spielberg's DreamWorks SKG. The bank has already put up $125 million -- and $600 million more from other lenders is on hold for the moment, but there's no reason to think the deal won't go through. 
 JPMorgan also wrapped up a $350 million deal for Media Rights Capital, the company that is making the latest Cameron Diaz movie and was the leader in gathering the $1 billion to finance the digital upgrade of 20,000 movie theaters to help increase the capacity to show 3-D films. 
 There is enormous pent-up demand for films that will be ready in 2009 and 2010 because the writers' strike held up production and then the threat of an actors' strike pinched schedules. But the industry seems to have collectively decided that actors won't risk a strike during a huge economic headwind. Approximately 50 movies from the various studios have received some sort of approval and will enter production soon, according to Variety.
 Right now, there is still a clutter of films, many of them small-bore indies financed by all of the hedge fund guys looking for a place to store their winnings and pick up a little reflected glory in the process. Let's just say with current market dynamics and the closing of so many specialty divisions by studios -- Paramount Vantage, New Line, Warner Independent and Picturehouse -- that won't be a problem going forward. Studios will come under pressure from their stock-punished parents back East, but no one wants to be caught with no movies to show when the forest fire finally abates. 
 ''It sort of emphasizes the obvious,'' said John Lesher, president of Paramount Pictures. Shares of Viacom, which owns Paramount, fell more than 17 percent on Friday after it cut profit forecasts. ''We have to find stories that have a reliable global appeal and make them in a prudent manner. As an industry, we can't just make a bunch of movies and see what sticks. But we still have to make the movies.''
 Another studio head who was traveling and did not want to be quoted by name suggested something similar.
 ''If the films are good, people will go. And if they are bad, they won't,'' he said. ''I personally believe that that will always be more important on any given day in the film business than where the Dow is or how liquid some banks' collateralized debt obligation is.''
 New Yorkers have long written off Los Angeles as a sideshow, a city where real business is not done. But for the time being, entertainment is making bets even as manufacturing, retailing, and now financial engineering tank. Americans have not demonstrated a great deal of mastery over capitalism, our gift to the world. But we still know how to put on a show.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (88%); MOVIE REVENUES (74%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); WOMEN (73%); COFFEE (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (71%); TICKET SALES (69%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (68%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



532 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Crisis Is Milder Outside Finance

BYLINE: By EDWARD HADAS

 BODY:
Crisis Is Milder
 Outside Finance
 ''What should I do about the crisis?'' Anyone who follows finance has been asked that question a lot lately by friends and relatives. It's hard to answer, but not because there's nothing to be done. As yet, there's just not much of a crisis for them to do anything about. Things will get worse -- but probably not horrendously so.
 True, financial woes are severe. Adjusted for inflation, the S.& P. 500 index of domestic stocks has fallen by 45 percent from its 2007 high. That's not far from the 55 percent inflation-adjusted tumble from 1972 to 1974, itself the worst drop since the Great Depression. Money markets -- central to the daily operation of the financial system -- are virtually frozen. And the list of storied financial firms that have failed or been forced into mergers keeps getting longer. 
 For those employed in finance, these are truly dark times. Optimists think the industry head count will shrink by 20 percent. Pay this year and next will be down by much more. Financiers are also rapidly becoming social lepers. 
 But back in the nonfinance world, which represents about 90 percent of the United States population, it doesn't look nearly so bad. To begin with, in comparison to real human calamities -- natural disasters, epidemics and wars -- messed-up markets aren't a big deal. But even in pure economic terms, the disruption is still relatively minor. 
 Sure, the domestic unemployment rate is up to 6.1 percent, from 4.4 percent in 2007, and set to rise further. But it's unlikely to hit the 1982 postwar peak of 11 percent, let alone the 25 percent or higher that occurred in the 1930s. 
 That's the work side of the economy. The production and consumption stories are much the same. Economic output in rich countries, as measured by gross domestic product, is likely to fall in 2009 -- but by something less than 2 percent. That's unpleasant but far from tragic. Compare that with the aftermath of the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Russian G.D.P. dropped by half, and from a much lower per-capita starting point. Life expectancies fell by more than during the Second World War. 
 In America, the decline in spending is basically a sign of recovering health. For years, the country suffered from economic illnesses of excess -- too much construction, borrowing and financial speculation. Many of the people who are now suffering profited when times were too good. 
 The shakeout should lead to a more balanced economy. But the risk amid such market turmoil is that the cure for economic ailments proves excessively debilitating. Falling asset prices, failing institutions and fear of worse to come are all feeding on each other, so that the world's financial blood is barely circulating. Ordinary people are worried about simply putting money in the bank.
 If nothing were done, the banking system could collapse, and bring down much of the economy with it. That's what happened in the Great Depression, when a shortage of money led to a steep downward spiral of wages and production.
 But that episode taught a clear lesson: governments have a responsibility to keep the financial system going. The basic techniques are well understood. Governments and central banks provide sufficient funds to keep depositors whole and lenders lending. 
 Authorities in America and around the world are working hard to do that, by strengthening bank balance sheets and trying to bolster confidence. As yet, they haven't done enough -- partly because of a cycle of losses and forced liquidations that will eventually run its course, assets are still losing value faster than new funds are being created.
 There's no limit to the amount of money governments can inject, and there are many techniques for making the government's funds useful, including loans, guarantees and the purchase of new shares. There's still a possibility that fear will continue to trump hope for an uncomfortably long time. But with everyone trying hard to keep a depression away, the authorities ought to be able to win the monetary battle in relatively short order. 
 That would leave the world with just a mild recession to deal with -- and financial types with fewer worried questions to answer. EDWARD HADAS 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The news last Monday in Manhattan. The woes of big banks in relation to other misfortunes of everyday life may be overstated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMANUEL DUNAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (79%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (70%); CONSUMPTION (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (65%); WORLD WAR II (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



533 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan President to Visit China, a Valued Ally

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
President Asif Ali Zardari is scheduled to visit China for four days starting Tuesday, in an effort to reinforce Pakistan's ties with a traditional ally at a time when relations with the United States have come under considerable strain.
 President Zardari's visit comes barely two weeks after Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the country's military chief, made a five-day visit to China. 
 The high-profile visits signify the importance Pakistan attaches to China, a neighbor that is considered a close and reliable ally. The relationship between the countries is unlike the relationship between Pakistan and the United States, which has been rocky and often complicated, and based on short-term needs and expediency.
 Arif Rafiq, an analyst of Pakistan politics, said, however, that ''the two closely timed visits to China by President Zardari and General Kayani are not part of a strategy by Pakistan to play Beijing and Washington off one another.'' Rather, he said the timing was coincidental. 
 Pakistan, facing economic difficulties, is looking to China for foreign aid and closer economic cooperation. Mr. Zardari will also push for cooperation to assist Pakistan's civilian nuclear program. To overcome an acute energy shortage, Pakistan relies on nuclear energy for power generation. 
 Mr. Zardari had announced he would visit China last month, soon after assuming office, following the precedent set by other leaders. But his visit was postponed, which drew strong criticism by nationalists and opinion writers. Many of them accused the government of downgrading relations with China while trying to placate the United States. 
 Pakistani officials deny these assertions. 
 ''Pakistan's relations with the United States and China are not an either-or proposition,'' said Husain Haqqani, the Pakistani ambassador to Washington, who is thought to be the intellectual driving force behind the government's foreign policy.
 ''While some armchair analysts might look unfavorably upon Pakistan's simultaneous pursuit of close relations with China and the United States,'' he said, ''policy makers in Washington and Beijing share interest in strengthening Pakistan and do not see our country as an area of contention between the two powers.'' Mr. Haqqani emphasized that during the 1970s, Pakistan acted as a bridge between the United States and China.
 The early relationship between Pakistan and China stemmed in large part from an effort to provide a bulwark against India. Both countries have fought wars against India. 
 Pakistan's military ties with China remain strong, and China has assisted Pakistan in tank production, fighter aircraft manufacturing and naval technology. 
 But since the late 1990s, economic concerns have gained increased importance. Trade and energy have taken precedence in Pakistan's relations with China. Trade between the countries is more than $7 billion a year, and both sides have a target of $15 billion by 2010. 
 In recent years, Chinese investment in Pakistan has grown, with Beijing investing in heavy engineering, power generation, mining and telecommunications.
 China has also helped Pakistan build a deepwater sea port in Gwadar, in Baluchistan Province. Apart from its economic value, analysts say, the port, in the country's southwest, has great strategic importance. It can be militarized in the future, providing China with a base to defend Persian Gulf oil shipping lanes. India regards the port with discomfort. 
 In his first speech before the Parliament as president last month, Mr. Zardari vowed to take to greater heights what he called the ''time-tested and all-weather friendship and strategic partnership with China.'' 
 He also said that Pakistan would not tolerate any violation of its sovereignty by ''any power'' -- an allusion to the United States and its strikes inside Pakistani territory. American officials have expressed frustration with Pakistan's efforts to curb the Taliban and Al Qaeda in its restive, semiautonomous tribal regions along the border with Afghanistan.
 At the same time, there are areas in which the Chinese have also expressed dissatisfaction. China has asked Pakistan to ensure and enhance the security of its citizens, who have been increasingly singled out in Pakistan. 
 Last month, two Chinese engineers working for a telecommunications company were abducted in the restive Swat region of the North-West Frontier Province. Local Taliban leaders claimed responsibility. 
 Last year, hard-line clerics of Red Mosque in Islamabad abducted seven Chinese masseuses working in a massage parlor. They were freed a day later, but the subsequent siege and military raid of the Red Mosque compound by Pervez Musharraf, then the president, was seen as a result of pressure from China. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); AIRCRAFT MFG (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



534 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Back Rubs? Check. Chickens? Not at These Fairs.

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY; Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Javier Ortiz rounded the corner from 79th Street onto Amsterdam Avenue at midday on Sunday and let out a groan. To his left, a vendor was selling gooey mozzarella-filled arepas. To his right, a row of blenders whipped fruit into froth. Mr. Ortiz knew what lay ahead. There would be overly solicitous masseuses. Someone would be hawking 400-thread-count Egyptian cotton sheets. And on the block after that, and the block after that, there would be more arepas, more smoothies, more masseuses. More sheets. 
 To his dismay, Mr. Ortiz, 38, had found himself in the middle of a Manhattan street fair. 
 ''They're all the same, and they're all too frequent,'' said Mr. Ortiz, who works in finance and thus, by his own admission, could use some cheering up. His friend Michael Connelly shared Mr. Ortiz's disdain. ''They're just clones that pick up and move around the city,'' said Mr. Connelly, 23. The two were on their way to brunch. ''And this is just in our way,'' he added. 
 It might seem counterintuitive that any New Yorker should dislike a street fair. After all, the fairs allow pedestrians and vendors to reclaim roadways usually choked with cars. But critics say New York's street fairs are too often filled by the same vendors selling the same wares. Recently, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said he thought the street fairs were too numerous and too homogeneous, echoing a critique put forth in a report by a nonprofit group, Center for an Urban Future, two years ago. 
 ''They're still bland and generic, and they really don't reflect what's unique about New York City,'' said one of the report's authors, Jonathan Bowles. The vast majority of the street fairs are run by three production companies, contributing to their sameness, Mr. Bowles said last week. More fairs, he said, should be like the Atlantic Antic and the Flatbush Frolic, both in Brooklyn, which incorporate smaller local vendors and craftspeople.
 At three of the six major street fairs in Manhattan this weekend, people's opinions about them varied, even if the offerings -- arepas, grilled corn on the cob, falafel, crepes, socks -- did not. Tourists and visitors from other boroughs tended to love them, while people who lived close to regular fair sites were, over all, a little more circumspect. 
 Stephen Pijanowski, 39, who was visiting from Chicago, loved the street fairs so much that he went to one on Saturday and another on Sunday, both in Midtown. ''We have nothing like this in Chicago. I bought a blanket, two hoodies, three cashmere scarves, sunglasses and two T-shirts,'' Mr. Pijanowski said. ''I think it's great for the economy now. And for meeting people.'' 
 Eric Isaacson, 43, rode the Q train from Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, to go to a fair in Midtown on Sunday. ''There are so many different people here -- not just tourists, but also New Yorkers,'' said Mr. Isaacson, who works at a phone company. He had just polished off some falafel and kettle corn, and was contemplating having a shish kebab. ''I found out there was a street fair, so I didn't eat much last night,'' he said.
 But uptown on Amsterdam Avenue on Sunday, Miko Newman, 7, writhed in boredom as her mother, Jessica Newman, checked out some jewelry. ''She's been to a lot of these, and they're always the same,'' said Miko's father, Seiji Newman, 38. ''When you say 'fair,' they expect donkeys, chickens and rides.''
 ''There's chickens?'' Miko asked hopefully. (There were not.) 
 Other locals said they were of two minds about the fairs. David Orbach, who treated himself to a sausage sandwich at a fair in Midtown on Saturday, lamented that the fairs were ''a dime a dozen'' and often failed to reflect a neighborhood's character. Still, he said, the fairs employed vendors and gave people a chance to meander the streets. 
 ''I understand that they mess up traffic and they are inconvenient to residents,'' said Mr. Orbach, 46, who is a traffic manager for film production companies. ''But at the same time, there are a lot of people who enjoy a long day doing this stuff.''
 According to the city's figures, the number of street fairs is going down. This year, 331 fairs were scheduled, compared with the 357 held last year. 
 Despite the drop, some vendors said they felt fairs were still offering too much of the same, often to their detriment. Mikhail Musheyev, who is 20 and from Queens, said that business at his Egyptian cotton sheet stand was down 40 percent from last year, due to an influx of competition. ''People in the city get used to it and expect to see bedsheets here,'' said Mr. Musheyev's brother Artur, 18. ''But it's the same people selling the same things all the time.''
 But Gail Jones, who lives on the Upper East Side and was strolling along Amsterdam Avenue on Sunday, said she took comfort in the reliable offerings she found at the street fair.
 She had just bought an ear of grilled corn, and was setting off to find a masseuse who, she believed, gave the best back rub around.
 ''It's great,'' Ms. Jones said of the fair. ''And if you don't like it, don't go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Avenue of the Americas was packed with fairgoers in Midtown Manhattan on Sunday. Not all locals are so enthusiastic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); COTTON FABRICS (71%); MASSAGE SERVICES (71%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



535 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: After Weekend Full of Talks, No Sign of a Lending Thaw

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS; Mark Landler contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 But will the banks lend to each other?
 At the end of a weekend when nearly all of the world's major bankers and finance ministers gathered in Washington to stanch the global credit crisis, there was no assurance that credit would flow when markets reopen this week.
 In an effort to get credit moving, European leaders on Sunday promised to guarantee new loans to banks, which have stopped lending to one another as the crisis has deepened. But they left it up to each nation's government to provide details of how its own banking system would be protected. Australia also announced such guarantees, but there was no similar announcement from the United States, where officials declined to say what action, if any, they would take.
 Until the credit crisis intensified after Lehman Brothers failed, banks lent freely to each other. This assured that each bank would have money if needed for any number of business purposes, like lending to their clients. 
 But after Lehman's demise resulted in some banks not getting paid money that was owed them, banks became leery of lending to each other to avoid the same thing happening again. The tightening of credit led banks to hold on to cash, fearful that they might not be able to borrow if they needed to do so, and meant they were less willing to lend to companies that needed money to finance their inventories and even their payrolls. 
 This crisis of confidence in the credit markets raised concerns about the likelihood of a deep recession and was a precipitating factor in the stock market's steep plunge last week. That banks remain afraid to lend to each other has reduced confidence in the financial system, as investors questioned why they should have faith in banks if other banks did not trust their peers.
 Many of the financial support measures rushed through by American and European leaders recently have been aimed at restoring that lost faith. But while it is not at all clear that a return to normal lending between banks would restore credit availability to companies that are finding it difficult to borrow, it is hard to imagine that happening unless the interbank market starts functioning smoothly again. 
 Denmark sought to overcome this problem last week by guaranteeing all loans between banks, an unprecedented initiative that its parliament approved Sunday, the same day other European countries promised to do something similar.
 The United States has so far not embraced such guarantees, which would go well beyond previous practices and draw the government yet more rapidly into the financial crisis. 
 Instead, to help companies more directly, it has agreed to make loans to businesses that can no longer borrow in the commercial paper market, and Congress has approved a $700 billion bailout fund that will be used to purchase bank assets and to buy stock in financial institutions. It has also raised the level of deposit insurance in banks to $250,000 per depositor from $100,000. 
 And while a growing chorus of voices is urging the government to consider guaranteeing interbank lending, there is concern that such a move would risk putting taxpayers on the hook for far more if a failing bank borrowed heavily in that market to offset falling deposits. 
 Seeking to assure investors that the financial systems would return to normal, the finance ministers of the Group of 7, the major industrial countries, announced a set of five general principles on Friday night. Bankers immediately complained that they needed more information and remained reluctant to lend until politicians were clearer on how the rescue plans would work.
 ''These are the right principles,'' said Josef Ackermann, the chief executive of Deutsche Bank. ''It needs much more specific details.'' 
 The European announcement on Sunday, made after a summit meeting in Paris, did not include a Europe-wide fund, which some governments have resisted out of fear they would have to bail out banks in other countries.
 That left it possible that some banks would get a competitive advantage from having guarantees from a government that was thought to be better able to meet its new obligations if a major bank were to fail.
 ''Once this has sunk in, people are going to think about the consolidated balance sheets of governments,'' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund and now a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 ''Some of these banks have $2 trillion to $3 trillion balance sheets, which is huge compared to the capacity'' of such governments as Britain and Germany, he said.
 Mr. Johnson said he thought the United States might have to follow if Europe came up with effective guarantees.
 Without a uniform international standard for such guarantees, Mr. Ackerman warned that cash would flow from unprotected banking systems to protected ones, what is known as ''regulatory arbitrage.'' 
 That could also happen within the United States if loans between commercial banks were guaranteed but loans to savings associations, brokerage firms and insurance companies were not.
 Behind that lurks another risk: Some bankers said that they dared not resume normal lending in the interbank market, in part because investors might think that banks making loans to weaker institutions were taking on too much risk. One promise from the finance ministers was to ''support systemically important financial institutions and prevent their failure.'' 
 On Friday, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, refused to say whether Goldman Sachs, the firm he used to run, or Morgan Stanley, whose share price has collapsed, qualified as such an institution. But by Sunday the government appeared ready to provide some sort of support for that company.
 Part of the weekend was devoted to promises that this would never happen again, with bankers saying they had strengthened their risk management systems and expected new regulatory arrangements to be made.
 Richard Fisher, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said the Fed had moved quickly to stem the crisis and would do more as needed. But he was silent on what role, if any, the Fed had played in bringing on the crisis.
 There were plenty of ''I told you so's,'' with two of the most poignant ones coming from Jacob A. Frenkel and William R. Rhodes.
 Each of them, well-known economists active in international forums, had warned about the risks of a financial system growing more and more leveraged, with house prices rising to unsustainable levels.
 ''We were ignored,'' Mr. Rhodes said in a speech to the Institute of International Finance, a group of the major financial institutions, of which he is a vice chairman.
 Among those who evidently disregarded the warnings were their employers. Mr. Frenkel, formerly the governor of the Central Bank of Israel, is vice chairman of American International Group. Mr. Rhodes is a senior vice chairman of Citigroup.
 In a speech to the institute, Mr. Frenkel complained that the new G-7 principles left many important questions unanswered.
 ''How?'' he inquired after reading the finance ministers' promise to ''unfreeze credit and money markets.'' 
 ''What about the ones that are not?'' he asked after reading the promise to keep ''systemically important'' institutions from failing.
 Monday is a partial holiday in the United States, with the stock market open but some banks celebrating Columbus Day. That could delay until Tuesday the development of clear evidence of whether the banks are still afraid to lend to each other -- and of whether the credit crisis will continue to worsen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Global finance leaders gathered Sunday in Washington for meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN JAFFE/IMF, VIA REUTERS) (pg.B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); INTERBANK LENDING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); APPROVALS (74%); RECESSION (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (64%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); DENMARK (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



536 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: It's in the Bag -- the Tea Bag, That Is

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Remember when tea growers used to urge coffee-centric consumers to ''Take tea and see''? Years later, it is difficult to see which tea to buy when visiting the beverage aisles in stores, stuffed as they are with all manner of teas: black, green, white, mass-market, premium-priced, private-label, gourmet, herbal, flavored, natural, organic and so on.
 Even gum makers are getting into the act. The trade publication Brandweek reported last week that Perfetti Van Melle USA will introduce Mentos Pure Fresh gum with ''green tea extract that kills the bacteria that causes bad breath.''
 Hmmmm. Take tea and breathe? 
 To stand out among the wave of teas, a leading brand of tea bags, Salada, sold by Redco Foods, is starting a campaign that promotes brewing tea rather than buying it in bottles. The campaign, by an agency in Syracuse, N.Y., named the Pinckney Hugo Group, urges tea drinkers to ''Unbottle your tea.''
 The campaign, which echoes the old ''Uncola'' campaign for 7Up, is centered on a microsite, or special Web site, for Salada Green Tea (unbottleyourtea.com). Visitors can read about the benefits of brewing tea, play games, enter sweepstakes, download coupons and sign up to receive free water bottles in which to tote around their brewed tea.
 There are also recipes, a ''tell a friend'' feature and a link to the regular Web site for Salada Green Tea (greentea.com).
 Information about the campaign is being added to print ads for Salada Green Tea, which present the product as part of a healthy life style. And there is a public relations effort for the ''Unbottle'' initiative. 
 The campaign, which began last month, has a budget estimated at $200,000 through the end of March. More is likely to be spent in the coming Redco fiscal year, which starts on April 1, 2009.
 The campaign makes the case for freshly brewed tea on several fronts, declaring it to be less expensive, better for the environment and more healthful. That ties in with three hot trends in marketing, summarized on the Web site as ''good for your wallet,'' ''good for the planet'' and ''good for you.''
 Work on the campaign began almost a year ago, says Michele Peters, brand manager at Redco in Windsor, Conn., a unit of the Teekanne Group, a German tea company.
 In addition to Salada tea bags, in green and black varieties, Redco also sells tea-bag brands like Red Rose and Teekanne Herbal Wellness Tea as well as venerable products like Junket Rennet Custard, which Ms. Peters calls ''the most nostalgic brand in the universe.''
 The market for tea bags is ''intensely competitive,'' Ms. Peters says. Other brands include Bigelow, Brooke Bond, Celestial Seasonings, Constant Comment, Lipton, Luzianne, Nestea, Tetley and Twinings.
 ''That makes it a little bit difficult,'' she adds, ''but that also makes it fun.''
 Research that Redco conducted in the last year revealed that there was a large potential market for Salada among women aged 25 to 35, Ms. Peters says, who would help the brand to broaden its demographic appeal from its present core of women who are 45 and older.
 But those younger women ''drink tea in bottles,'' she adds, rather than brewing it fresh from tea bags, which gave birth to the idea of promoting tea outside the box -- er, bottle.
 ''The first thing we thought about was the health aspect,'' Ms. Peters says, referring to data showing that freshly brewed Salada Green Tea has more than double the levels of an antioxidant, EGCG, than bottled teas.
 And freshly brewed green tea has no calories, she adds, compared with the calorie-laden contents of bottles of sweetened tea. (Unsweetened tea in bottles is, of course, calorie-free, too.)
 Then there is ''the environmental aspect,'' Ms. Peters says, which is addressed on the Web site with information about the billions of plastic bottles that are not recycled each year.
 The Web site also calls for support of a bill before Congress, the Bottle Recycling Climate Protection Act, which would levy a 5-cent deposit nationally on beverage containers, including bottled teas and waters.
 In recent months, ''the economic conditions everyone's feeling'' led to a decision that the campaign would also play up ''how much cheaper it is to make your own tea,'' Ms. Peters says, rather than buying bottled tea.
 According to information provided by Pinckney Hugo as part of the campaign, a 16-ounce serving of green tea made from Salada tea bags costs about 36 cents, in contrast to about $1.60 for the same amount of tea in a bottle.
 The market for bottled teas continues to grow, says Aaron Hugo, partner at Pinckney Hugo, primarily because of ''the convenience factor.''
 ''It's easy to grab a bottle and take it to work, take it to the gym,'' he adds, ''but if you buy a couple bottles a week versus box tea, you're talking about a huge cost saving'' by switching to tea bags, ''especially in this economy.''
 That, along with the health and ecology issues, led to the concept of ''an educational campaign,'' Mr. Hugo says, ''that would say, 'It's great you're drinking tea, but from a health, cost and environmental standpoint you should be drinking freshly brewed tea. ''' 
 ''The biggest challenge is to get across, especially to younger drinkers, that it does not take a long time to make brewed tea,'' he adds. ''You make some hot water and brew some tea.'' The campaign is ''another way to reintroduce a brand a lot of people are aware of,'' Mr. Hugo says, ''but haven't engaged with for a while.''
 ''Obviously, it's a fractured category,'' he adds, referring to the tea-bag market. ''You walk up to a store shelf and it seems there are a thousand boxes staring at you.''
 That Salada ''has been in green tea from Day 1,'' Mr. Hugo says, will help the brand deliver the pitch to switch to tea bags from bottles.
 ----------- 
 Correction: The Campaign Spotlight last week, about a promotion for a bank in South Carolina, Countybank, which is centered on giving away biscuits, misquoted a remark by Bill Jenkins, the marketing director at Countybank. He said, ''The ham biscuit is a habitual breakfast food here,'' not ''The hand biscuit.''
 (Sorry, readers. To someone who grew up in Brooklyn, ''hand biscuit'' sounded perfectly reasonable.)
 ----------
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA (91%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (89%); BRANDING (88%); TEA MARKETS (78%); TEA FARMING (78%); PRIVATE LABELS (77%); TRENDS (75%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); SWEEPSTAKES (68%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (66%); WEB SITES (66%); BACTERIA (55%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



537 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
The Advertising Research Foundation, New York, will add a multicultural category to its annual David Ogilvy Awards, for excellence in advertising research, effective with the 2009 competition. The category is being added to mark the 15th anniversary of the awards. The deadline for submissions is Dec. 16 and the 2009 awards will be presented on March 31.
 Angels Advertising, Talinn, Estonia, is joining ICOM, a network of independent agencies, and will become part of the organization's Europe, Middle East and Asia region.
 Todd Brandes joined Digital Kitchen, Chicago, as director for business and production strategy. He had most recently been director for global advertising and content at the Motorola Mobile Devices unit of Motorola, Schaumburg, Ill. 
 Nate Christman joined TM Advertising, Dallas, as an art director, to work with Ryan Durr, a copywriter, primarily on the Nationwide Insurance account. Mr. Christman had been an art director at Fallon Worldwide, Minneapolis, part of the SSF Group unit of the Publicis Groupe. TM is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Christopher Compton joined Yardbarker Network, San Francisco, as senior director for West Coast sales, a new post. He had been senior director for business development at Real Branding, San Francisco. 
 Amy Goyer joined Grandparents.com, New York, as senior vice president for outreach, a new post. She had been national coordinator for the grandparenting program at the AARP Foundation, Washington.
 Paul A. Haney joined Englander & Associates, Los Angeles, as a partner, effective next month. He had been deputy executive director for Los Angeles World Airports, which owns and operates airports that include Los Angeles International Airport.
 Chris Henderson rejoined Olson, Minneapolis, in a new post, as a creative director with what the agency calls a hybrid role, working on tasks like digital accounts and business development. He had worked in Minneapolis for BBDO Proximity, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, and Colle & McVoy, part of MDC Partners.
 Jason Hill and Michael Murray, a creative team, returned to Zig, Toronto, after working at Taxi, Toronto. Mr. Hill is an art director and Mr. Murray is a copywriter; they will also be associate creative directors. 
 Matt Howell and Michael Tabtabai joined Modernista, Boston, in interactive posts. Mr. Howell becomes director for interactive production; he has worked for digital agencies like Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe, and R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Mr. Tabtabai becomes interactive associate creative director; he had been interactive art director at the Boulder, Colo., office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners.
 Matt Jarvis joined 72 and Sunny, El Segundo, Calif., as managing director and chief strategy officer, overseeing the El Segundo and Amsterdam offices. He had been executive vice president and director for account planning at Deutsch L.A. -- the office of Deutsch, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, located in the Marina del Rey section of Los Angeles. Mr. Jarvis assumes duties from Greg Perlot, a founder of the agency, who left to join a client, Quiksilver, as senior vice president for marketing.
 Mike Lake, chairman for the United States Southwest region at Burson-Marsteller, based in Dallas, was named to an added post, chairman for the United States public affairs practice. He succeeds James C. Lake, who left to join Gibraltar Associates, Washington, as partner and president. Burson-Marsteller is part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of the WPP Group.
 LifeLock, Tempe, Ariz., which offers members protection against identity theft, chose Images USA, Atlanta, as the first agency of record for multicultural advertising. Spending has not been determined.
 Jim Nash, managing partner at Marcus Thomas, Cleveland, was elected president of the Magnet Global Network, an association of independent agencies. Mr. Nash, who will serve a two-year term, succeeds Jim Copacino, president at Copacino & Fujikado, Seattle.
 Nike, Beaverton, Ore., selected the San Francisco office of Agency.com, part of the Omnicom Group, to work on digital initiatives to generate traffic for the Web sites for Nike iD (nikeid.com) and the Nike Store units (nikestore.com). The assignment had been handled by Range Online Media, Fort Worth. Spending was not disclosed. 
 Pamela Raley joined Newsweek magazine, New York, part of the Washington Post Company, as chief revenue officer, a new post. She had been vice president for advertising sales and marketing at Hearst Digital Media, New York, a unit of the Hearst Corporation.
 Justin Smith joined Doner, Southfield, Mich., in a new post, as executive vice president and executive creative director for interactive. He had most recently been vice president for interactive media at the San Francisco office of Attik, part of Dentsu.
 Laura Spaugh joined the Atlanta office of Nurun, part of Quebecor Media, as director for client services. She had been account director at the Atlanta office of Avenue A/Razorfish, part of the aQuantive division of the Microsoft Corporation.
 Gary W. Steele joined Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners unit of Havas, as managing partner and executive director to oversee the agency's McDonald's account, handling assignments for 15 co-operatives that operate more than 2,500 restaurants. He will at some point succeed Tom Lawson, managing partner, who has long supervised the McDonald's account; after that, Mr. Lawson is to stay with Arnold in a senior management post. Mr. Steele had most recently been the global transition manager for the Dell account at Enfatico, an agency recently started by the WPP Group, and before that spent 18 years working on local and national marketing for Wendy's International at two agencies, Bates and McCann Erickson Worldwide.
 Lynn Thomlison, creative director at Virilion, which has offices in Austin, Tex.; Boston; and Washington, will lead a new office in New York. Three designers are also joining the agency: Elyse Gaumer, art director, and two senior designers, Krasimir Galabov and Filiz Sahin.
 Skip Thurnauer joined AbelsonTaylor, Chicago, as senior account supervisor. He had been managing director and director for client services at the Chicago office of Euro RSCG Life, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide division of Havas.
 Travel Ad Network, New York, hired three employees for new posts. Sara Eader becomes a publisher account manager; she had been an affiliate network account coordinator at the Chicago office of Google. Andrew Podella becomes business development manager; he had been channel manager at Tacoda, New York. And Abigail Lane Whitmer becomes an account manager; she had also been at the Google Chicago office as an affiliate network account coordinator. 
 Mark Updegrove joined Rawle Murdy, Charleston, S.C., as director for business development, a new post. He had held posts that included president for Time Canada, part of the Time Inc. division of Time Warner; and vice president for sales and operations at the Yahoo Canada unit of Yahoo. 
 Anne Sempowski Ward, president and chief operating officer at the Fashion Fair Cosmetics unit of the Johnson Publishing Company, Chicago, was named president and chief operating officer at Johnson Publishing. She assumes duties from Linda Johnson Rice, who continues as chairwoman and chief executive.
 Shannon Webber joined Elias/Savion Advertising, Pittsburgh, as public relations manager. She had been marketing and communications projects manager at UPMC Health Plan, Pittsburgh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); AIRPORT OPERATION (75%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (71%); AIRPORTS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (57%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (86%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (85%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (61%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); NATIONWIDE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO (56%); FALLON WORLDWIDE (56%); MDC PARTNERS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ADVERTISING RESEARCH FOUNDATION (91%); AARP INC (54%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (86%); PUB (PAR) (85%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); MDZ.A (TSX) (53%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (86%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (86%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (86%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (72%); MIDDLE EAST (72%); EUROPE (72%); ESTONIA (72%); ASIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



538 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Missteps Are Evident, But Europe Is Implicated

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
A week ago, European leaders said they knew who was responsible for the global credit crisis. 
 Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's prime minister, blamed a ''capitalism of adventurers'' in the United States, a group that encompassed risk-taking investment bankers and home buyers who borrowed more than they could afford. The British prime minister, Gordon Brown, pointedly noted that the crisis had ''come from America.''
 But now, after problems at European banks helped set off a global stock market rout and a 20 percent plunge on Wall Street last week, experts say lenders here all too willingly embraced many of the riskiest practices of their American counterparts, bulking up on risky debt and relying on short-term loans, rather than deposits, to finance their operations.
 Indeed, even while European leaders continued to point fingers at the United States as they completed their own rescue efforts Sunday, analysts predicted that the eventual cost of the bailout on this side of the Atlantic could soon rival that of the $700 billion American plan. 
 And that pain won't be Europe's alone, as the turmoil here continues to reverberate through the world's stock markets and make a global recession look more and more likely. 
 ''The same mechanisms that led to the crisis in the United States were operating here,'' said Arnoud Boot, a professor of finance and banking at the University of Amsterdam. ''It's totally misplaced for European leaders to put the blame on the Americans.''
 While the deposit guarantees and capital injections deployed in Britain and Ireland and across the Continent from France and Belgium all the way to Greece might allay the immediate panic, these steps will not necessarily free up credit for European businesses already hard hit by the global economic slowdown.
 In fact, an ocean of short-term debt issued by European banks is set to come due over the next two quarters, with $375 billion maturing in the fourth quarter of 2008 and another $339 billion needing to be refinanced in the first quarter of 2009. 
 ''If the banks do not manage to roll over this debt, we may witness balance sheet contraction with major negative implications for the real economy or more bank failures,'' said Vasco Moreno, who tracks European banks for Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, a research firm specializing in financial institutions.
 The American subprime loan crisis may have been the trigger, Mr. Boot said, but dangers like too much leverage, too little oversight and an executive-bonus culture that encouraged risk-taking had been building for years in Europe, just as in the United States.
 By some measures, in fact, European banks exposed themselves to even higher levels of debt than American banks did. And the after-effects are likely to be felt for years, potentially reducing European demand for American exports, a rare bright spot for domestic companies until recently.
 European institutions do not directly face the kind of bad mortgages that brought down Wachovia and Washington Mutual, because local lending standards here never fell as far as they did in the United States. But their own heavy borrowing has made European banks vulnerable now that easy credit is a thing of the past and plunging stock prices make it harder to raise money.
 ''The market is really efficient in identifying the weakest players in the industry here in Europe,'' said Christophe Ricetti, a banking analyst with Natixis. 
 A glaring example is Hypo Real Estate, Germany's second largest commercial real estate lender, whose loans exceeded its deposit base by more than eight times. 
 Less than 24 hours after Mr. Berlusconi and Mr. Brown blamed the United States about a week ago for the crisis and offered assurances about Europe's relative stability, Hypo's near collapse forced Germany to hastily guarantee all consumer deposits and mount a $67 billion rescue effort to save the stricken bank. 
 Several days later, British authorities would unveil a $255 billion plan to shore up its own shaky banking system.
 Other banks that overreached include the Royal Bank of Scotland and Fortis, a Dutch-Belgian lender, which last year took on huge debt to finance a $100 billion takeover of rival ABN Amro -- a deal that had the bad timing to coincide with the market's peak.
 Late Sunday night, the British government appeared poised to take a majority ownership stake in the Royal Bank of Scotland, while Fortis has already been taken over and broken up by the Dutch and Belgian governments.
 ''The high leverage could have been sustainable if the risks were kept under better control,'' Mr. Boot said, ''but clearly, supervision was insufficient.'' 
 In Ireland, loans at the biggest banks also far outpaced deposits. That led the Irish government to issue a blanket guarantee on private savings accounts on Sept. 30, a move that set off criticism by other European governments -- until they found themselves forced to follow suit. 
 Despite having to take drastic action close to home, in recent days European leaders have continued to focus on the American role in the global economic debacle, especially the decision last month by Federal Reserve and Treasury Department officials to let Lehman Brothers collapse. 
 ''For the equilibrium of the world financial system, this was a genuine error,'' Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, said last week.
 And on Sunday, after a conference of European leaders at the Elysee Palace here aimed at easing the panic, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France returned to this theme. 
 ''This crisis was not born in Europe,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. ''This crisis was born in America. It is now a global crisis.''
 But according to one commonly used yardstick to measure borrowing -- the ratio of assets to equity -- European banks employed more than twice as much leverage as their American counterparts, Mr. Moreno, the analyst, said. 
 ''The banks have a large amount of debt to roll over until the end of 2009,'' he said. 
 To be sure, not all European institutions indulged in risky borrowing and lending, Richard Portes, professor of economics at London Business School, said. Despite a rapidly deflating housing bubble in Ireland, Spain and Britain, the French bank BNP Paribas, Santander of Spain and Britain's HSBC have emerged largely unscathed, he noted. 
 Even as excessive debt emerges as the most pressing concern, the decision by other European institutions to wade into the market for complicated, mortgage-backed American securities and other derivatives overhangs the system.
 UBS, the Swiss giant, for example, bought tens of billions of dollars in American subprime debt in a bid for higher yields, only to find out too late that it was toxic, generating huge losses at UBS over the last year.
 And after Fortis was divided up earlier this month, with the Dutch government nationalizing local operations, and Belgian authorities selling most of the remainder to BNP Paribas, experts found that it owned more than 10 billion euros worth of toxic, illiquid securities.
 As part of the deal worked out by Belgian authorities, those mostly American asset-backed securities have been placed in a separate ''ring-fenced'' entity, meant to quarantine them from more valuable holdings. As part of the deal, Belgian taxpayers got stuck with nearly a quarter of this hard-to-sell portfolio.
 At Dexia, a French-Belgian lender to municipalities that was saved by a government-led $9.2 billion capital injection in September, the difficulties can also be traced to a similar mix of hazardous American securities and European mishandling of them. 
 In 2000, Dexia entered the fast-growing market for municipal bond insurance in the United States, acquiring Financial Security Assurance. To lift profits, the unit relied on credit default swaps and other now beaten-down derivatives, ultimately draining Dexia's capital and forcing the recent government intervention.
 ''Using credit-default swaps was cheaper, but it was opaque and the board of Dexia couldn't follow all that,'' said one government official who was involved in the rescue. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss internal matters.
 Officials from Dexia and Fortis declined to comment.
 Even worse, added this official, oversight of Dexia was split between Paris and Brussels. French regulators oversaw the unit of the company that included Financial Security Assurance, while Belgian authorities were responsible for monitoring the entire company.
 ''Nobody understood it,'' the government official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (51%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (73%); GORDON BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ITALY (92%); GREECE (79%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); IRELAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



539 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: Bold Pledges From World Leaders, but Investors Await the Details

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and KATRIN BENNHOLD; Mark Landler reported from Washington and Katrin Bennhold from Paris. David Jolly contributed reporting from Paris and Vikas Bajaj from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After a whirl of emergency meetings, government leaders on both sides of the Atlantic made bold promises to rescue the global financial system, but were still racing to work out the details to calm battered stock markets before they opened on Monday morning.
 In the wake of the carnage in last week's markets, European countries pledged to inject capital into ailing banks and guarantee some forms of bank debt, a step analysts said was critical to restoring lending between banks and easing a crisis of confidence.
 Europe's action throws the spotlight back to the United States, where officials said Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. was studying the feasibility of backing up loans between banks here. Lending between banks is considered crucial to the smooth operation of the financial system and the broader economy, but it has slowed considerably because banks are concerned about being repaid should the other bank run into financial trouble. 
 The Treasury was not expected to announce anything before Monday, officials said. But the government was helping an American financial giant, Morgan Stanley, in its effort to salvage a $9 billion investment by a Japanese bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial. 
 The initial reaction of investors was positive, with stocks up in several Asian markets and stock futures in the United States -- which are bets on the direction of the market before its opening -- higher as well. The early signs, after one of the worst weeks ever for stock markets, are not a definitive shift in sentiment but were seen as a potential hope that the markets may at least stop their free fall.
 ''It's going to take actions more than words at this time, given the extreme distress that the money markets are in and the extreme distress that the equity markets were in,'' said Douglas Peta, a market strategist at J.& W. Seligman & Company. He predicted further drops in the stock and bond markets; the Dow Jones industrial average fell 18 percent last week.
 But there were some significant steps. In Paris, European leaders agreed to a unified plan that would inject billions of euros into their banks and guarantee bank debt for periods up to five years. President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who led the talks in the 18th-century Elysee Palace, said governments would announce concrete rescue plans tailored to their national circumstances on Monday simultaneously.
 ''We need concrete measures, we need unity,'' Mr. Sarkozy declared. ''That's what we achieved today.''
 Leaders of the 15 countries that use the euro did not put a price tag on any of their promises -- contrary to Britain, where last week Prime Minister Gordon Brown announced $255 billion in government funds and other measures to stabilize its banks, or the United States, where a $700 billion bailout plan will now be used partly to infuse banks with fresh capital.
 The United States is overhauling its rescue package, which had originally focused on buying distressed assets from banks. Mr. Paulson said on Friday the government would now take equity stakes in banks; the government's role in the Morgan Stanley negotiations may be an early test of the Treasury's retooled strategy.
 The government has so far been reluctant to guarantee bank loans to other banks out of concern that it could give banks a competitive advantage over other financial institutions, and thus have unintended consequences.
 Max Bublitz, chief strategist at SCM Advisors in San Francisco, said the United States should follow the lead of the Europeans, whom he said were proving to be more adroit in their response. Markets, he said, will remain unsettled until policy makers take concrete steps to shore up banks.
 ''We still need to see some of these capital injections actually occurring and see what impact it has on balance sheets, and does it attract other capital from sovereign wealth funds and others,'' Mr. Bublitz said.
 Europe may have acted quicker in large part because banks there are facing urgent problems, said Tobias Levkovich, chief equity strategist at Citigroup. Many European financial firms have borrowed more extensively relative to their capital than most American banks.
 ''The Europeans were sitting with a much closer foot to the fire than we were,'' he said. ''I don't think they could sit around and wait a week or two.''
 Still, the actions taken by European leaders could aid the United States in an indirect way by helping to lower a critical interest rate, said Douglas A. Dachille, chief executive of First Principles Capital Management, an investment firm that specializes in bonds. 
 A daily poll of mostly European banks sets the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which is used as a benchmark to set borrowing costs for corporate and consumer loans. In recent weeks, the Libor has shot up as banks have become increasingly unwilling to lend to each other. 
 Banks and investors have severely restricted lending to each other because their capacity to do so has been limited by losses that they have suffered and because they are fearful they may not be paid back. 
 ''One of the big themes that people have been worried about is Libor,'' Mr. Dachille said. ''If they can do something that might have positive consequences in bringing Libor down, the U.S. would benefit.''
 For Europeans, the agreement represented a sharp reversal from two weeks ago, when Germany and other countries played down the need for a concerted response to what some characterized as an American problem.
 ''We are committed in all European states to recapitalize banks if we establish a threat to solvency and a risk to the economy,'' the Belgian finance minister, Didier Reynders, said after the leaders met. ''The goal is to kick-start the interbank lending market.''
 Mr. Reynders said the European Central Bank had also committed to helping to restore trading in the commercial paper market, where companies conduct short-term borrowing. The United States also has agreed to guarantee commercial paper loans in an effort to unfreeze that market.
 Officials said action would be taken at the national level, within the framework of a ''toolbox.'' The idea, they said, is that governments face different challenges and need to act quickly in the face of a crisis and that a common front will avoid the danger that one country may undercut another.
 But Mr. Reynders dismissed the possibility of a common European fund for the banks. Germany had opposed the idea because it feared it would end up bailing out banks in other countries.
 ''Our goal is to have coordinated action for the euro zone,'' said Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, and the meeting ''is a very important signal for the strength of the euro zone.''
 Officials said France and Germany intended to announce national plans on Monday worth hundreds of billions of euros.
 Earlier Sunday, the authorities in Australia and New Zealand announced a blanket guarantee of bank deposits. Australia's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, called the financial turmoil ''the economic equivalent of a national security crisis'' because of the danger that funds would flee Sydney's banks for countries where governments had guaranteed deposits. Australian stocks were up more than 3 percent on Monday morning.
 ''I don't want a first-class Australian bank discriminated against because some other foreign bank, which has a bad balance sheet, is being propped up by a guarantee by a foreign government,'' Reuters quoted Mr. Rudd as saying.
 While the government initiatives agreed to over the weekend are aimed at reassuring the financial markets, some economists fear that the patchwork nature of some of the measures could fuel further instability by tempting investors to move capital around to take advantage of those countries perceived as the safest havens.
 ''If you build a nice, comfortable ark for the banks, the question is, 'Who doesn't get a seat?' '' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. ''The answer is the emerging markets.''
 American officials say they are concerned about this, and sought to assure emerging market countries at a meeting of the Group of 20 countries on Saturday that they did not want to undermine their economies.
 ''We are not pursuing policies that would limit the flow of goods, services or capital, as such measures would only intensify the risks of a prolonged crisis,'' Mr. Paulson said to a meeting of the International Monetary Fund.
 In Britain, the first major country to announce a recapitalization plan, officials appeared to be speeding plans to inject capital into its troubled banks. At the top of the list is the Royal Bank of Scotland, whose market value fell to below $20 billion, less than what it raised from private investors in June.
 It is expected to need about that amount from the government, which would give a majority stake to the Exchequer, the British equivalent of the United States Treasury.
 In Washington, where bankers and policy makers wrapped up a weekend of meetings, there was bitter recrimination about the Treasury's decision to let Lehman Brothers fail -- a move that many blamed for helping the crisis of confidence spread globally. 
 ''Quite recently, we saw early signs of a revival of market stability and then, with the unexpected failure of Lehman Brothers, we saw a precipitous unraveling,'' said Josef Ackermann, the chief executive of Deutsche Bank, at a meeting of the Institute of International Finance, which he heads.
 Bankers said they were surprised that the finance ministers had not each met with the major bankers from their countries to make clear that they were expected to lend to other banks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nicolas Sarkozy, left, Jose-Manuel Barroso of the European Commission and Jean-Claude Trichet of the central bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE WOJAZER/REUTERS) (pg.A1)
From left, Jean-Claude Trichet of the central bank, Gordon Brown of Britain, Jose-Manuel Barroso of the European Commission, Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Jean-Claude Juncker of the Eurogroup. (POOL PHOTO BY PHILIPPE WOJAZER)
 Robert B. Zoellick, left, president of the World Bank, with Dominique Strauss-Kahn, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, at a news conference in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN JAFFE/IMF, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FUTURES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BONDS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); BOND MARKETS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); EURO (68%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (64%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); AMP (NYSE) (64%); MS (NYSE) (58%); MTU (NYSE) (55%); 8306 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (87%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (83%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (71%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (60%); GORDON BROWN (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (67%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



540 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: A Potential Merger Weighs on Detroit

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The Motor City spent the weekend considering the once-unthinkable prospect that its traditional Big Three automakers might shrink to the Big Two.
 The merger talks between General Motors and Chrysler, first revealed on Friday, are yet another gut-punch to a city reeling from a mayoral scandal, soaring foreclosure and unemployment rates and huge losses in its hometown auto industry.
 ''Detroit was a symbol of the great American industrial machine, and those days are long gone,'' said Kevin Boyle, a historian who has written extensively about his native city. ''It just weighs you down living in a place that seems to get hit again and again and again.'' 
 Many industry experts say that little is to be gained by merging G.M., which has lost more than $18 billion this year, and Chrysler, whose sales have fallen farther than any other automaker since it was acquired last year by the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management. 
 G.M.'s revenues and profits have been decimated by a sharp decline in sales of its trucks and big sport utility vehicles. Consumers are demanding smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, but Chrysler's most popular products are Ram pickups, minivans and Jeep S.U.V.'s.
 Moreover, industry analysts say G.M. should focus on shrinking to a size that is more in sync with the market by reducing its overlapping lineup of brands, bloated dealer network, and shifting its products to fit better with the times.
 ''On the surface, it just doesn't make any sense,'' said Erich Merkle, an auto industry analyst with the accounting firm Crowe Horwath in Grand Rapids, Mich. ''General Motors needs fewer brands, not more. They need fewer dealerships, not more. And the product lines don't complement each other.''
 Despite all the obvious criticisms of the merger, the troubled companies are running out of options, and the status quo may not be among them.
 G.M. and Chrysler, along with the Ford Motor Company, have been battered by a weak economy, rising gas prices, a sharp shift by consumers away from their most profitable products, and a credit crisis that has emptied dealer showrooms.
 With all three automakers burning through billions of dollars in cash, analysts are increasingly skeptical they can avoid bankruptcy before the American auto market recovers.
 ''Detroit right now is the proverbial falling knife you are trying to grab,'' said John Casesa, a principal in consulting firm Casesa Shapiro Group in New York. ''It has passed the threshold of a crisis.''
 For G.M., a merger, for all the pitfalls, offers a way to increase its sales, add cash to its coffers, and save money by sharing operations and costs with a partner.
 G.M. first approach Ford in July about a merger, but the overtures were rejected last month, according to people with knowledge of the talks.
 Then, G.M. turned its focus to Chrysler, the smallest of the three and bought by Cerberus last year from the German automaker Daimler AG.
 Talks between G.M. and Cerberus began about a month ago, but are still in the preliminary stages, according to people close to the discussions.
 The principal driver of G.M.'s interest in pursuing a merger is its president, Frederick A. Henderson, according to people familiar with deliberations inside G.M. Mr. Henderson is the automaker's former chief financial officer and onetime head of its operations in Europe, Asia and South America.
 Mr. Henderson has told other G.M. officials the company needs a broader revenue base and new sources of cash to survive.
 Despite its recent woes, Chrysler still has an 11 percent share of the United States market that, added to G.M.'s current 22.4 percent share, would put it far in front of Toyota, with which it has been battling for leadership in terms of market share. 
 Because it is privately owned, Chrysler does not report financial results. In August, however, Cerberus said that the automaker had $11 billion in cash.
 That cash hoard could be a big lure for G.M., which had $21 billion in cash on hand at the end of the second quarter, but is burning through an estimated $1 billion of it each month.
 ''The only way the deal makes sense is if there's some cash involved, because that's what G.M. needs,'' said Mr. Merkle.
 People close to the G.M.-Chrysler talks have handicapped the chances of a deal at 50-50. Yet there appear to be pressing reasons for Cerberus to make a deal. 
 Cerberus's chairman, Stephen A. Feinberg, has come under intense pressure from Wall Street bankers to jettison Chrysler, according to people with knowledge of the situation.
 A consortium of banks, led by JPMorgan Chase, was forced last year to lend Chrysler $10 billion because the debt could not be sold to credit-wary investors. 
 In addition, Chrysler has not been able to slash costs fast enough to balance out its 25 percent decline in sales in the United States this year. The automaker also needs money to reinvigorate its truck-heavy product lineup.
 Cerberus is also talking to other automakers, notably the Nissan Motor Company of Japan, about possible deals involving Chrysler, according to people close to the discussions.
 Aside from core issues like price and other financial terms, a G.M.-Chrysler deal also hinges on the amount of cost savings a merger could yield.
 G.M. has a task force studying possible synergies between the two automakers, according to one person with knowledge of the team's existence.
 The biggest savings would likely come where they usually do in a merger -- the elimination of jobs. And many of those cuts would come in Detroit and the rest of southeastern Michigan, where both G.M. and Chrysler have already slashed tens of thousands of workers from their payrolls.
 More job losses would be another bitter blow in Motown. Since news of the exploratory discussions surfaced, the talk of Detroit has centered on how tough a merger would be on an already-beleaguered economy.
 ''Even since last year, nobody would have imagined how bad things would be now,'' said Mr. Boyle. ''It's just mind boggling.''
 Still, many Detroiters believe it would be better for G.M. to swallow Chrysler before an outsider. 
 ''Should this happen, look for a lot of bloodshed,'' wrote one person who posted a comment on a local Web site called DetroitYes.com. ''However, it is better than another alternative -- a Chinese company buys up Chrysler.''
 It is just another measure of the impact of the old Big Three on a city that once symbolized the manufacturing muscle for the nation.
 ''Ten years ago, Detroit was under intense pressure, but it always had access to money to borrow in the market,'' said Mr. Casesa. ''Well, that's just not true anymore. In this case, being poor has taken Detroit's swagger away.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Headquarters of General Motors, left, in Detroit, and of Chrysler in Auburn Hills, Mich. The automakers may merge. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES
REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) (pg.B1)
 Frederick A. Henderson, president of General Motors, urged merger talks with its rival Chrysler. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAL PILLAI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETY IMAGES) (pg.B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MERGERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); HISTORY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (57%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); CROWE HORWATH INTERNATIONAL (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



541 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Stock Slump Imperils Putin's Effort to Pump Up Russian Wealth, and His Legacy

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
The stock market here has swooned so often in recent weeks that regulators have repeatedly shut it down, as if Russia, which aspires to be a financial powerhouse, has become just another bumbling backwater. The oligarchs, those Kremlin-connected magnates who once dazzled the world with their riches, are reeling. And Vladimir V. Putin is facing a threat to his legacy of bringing growth, stability and a renewed swagger to this nation.
 The global financial crisis has not spared Russia, wiping out roughly a trillion dollars in wealth and forcing the government to adopt a broad rescue plan to shore up banks. At stake is the country's robust economy over much of the last decade, which has for the first time given many Russians a taste of comforts long enjoyed in the West.
 For now, the damage has been largely limited to the Russian elite. While Russia's stock market has plummeted by about two-thirds since May, more than those in the United States and Western Europe, the country has not yet developed a broad investor class, and most people have not squirreled away their savings in the market. 
 As a result, though the stock market here had soared to $1.5 trillion in value, making it one of the world's biggest, it had a very narrow base of investors. It was dominated by foreign and Russian investment funds, which sprinted for the exit when things started turning bad.
 The Kremlin has also sought to contain the fallout from the crisis by having the major Russian television networks, which it controls, play down or even ignore the stock market collapse here. The network news programs have instead focused on financial troubles in the United States and Europe.
 Still, the Russian stock market declines seem to be signaling investors' pessimism over the future of the economy and the government's stewardship of it. Even as Russia has experienced strong growth in recent years, driven by oil and gas revenue, it has not achieved gains in diversifying its economy. Nor has it had significant success in modernizing decrepit roadways, power grids and housing.
 Russia's invasion of neighboring Georgia, the perception that the Kremlin has meddled in the affairs of large companies and pervasive corruption have deepened investor concern. These issues may help explain why Russia's stock market has declined more than those in other emerging economies like Brazil's.
 Russia has run budget surpluses in recent years, putting $190 billion in contingency funds. The fear seems to be that this money will provide only a short-term cushion.
 ''The market drop has revealed one of the basic flaws in the Russian economy,'' said Christopher Weafer, chief strategist at Uralsib Bank in Moscow. ''Over the last eight years, they have gotten $1.3 trillion in oil and gas revenues, but that money has not been able to bring up the country's infrastructure. The bureaucracy and red tape and corruption are all lagging. This is a big problem for the market.''
 Moreover, while average Russians have so far been insulated from the anxiety of Americans who have watched their retirement plans shrivel, they could begin feeling pain soon. Major Russian companies -- including Gazprom, the gas monopoly, and others controlled by the government -- have lost large chunks of value, which could force them to cut employment and spending.
 Another danger is the drop in the price of oil, gas, metals and other natural resources, which form the base for Russia's economy. If the financial crisis causes a sustained recession in the West, depressing demand for these commodities, government and industry in Russia could suffer a sharp decline in revenue.
 The price of oil closed at $78 a barrel on Friday, only slightly above the level that the Kremlin has factored to maintain its current spending. If prices go much lower, the federal budget will run a deficit, officials said.
 ''It will take some time to be felt on Main Street in Russia,'' said Edward Parker, an analyst at Fitch Ratings, the bond rating firm. ''We are seeing the failure of some companies and banks. We will see an increase in unemployment and gradually see a reduction in wages. With falling oil prices, Russia's terms of trade are now moving against it. It will take some time, but it certainly will be felt.''
 It is already being felt by Russia's oligarchs, the Kremlin allies who control large portions of the economy. One of Russia's richest men, the metals tycoon Oleg V. Deripaska, said to be worth more than $20 billion before the crisis, has absorbed such steep losses that his associates have been obliged to give assurances that he is not sinking under debt.
 The Kremlin has announced several plans to support the economy using its reserves, and last week, Mr. Putin, the former president and current prime minister, tried to project an image of calm, if not nonchalance. A judo expert, he released an instructional judo DVD in which he stars, and he was later shown on Russian television receiving a tiger cub for his 56th birthday.
 He also seemed to take satisfaction in the economic distress in the United States.
 ''You are right in that confidence in the United States as leader of the free world and the free market, the trust in Wall Street as the center of this confidence, has been undermined -- for good, I think,'' he told members of Parliament from the Communist Party.
 Mr. Putin and his protege, President Dmitri A. Medvedev, remain popular, in part because the stock market plunge has not yet touched most of the population. In 1998, when the government defaulted on its debt and devalued the ruble during the last major economic crisis here, things were far different, as many Russians lost their life savings.
 The Kremlin's popularity has also risen because of Russia's victory in the conflict in Georgia in August. Yet analysts said that over time, if the current crisis spreads and economic growth turns anemic, Mr. Putin's leadership could be called into question.
 ''The Russian population had gotten used to the fact that life was getting better, perhaps not as quickly as Russians thought they deserved, but getting better,'' said Boris Makarenko of the Center for Political Technologies, a nonpartisan consulting group in Moscow.
 ''All that was the foundation for a very positive attitude of Russians toward the Kremlin, and optimistic behavior in general,'' he said. ''The long-term effects will erode this support somewhat. But it is not like in the United States, where the financial crisis reinvented the presidential campaign.''
 Even so, the Kremlin seems to be trying to forestall a public backlash by curbing news of the Russian stock market on the television networks.
 One morning last week, regulators, worried about another plunge, closed the market. On the main television news at noon, the anchor described ''a new drop in world stock markets,'' discussing declines in Japan and Europe that he called a reaction to losses the day before in New York.
 Only at the end of the segment did the anchor mention in passing that the Russian market was not even open, without saying why.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia during a meeting with Russia's Communist Party on Thursday. He told his audience that it was best not to have too much confidence in Wall Street. (POOL PHOTO BY ALEXEI NIKOLSKY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



542 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: History and the Really Very Weird

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: PECULIAR, Mo. 

 BODY:
 Back when he was vice president, Dan Quayle noted that: ''People that are really very weird can get into sensitive positions and have a tremendous impact on history.''
 He was right, as the Germans know, even if his own impact was limited by the fact the president he was understudying for stayed alive.
 Quayle's words came back to me because, like a lot Americans, I've come down with Palinitis: the acute fear that Sarah Palin might get into one of those ''sensitive positions.'' 
 This is no ordinary moment. More than two trillion dollars have disappeared from Americans' retirement accounts. The hedge-fund high priests of the universe have suspended their Warhol purchases. Iceland, de-banked, has gone back to fishing (if there are any fish left). On the next president will hinge the choice between recession, with a small ''r,'' and Depression, with a big ''D.''
 It's not a time, in history's great sweep, for Quayle's very weird people to run the world. Tremendous might prove an inadequate description of their impact. What we need is a safe pair of hands. Or we'll all be fishing.
 Then I pulled into Peculiar.
 I'd decided to go for a spin around Missouri because this bellwether, battleground state has voted for the winner in every election since 1904, with the sole exception of 1956. In many respects, it is America miniaturized.
 Of its more than 100 rural counties, all but one voted Republican in 2004. But its big cities, St. Louis and Kansas City, are another story, trending heavily Democrat. Rural, Bible-belt, America-first Missouri tends to views St. Louis as the fallen East Coast.
 The growing number of conservative, Evangelical voters led John Kerry to abandon campaigning here four years ago; he lost heavily to President Bush. In Peculiar (motto ''Where the 'Odds' are with you''), Democrats are rare. Cass County, where it's located, voted 61.6 percent Bush.
 There's not a lot to Peculiar, a smattering of low-slung buildings off Highway 71 in western Missouri. At a general store, I asked about the name and a woman told me: ''When they incorporated the town, they tried a few names, but those already existed, and somebody wrote back saying we should try something more 'peculiar.' And, son, we did.''
 End of story.
 Or not quite: America's become a place where Peculiar folks think the city folks have lost the plot and city folks think the rural folks are peculiar.
 In this culture war, where Palin's hockey moms and Joe Sixpacks are supposed to be the only patriots left standing, believing in a woman's right to choose gets cast as unpatriotic. (Remember: belief in regulating markets used to be unpatriotic too.)
 I pulled out of Peculiar, passed a sign saying ''Nothing's hard for God,'' cranked up the radio and got the Eagles:
 ''And I wanna sleep with you In the desert tonight With a billion stars all around Cause I got a peaceful easy feeling And I know you won't let me down ...''
 Man, that felt good: a peaceful easy feeling is not something I've had about the U.S. in a while. But around Humansville (I didn't ask), a country music station brought me this: 
 ''I'm just a common man Drive a common van And my dog ain't got no pedigree I'm just happy to be free Way I wanna be Because highbrow people lose their saniteeee ...''
 That did it. Not wishing to lose mine, I asked Kenneth Warren, a professor of political science at St. Louis University, how Missouri's battle of the Republican common man and the Democratic highbrow crowd was going since the Dow dived and the Bush presidency began its final descent into flames.
 ''There's strong movement in Obama's direction,'' he said. ''He was trailing by 10 points in August, and now two polls show him ahead. You've got a perfect storm for him. With the financial collapse, the Republican White House gets blamed. McCain's looking rattled and disconnected on the economy. And Palin's become a liability because she doesn't look qualified for a crisis.''
 In Branson, in southern Missouri, I met Gail Hinshaw, a business executive. He told me he's an independent who's ''leaned Republican.'' But, he said, ''I'm an orthodox Republican, not big on big government, and who's spent more or grown government more than this president?''
 Hinshaw said no person has all the answers. So he's looking for someone who can pull people together. It's time, he said, to paint or get off the ladder. He senses movement toward Obama as independents like him decide. ''We got to do something different.''
 Missouri's still a toss-up. But if the Hinshaw drift continues in Republican areas and Obama wins the state, he'll likely be elected president by a landslide. Compared to Missouri, most other battleground states look more comfortable for him.
 I'm starting to believe in a Republican bloodbath. You can't fool all the people all the time. As Quayle noted, ''The future will be better tomorrow.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); RELIGION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); COUNTIES (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (69%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (54%) MISSOURI, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); ICELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



543 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Fire The Campaign

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
It's time for John McCain to fire his campaign.
 He has nothing to lose. His campaign is totally overmatched by Obama's. The Obama team is well organized, flush with resources, and the candidate and the campaign are in sync. The McCain campaign, once merely problematic, is now close to being out-and-out dysfunctional. Its combination of strategic incoherence and operational incompetence has become toxic. If the race continues over the next three weeks to be a conventional one, McCain is doomed.
 He may be anyway. Bush is unpopular. The media is hostile. The financial meltdown has made things tougher. Maybe the situation is hopeless -- and if it is, then nothing McCain or his campaign does matters. 
 But I'm not convinced by such claims of inevitability. McCain isn't Bush. The media isn't all-powerful. And the economic crisis still presents an opportunity to show leadership. 
 The 2008 campaign is now about something very big -- both our future prosperity and our national security. Yet the McCain campaign has become smaller.
 What McCain needs to do is junk the whole thing and start over. Shut down the rapid responses, end the frantic e-mails, bench the spinning surrogates, stop putting up new TV and Internet ads every minute. In fact, pull all the ads -- they're doing no good anyway. Use that money for televised town halls and half-hour addresses in prime time.
 And let McCain go back to what he's been good at in the past -- running as a cheerful, open and accessible candidate. Palin should follow suit. The two of them are attractive and competent politicians. They're happy warriors and good campaigners. Set them free.
 Provide total media accessibility on their campaign planes and buses. Kick most of the aides off and send them out to swing states to work for the state coordinators on getting voters to the polls. Keep just a minimal staff to help organize the press conferences McCain and Palin should have at every stop and the TV interviews they should do at every location. Do town halls, do the Sunday TV shows, do talk radio -- and invite Obama and Biden to join them in some of these venues, on the ground that more joint appearances might restore civility and substance to the contest.
 The hope for McCain and Palin is that they still have pretty good favorable ratings from the voters. The American people have by no means turned decisively against them.
 The bad news, of course, is that right now Obama's approval/disapproval rating is better than McCain's. Indeed, Obama's is a bit higher than it was a month ago. That suggests the failure of the McCain campaign's attacks on Obama.
 So drop them.
 Not because they're illegitimate. I think many of them are reasonable. Obama's relationship to the Rev. Jeremiah Wright is, I believe, a legitimate issue. But McCain ruled it out of bounds, and he's sticking to that. And for whatever reason -- the public mood, campaign ineptness, McCain's alternation between hesitancy and harshness, which reflects the fact that he's uncomfortable in the attack role -- the other attacks on Obama just aren't working. There's no reason to think they're suddenly going to.
 There are still enough doubts about Obama to allow McCain to win. But McCain needs to make his case, and do so as a serious but cheerful candidate for times that need a serious but upbeat leader.
 McCain should stop unveiling gimmicky proposals every couple of days that pretend to deal with the financial crisis. He should tell the truth -- we're in uncharted waters, no one is certain what to do, and no one knows what the situation will be on Jan. 20, 2009. But what we do know is that we could use someone as president who's shown in his career the kind of sound judgment and strong leadership we'll need to make it through the crisis.
 McCain can make the substantive case for his broadly centrist conservatism. He can explain that our enemies won't take a vacation because the markets are down, and that it's not unimportant that he's ready to be commander in chief. He can remind voters that even in a recession, the president appoints federal judges -- and that his judges won't legislate from the bench.
 And he can point out that there's going to be a Democratic Congress. He can suggest that surely we'd prefer a president who would check that Congress where necessary and work with it where possible, instead of having an inexperienced Democratic president joined at the hip with an all-too-experienced Democratic Congress, leading us, unfettered and unchecked, back to 1970s-style liberalism.
 At Wednesday night's debate at Hofstra, McCain might want to volunteer a mild mea culpa about the extent to which the presidential race has degenerated into a shouting match. And then he can pledge to the voters that the last three weeks will feature a contest worthy of this moment in our history.
 He'd enjoy it. And he might even win it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (65%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); SARAH PALIN (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



544 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Gordon Does Good

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Has Gordon Brown, the British prime minister, saved the world financial system?
 O.K., the question is premature -- we still don't know the exact shape of the planned financial rescues in Europe or for that matter the United States, let alone whether they'll really work. What we do know, however, is that Mr. Brown and Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the Exchequer (equivalent to our Treasury secretary), have defined the character of the worldwide rescue effort, with other wealthy nations playing catch-up.
 This is an unexpected turn of events. The British government is, after all, very much a junior partner when it comes to world economic affairs. It's true that London is one of the world's great financial centers, but the British economy is far smaller than the U.S. economy, and the Bank of England doesn't have anything like the influence either of the Federal Reserve or of the European Central Bank. So you don't expect to see Britain playing a leadership role. 
 But the Brown government has shown itself willing to think clearly about the financial crisis, and act quickly on its conclusions. And this combination of clarity and decisiveness hasn't been matched by any other Western government, least of all our own. 
 What is the nature of the crisis? The details can be insanely complex, but the basics are fairly simple. The bursting of the housing bubble has led to large losses for anyone who bought assets backed by mortgage payments; these losses have left many financial institutions with too much debt and too little capital to provide the credit the economy needs; troubled financial institutions have tried to meet their debts and increase their capital by selling assets, but this has driven asset prices down, reducing their capital even further. 
 What can be done to stem the crisis? Aid to homeowners, though desirable, can't prevent large losses on bad loans, and in any case will take effect too slowly to help in the current panic. The natural thing to do, then -- and the solution adopted in many previous financial crises -- is to deal with the problem of inadequate financial capital by having governments provide financial institutions with more capital in return for a share of ownership. 
 This sort of temporary part-nationalization, which is often referred to as an ''equity injection,'' is the crisis solution advocated by many economists -- and sources told The Times that it was also the solution privately favored by Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman.
 But when Henry Paulson, the U.S. Treasury secretary, announced his plan for a $700 billion financial bailout, he rejected this obvious path, saying, ''That's what you do when you have failure.'' Instead, he called for government purchases of toxic mortgage-backed securities, based on the theory that ... actually, it never was clear what his theory was. 
 Meanwhile, the British government went straight to the heart of the problem -- and moved to address it with stunning speed. On Wednesday, Mr. Brown's officials announced a plan for major equity injections into British banks, backed up by guarantees on bank debt that should get lending among banks, a crucial part of the financial mechanism, running again. And the first major commitment of funds will come on Monday -- five days after the plan's announcement.
 At a special European summit meeting on Sunday, the major economies of continental Europe in effect declared themselves ready to follow Britain's lead, injecting hundreds of billions of dollars into banks while guaranteeing their debts. And whaddya know, Mr. Paulson -- after arguably wasting several precious weeks -- has also reversed course, and now plans to buy equity stakes rather than bad mortgage securities (although he still seems to be moving with painful slowness).
 As I said, we still don't know whether these moves will work. But policy is, finally, being driven by a clear view of what needs to be done. Which raises the question, why did that clear view have to come from London rather than Washington? 
 It's hard to avoid the sense that Mr. Paulson's initial response was distorted by ideology. Remember, he works for an administration whose philosophy of government can be summed up as ''private good, public bad,'' which must have made it hard to face up to the need for partial government ownership of the financial sector.
 I also wonder how much the Femafication of government under President Bush contributed to Mr. Paulson's fumble. All across the executive branch, knowledgeable professionals have been driven out; there may not have been anyone left at Treasury with the stature and background to tell Mr. Paulson that he wasn't making sense.
 Luckily for the world economy, however, Gordon Brown and his officials are making sense. And they may have shown us the way through this crisis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (75%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (91%); ALISTAIR DARLING (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BEN BERNANKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



545 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: In Friendly Region, Biden Cites McCain as Erratic

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: SCRANTON, Pa. 

 BODY:
The Democratic vice-presidential nominee, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., sharing a stage with Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton for the first time this year, said the campaign of Senator John McCain was stooping to stunts and ''ugly inferences'' because it was losing and was out of ideas.
 Rousing a crowd estimated by the police at 6,000 on an otherwise quiet day on the campaign trail, Mr. Biden said Mr. McCain's campaign had become erratic, a reference to Mr. McCain's changing positions on the financial crisis and his decision two weeks ago to suspend his campaign briefly to deal with it. 
 ''Presidents have to supply steady leadership,'' Mr. Biden told the friendly crowd in this northeastern Pennsylvania city where he spent the first 10 years of his life. He said Mr. McCain had become increasingly desperate and negative because he saw the presidency ''slipping from his grasp.''
 A spokesman for the Republican National Committee dismissed Mr. Biden's remarks as ''standard stuff'' from the Democratic ticket. He declined to comment further.
 The Scranton event drew a larger-than-usual crowd for Mr. Biden because of the presence of the Clintons. Mr. Clinton remains popular in this heavily Democratic, blue-collar city, and Mrs. Clinton's father grew up and is buried here. The Clintons were in Scranton on Sunday to attend the christening of her brother Tony's newborn son, Simon Joseph Rodham.
 In the Democratic primary in April, Mrs. Clinton trounced Senator Barack Obama 74 to 26 percent in Lackawanna County, which includes Scranton. Mr. Obama has deployed Mr. Biden here and in other white working-class enclaves to try to win those voters who preferred Mrs. Clinton by such huge margins. 
 Mr. Clinton, in brief remarks at the beginning of the program, spoke as much about his wife as about the Obama-Biden ticket. People close to Mr. Clinton say he remains bitter about suggestions by Mr. Obama's supporters that he incited racial animosity during the primaries in support of his wife's candidacy. 
 Mr. Obama has been sparing in his use of the former president as a campaign surrogate, although Mr. Clinton left Scranton immediately after speaking to campaign for Mr. Obama in Virginia, a state, Mr. Clinton noted, that had not gone Democratic in a presidential contest for 40 years.
 Mr. Clinton said Mrs. Clinton had already made 50 appearances on behalf of Mr. Obama. ''She has not only done more to support him than any runner-up in the Democratic primary process in my lifetime,'' he said, ''she has done more than all the other runners-up combined.''
 He spoke warmly of Mr. Biden, whom he has known for more than two decades. He said the choice of vice president was more crucial this year than in the past because the next president would be consumed by the global financial emergency.
 ''I hope you know that the next vice president for the first two years will be relatively more important in the larger world than has ever been the case because the president is going to have to close the door to the Oval Office and get this country out of the ditch,'' Mr. Clinton said.
 In her remarks, Mrs. Clinton offered an updated version of an applause line from her own campaign, saying: ''It took a Democratic president to clean up after the last President Bush. It's going to take a Democratic president to clean up after this President Bush.'' (In the primaries, it was ''It took a Clinton ...'')
 She then added a new coda: ''We've done it before, and we'll do it again. America will once again rise from the ashes of the Bushes.''
 Mr. Biden barely mentioned his Republican vice-presidential rival, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska. But he did say that in their televised debate 10 days ago Ms. Palin said she was not certain that global warming was caused by human activity.
 ''How in the hell -- heck -- are you going to change it,'' Mr. Biden said, ''unless you know what caused it?''
 The Democratic ticket is leading in Pennsylvania, according to recent polls, although the McCain campaign is devoting a significant effort to trying to narrow the gap.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. was joined at an appearance on Sunday in Scranton, Pa., by Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); JOE BIDEN (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



546 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2265 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: October 13, 2008

 BODY:
International
RUSSIA'S STOCK MARKET WOES
Threaten Putin's Legacy
Russia's stock market has seen so many nasty twists and turns that it has been repeatedly shut down, as if Russia were some unstable one-horse town rather than the financial giant it aspires to be. The crash has affected mostly the country's elite, but Vladimir V. Putin is facing a threat to his legacy of bringing growth and stability. Page A5
MORE IRANIANS JOIN TAX STRIKE
A strike in the bazaars of Tehran over a recently imposed value-added sales tax, Iran's first, has expanded to other major cities. The bazaars are a crucial part of the traditional economy, and merchants who were to be unaffected by the tax have joined the others in a show of solidarity. The strike has continued despite an order from President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad that the tax be suspended for two months. page A10 
NORTH KOREA WELCOMES NEW STATUS
North Korean confirmed it would resume dismantling its nuclear weapons complex after it was removed from Washington's terrorism blacklist. The country has also pledged to allow international monitors back to the site. The removal of North Korea from the list is a symbolic gesture, but one that aids the poverty-stricken country in gaining some modicum of international acceptance. page A6
CHINA ANNOUNCES AID FOR FARMERS
Reform is on the horizon for China's farmers, the government said. Leaders said they would adopt a rural growth policy that would be aimed at increasing the income of China's farmers, who number in the hundreds of millions, by the year 2020. The policy, which is intended to stimulate market-driven economic growth, could also be the largest economic reform in years. page A6
RACIAL VIOLENCE SURGES ACROSS ITALY
When Abdul William Guibre, who was born in Burkina Faso, was beaten to death with a metal rod by the proprietors of a bar in Milan, the motivation given was theft. Above, protestors gathered in front of the store. Whether the real motivation was race, the crime joins other attacks as part of a recent spike in violence against immigrants. The aftershocks of these crimes have worked their way up the social and bureaucratic ladders as the attacks are held up to scrutiny by the media and the government. page A5
SECTARIAN TENSIONS IN ISRAELI TOWN
The focus should have been on the Jewish-Arab alternative theater festival, but instead the Jewish and Arab residents of Acre, Israel traded accusations and blame after four days of riots and sectarian violence there. The tensions were caused by a perceived disrespect of the Jewish holiday Yom Kippur. The riots are seen by residents as a monument to the fragile relations between the two peoples. page A11
NATIONAL
WHEN STOPPING FOR FUEL
Might Mean a Trip to the Dump
The Escape From Berkeley event is pretty much a classic road rally, covering 600 miles from Berkeley, Calif., to Las Vegas. Except that in this one, petroleum products are not allowed, and, except for one gallon to start, fuel has to be found or scavenged along the way. The five teams that started the rally were driving all manner of alternative-fuel-burning jalopies, roadsters and even a vegetable-oil-fueled Mercedes-Benz. PAGE A12
LAWYER TAKES CENTER STAGE
The trial of Senator Ted Stevens is heading into its third and possibly final week, and Brendan Sullivan, the chief defense lawyer, has made himself the central figure in the courtroom. Combining a calibrated theatricality and exhaustive preparation, he has set prosecutors back on their heels. At times, he has even seemed to come close to persuading the judge to declare a mistrial. PAGE A13
CLINTONS STUMP FOR OBAMA
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., sharing a stage with both Bill and Hillary Clinton for the first time this year, said in Scranton, Pa., that the campaign of Senator John McCain was stooping to stunts and ''ugly inferences'' because it was losing and was out of ideas. Mrs. Clinton, who in the April Democratic primary trounced Senator Barack Obama by 74 percent to 26 percent in Lackawanna County, which includes Scranton, said, ''America will once again rise from the ashes of the Bushes.'' PAGE A16
PRESSURE ON MCCAIN CAMP
Despite signals that Senator John McCain would have new prescriptions for the economic crisis after a weekend of meetings, the McCain campaign said he would not have any more proposals this week unless developments called for some. The signs of internal confusion came as the McCain campaign is under pressure from state party leaders to sharpen his message on the economy and at least blunt the advantage that Democrats traditionally have on the issue in hard times. PAGE A18
OBITUARIES
THE REV. FRANCIS B. SAYRE JR., 93
In his 27 years as dean of the National Cathedral in Washington, he raised his sonorous voice against McCarthyism, segregation, poverty and the Vietnam War while presiding over construction of the cathedral's majestic Gloria in Excelsis Tower. PAGE A27
BUSINESS
HOLLYWOOD STILL OFFERING
Good Old Escapism
The financial news may be inspiring panic elsewhere, but Hollywood is making movies and deals, financiers are bankrolling them, and people are going to see the ones already made. And why not, if the alternative is a night of watching the serial disaster movie on CNBC or CNN? David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1
NEWSPAPER ONLINE REVENUE DOWN
Newspaper companies have been rapidly expanding their Web presence in the belief that more features would bring more advertisers. But after 17 quarters of ballooning growth, online revenue at newspaper sites is falling. In the second quarter, it was down 2.4 percent compared with last year, according to the Newspaper Association of America. It was the only year-over-year drop since the group began measuring online revenue in 2003. Overall online advertising, however, is strong. PAGE B1
MEDIA SITES LINKING IN
For years, the Web sites for newspapers, television stations and magazines have been hesitant to link to other Web sites, the logic being to keep users on their own site (and looking at their own advertising). But that hesitancy is eroding as ''link journalism'' gains traction in newsrooms across the country. The Google model helped provide the inspiration. PAGE B4
WHERE'S '30 ROCK'?
Wondering why NBC has not gotten ''30 Rock'' on the air yet to take advantage of Tina Fey's current hotness; Newsweek's books, one about each of the major presidential and vice presidential candidates, to be available only as e-books from Amazon; and the NBC correspondent Andrea Mitchell's ethical quandary involving her husband. Media Talk. PAGE B6
THE PULL OF ABU DHABI
A number of media companies, including CNN and the British Broadcasting Corporation, announced plans to open offices in a media center in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates. The government of Abu Dhabi hopes the center will mix Western media companies with billions in Middle Eastern oil money and help it reach its goal of becoming a cultural and media center of the Middle East. PAGE B6
THIN IS IN AGAIN
For years, slow data connections and clunky software turned the goal of so-called thin-client computers into an industry joke. But improvements in technology have made the models -- which send out work over the network rather than relying on their innards to handle it -- more attractive to large companies like Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems and Samsung. PAGE B7
NEW YORK
A PUSH TO OPEN SCHOOLS
For Special-Needs Students
When it opens next year, Westbrook Preparatory School will be New York State's first residential school for students with high-functioning autism. The new school, which will serve 24 middle and high school students, is part of a statewide push to bring special education students back from out-of-state private schools by creating publicly financed alternatives closer to home. PAGE A21
TURNING OFF THE WATERFALLS
The waterfall exhibits on the East River -- four giant water-pumping contraptions that took a team of nearly 200 designers, engineers and construction experts to build, at a cost of $15.5 million -- draws to a close on Monday after a 15-week run. For some people tired of the salty spray and what they say is environmental damage, that will be none too soon. PAGE A26
Metropolitan Diary A22
SPORTS
A SUPER BOWL HERO
Unsure of a Giants Job
David Tyree of the Giants, he of the historic acrobatic catch in the Super Bowl's final minutes last winter, had surgery on his right knee in April and has not played since. At age 28, in his sixth season, Tyree is still on the edge, primarily a special-teams player who covers punts and kickoffs, a risky role. Even if he gets fit enough to play, he is not assured a job. PAGE D4
MORE HEAT AT CHICAGO MARATHON
For a second consecutive year, hot weather at the Chicago Marathon made it a victory for many of the 33,000 participants simply to reach the finish line. And after many complaints about insufficient water supplies in 2007, runners praised organizers for having plentiful drinks and aid stations available. Evans Cheruiyot of Kenya won in 2 hours 6 minutes 25 seconds. Lidiya Grigoreyva of Russia, took first in the women's race in 2:27:17. PAGE D8
STEPPING IT UP IN THE POSTSEASON
Jonathan Papelbon, the Red Sox closer who has not allowed a run in his first 22 career playoff innings, is already infatuated with his legacy at age 28 and in only his fourth season in the majors. ''For me, I've always told myself, big leaguers are remembered throughout this game for what they do in the postseason and for championships,'' Papelbon said. ''For me, it's always been a critical part of my game to kind of step it up in the postseason.'' PAGE D7
Arts
THE POWER POLITICAL
Of Caricatures and Pratfalls
A bumbling president, a rube candidate, a greedy politician -- whether accurate or not, political caricatures can be more powerful than any argument. So what gives caricature its unusual power? It typically takes a particular feature -- a hairdo, a verbal tic, an accent -- and exaggerates it, as Tina Fey does in her impression of Sarah Palin, giving it such prominence that we come to see the politician in a new and different light. PAGE C1
JEKYLL, HYDE AND A DASH OF 007
Most people wake up on the wrong side of bed. In NBC's ''My Own Worst Enemy,'' Christian Slater wakes up on the wrong side of his brain, playing a man with two identities. One is a suburban dad. The other is a trained assassin. The show is a well-constructed puzzle with many layers, and Mr. Slater does a remarkable job of subtly signaling each personality, Alessandra Stanley writes. PAGE C1
ON OPPOSITE SIDES OF THE LAW
In ''The Brass Verdict,'' Michael Connelly, who writes multiple mystery series, introduces Harry Bosch, his brooding police detective, to the new kid on the block: Mickey Haller, desperado defense attorney, the title character in ''The Lincoln Lawyer.'' When Harry meets Mickey it's not love at first sight, but as the author's closest readers already understand, they are brothers under the skin, Janet Maslin writes. PAGE C1
KINGDOMS FOR THE PEOPLE IN CHINA
The exhibit ''Tulou: Affordable Housing for China,'' just opened at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, and while it may not dispel the Western image of Chinese cities as nightmarish visions of dehumanizing towers, it offers further evidence that China has become the most fertile territory on the globe for experimentation by architects. That innovation extends to affordable housing and to monumental Olympic stadiums, Nicolai Ouroussoff writes. PAGE C1
REVISITING THE CLINTON 'WAR ROOM'
In 1993, the film ''The War Room,'' by the directors Chris Hegedus and D. A. Pennebaker, captured the strategists behind Bill Clinton's upstart presidential campaign. Now they return with a new political documentary, ''The Return of the War Room,'' which debuts Monday on the Sundance Channel. ''People didn't like to think of elections as wars, which of course they are,'' Mr. Pennebaker said. PAGE C3
AN EVENING WITH PRINCE
Prince preformed at a claustrophobically small charity concert on Friday night in the rooftop loft at the Hotel Gansevoort. The pop musician, who was by turns sensual, exuberant and raw, may no longer surprise, but he still has the capacity to astonish, Jon Caramanica writes. PAGE C5
Editorial
ABORTION RIGHTS ARE ON THE BALLOT
Once again this year, opponents of women's reproductive rights have gotten initiatives aimed at ending or limiting abortion rights on ballots. These measures, which violate women's privacy and threaten their health, have implications far beyond those states. If voters approve them, they will become a weapon in the right-wing campaign to overturn Roe v. Wade. Page A28
NEW AND UNNECESSARY
With the Bush administration, no bad idea ever dies. So it should be no surprise that the Pentagon and the Department of Energy have released a new policy paper -- pitched to the next president -- arguing the case for a new nuclear warhead. Page A28
Op-Ed
WILLIAM KRISTOL
It's time for John McCain to fire his campaign: shut down the rapid responses, bench the spinning surrogates and pull all the ads. Then Mr. McCain can make his case, and do so as a serious but cheerful candidate for times that need a serious but upbeat leader. Page A29
PAUL KRUGMAN
The British government has shown itself willing to think clearly about the financial crisis, and act on its conclusions. And it may have shown us the way through. Page A29
DELIVERING THE CURE
A plan to have the Postal Service help deliver antibiotics for anthrax in the event of a terrorist attack will work only if an adequate amount of the medicine can be delivered to cities quickly, Lawrence M. Wein writes. Page A29

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (84%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); VALUE ADDED TAX (75%); RETAILERS (75%); SALES TAX (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RIOTS (67%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (67%); TERRORISM (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); YOM KIPPUR (63%); RACE & RACISM (62%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); THEATER & DRAMA (50%); THEATER (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ITALY (79%); IRAN (79%); BURKINA FASO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



547 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Mccain Reschedules With Letterman

BYLINE: Compiled by STEVEN McELROY

 BODY:
SenatorJohn McCain has agreed to appear on David Letterman's ''Late Show'' on CBS this Thursday, according to the show's Web site, lateshow.cbs.com. The appearance comes after Mr. McCain canceled a Sept. 24 appearance, saying he was suspending his campaign and heading to Washington to give the economic crisis his immediate attention. When Mr. Letterman, above right, learned that Mr. McCain was staying in New York for another day and sitting for an interview with Katie Couric, he ripped into the candidate on the air, saying he felt like ''an ugly date'' and questioning the wisdom of Mr. McCain's campaign suspension. This all should provide some interesting tension for the newly scheduled appearance by Mr. McCain, who will be interviewed the night after the final presidential debate. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); KATIE COURIC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



548 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: No New Economic Proposal Expected From McCain

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Elisabeth Bumiller and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Despite signals that Senator John McCain would have new prescriptions for the economic crisis after a weekend of meetings, his campaign said Sunday that Mr. McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, would not have any more proposals this week unless developments call for some. 
 The signs of internal confusion came as the campaign was under pressure from state party leaders to sharpen his message on the economy and at least blunt the advantage that Democrats traditionally have on the issue in hard times. Republicans have grown fretful as Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, has edged ahead in polls three weeks before the election, while Mr. McCain has veered between ill-received economic plans and attacks on Mr. Obama's character. 
 Mr. McCain took a break Sunday from filming campaign advertisements and practicing for a final debate with Mr. Obama on Wednesday to cheer volunteers at a phone bank near his Northern Virginia headquarters. Mr. McCain told them he planned to ''whip his you-know-what in this debate.'' The group erupted with laughter and applause.
 On Saturday, his advisers were considering a range of economic ideas, one indicated. On Sunday, on the CBS News program ''Face the Nation,'' Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a confidant of Mr. McCain, confirmed a report on Politico.com that Mr. McCain was weighing proposals to cut taxes on investors' capital gains and dividends. ''It will be a very comprehensive approach to jump-start the economy,'' Mr. Graham said, ''by allowing capital to be formed easier in America by lowering taxes.''
 But McCain advisers later said they did not know why Mr. Graham said that. One noted that Mr. McCain's economic plan already would cut capital gains and dividend tax rates, by extending President Bush's 2003 tax cuts. At the phone bank, Mr. McCain declined to answer a question from a reporter about what he was considering.
 ''We do not have any immediate plans to announce any policy proposals outside of the proposals that John McCain has announced, and the certain proposals that would result as economic news continues to come our way,'' said a campaign spokesman, Tucker Bounds. Mr. McCain's policy adviser, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, said, ''I have no comment on anything, to anybody.''
 Rarely have presidential campaigns had to react so close to an election to so serious a crisis as the global economic panic. Both candidates are struggling to look like leaders, without impeding the efforts of those in charge. By nearly all accounts and in recent polls, Mr. Obama has received higher marks for projecting calm and consistency while Mr. McCain has been criticized as flailing.
 ''At this point I don't think McCain can say anything on the economy that will sound credible,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a former economic adviser to President Ronald Reagan and President George Bush.
 Mr. McCain continued to draw criticism for his announcement last week that, as president, he would have the Treasury buy troubled mortgages at face value and give qualified homeowners instead government-guaranteed, low-interest mortgages based on their residences' reduced value. After first saying lenders would pay the difference, the next day the McCain campaign said taxpayers would.
 On the ABC News program ''This Week'' on Sunday, the second-ranking House Republican leader, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, suggested, as the Obama campaign has, that the McCain mortgage proposal was unnecessary because the concept was ''essentially in several pieces of law already'' and wrong to leave taxpayers with the cost. 
 ''Somebody needs to take the loss here, and it needs to be the person that had the bad judgment of making that loan, of buying those poorly put-together mortgage-backed securities,'' Mr. Blunt said. ''It shouldn't be loss borne by the taxpayer.''
 Both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama plan speeches Monday on the economy. Mr. Obama, at a rally in Toledo, Ohio, will suggest ways to build on the government's plan to inject capital into banks to ease the credit crisis, an adviser said.
 Mr. McCain will be in North Carolina and Virginia, states that Republicans can normally count on but where Mr. Obama is showing strength. In his visit with volunteers on Sunday, Mr. McCain acknowledged that ''the economy has hurt us a little bit in the last week or two'' and that he was ''a couple points down'' in national polls. 
 But he said he would rebound because voters ''want knowledge and they want vision.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Lindsey Graham, right, in an interview discussed a tax plan by Senator John McCain that his campaign later disavowed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



549 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: History Suggests McCain Faces an Uphill Battle

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Has John McCain fallen too far behind, too late in the presidential campaign, to overtake Barack Obama?
 That is the question facing strategists in both parties three weeks before Election Day. History suggests that the answer is probably so.
 Mr. Obama has already made history as the first African-American to become a major-party nominee for president. But his breakthrough represents a wild card that could yield election returns at odds with poll results. Beyond that, Mr. McCain's hopes rest on capturing the support of undecided voters, as well as shaking loose some voters who support his Democratic rival.
 No one, including Mr. Obama's advisers, says such a turnaround in Mr. McCain's favor is impossible. But the magnitude of Mr. McCain's task may leave him depending on a misstep by Mr. Obama or a national security crisis rather than on what he can achieve through speeches, advertising or a winning performance in the final debate on Wednesday. 
 ''At this point,'' said Matthew Dowd, a strategist for George W. Bush in 2000 and 2004, ''the campaign is totally out of John McCain's hands.''
 A Gap Tough to Close
 In the latest Gallup tracking poll, Mr. Obama leads Mr. McCain 50 percent to 43 percent among registered voters. Mr. McCain's deficit in that survey has remained seven percentage points or more for most of the last two weeks.
 Since Gallup began presidential polling in 1936, only one candidate has overcome a deficit that large, and this late, to win the White House: Ronald Reagan, who trailed President Jimmy Carter 47 percent to 39 percent in a survey completed on Oct. 26, 1980.
 Yet Mr. Carter, like Mr. McCain today, represented the party holding the White House in bad times. After Mr. Reagan successfully presented himself as an alternative to Mr. Carter in their lone debate, held on the late date of Oct. 28, he surged ahead. After two debates, Mr. Obama holds a lead that is approaching Mr. Reagan's eventual margin of victory.
 In 1968, Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey all but erased a 12-point early-October deficit before losing narrowly to Richard M. Nixon. In 2000, Vice President Al Gore wiped out a seven-point deficit in the final 10 days of the election, winning the popular vote but losing the Electoral College to Mr. Bush.
 But since polling began, the pattern is that swings in opinion get smaller as Election Day approaches and voters gather more information. As American politics have grown more polarized, the opportunity for large swings has become smaller still. 
 Four years ago, Senator John Kerry trailed Mr. Bush slightly in the homestretch. A near-even split on Election Day among the few remaining undecided voters sealed Mr. Kerry's defeat.
 ''There appears to be more flex in the current electorate than in 2004, but less than in 2000,'' said Richard Johnston, research director of the National Annenberg Election Survey, at the University of Pennsylvania. 
 Mr. McCain's strategists acknowledge that for a realistic chance to win the election through battleground states, Mr. McCain must reduce Mr. Obama's advantage in the national popular vote to no more than three or four percentage points. In 2000, Mr. Bush finished less than one percentage point behind Mr. Gore in the popular vote.
 Since 1948, front-running candidates have typically preserved three-fourths of their October leads, said Larry M. Bartels, a political scientist at Princeton. Applying statistical theory to current polls, he pegged Mr. Obama's chance of winning the popular vote at ''a little over 90 percent.''
 Mr. Bartels noted three factors that might skew the results. Two of them, a potential surge in voter turnout and the tendency of undecided voters to punish the party holding the White House during an economic downturn, appear to favor Mr. Obama. The third, racial resistance among white voters, favors Mr. McCain.
 Focus on White Voters
 Ahead in once-reliably red states like Colorado, Florida, Ohio and Virginia, Mr. Obama need not win any new voters. If he holds his 50 percent share in Gallup's survey, and third-party candidates like Bob Barr and Ralph Nader draw 3 percent collectively, Mr. McCain can pull no closer than 47 percent. 
 The McCain campaign sees scant opportunity to erode Mr. Obama's strong support among blacks and his two-to-one edge among Hispanics. But Mr. McCain's strategists think that one in five white voters -- roughly 15 percent of the electorate -- remains open to persuasion.
 The campaign says that those voters tend to be younger, single, less educated and female, and that they also include senior citizens distressed over sagging investments. Those voters are the target audience for Mr. McCain's recent attacks on Mr. Obama's ties to William Ayers, a founder of the Weather Underground.
 If one-third of those voters shift allegiance from Mr. Obama to Mr. McCain, they will produce a 10-percentage-point swing, wiping out Mr. Obama's lead. Mr. Obama's strategists say voter preferences have hardened enough to make that difficult.
 Mr. McCain's assessment of whether it is possible may influence his campaign's efforts to assail Mr. Obama's character. Facing heavy criticism, Mr. McCain late last week turned ambivalent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (53%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JIMMY CARTER (78%); AL GORE (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



550 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Back to 1992: Revisiting the Clinton 'War Room'

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
The directors Chris Hegedus and D. A. Pennebaker call their new political documentary ''The Return of the War Room.'' But the political strategists who inhabited that fabled room -- the one where, in 1992, Bill Clinton's upstart presidential campaign was waged -- never really left.
 James Carville, a senior strategist for Mr. Clinton and the star of Ms. Hegedus and Mr. Pennebaker's original ''War Room'' film, is now a political analyst for CNN, sitting alongside Paul Begala, another senior strategist for Mr. Clinton. Mr. Carville's wife, Mary Matalin, a deputy campaign manager for the George H. W. Bush re-election campaign then, is an editor for a conservative book imprint and a frequent guest on political programs. George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's communications director at the time, is the host of ''This Week'' on ABC. 
 Although they appear on television regularly, they manage to say something new in ''The Return of the War Room,'' which has its debut Monday night on the Sundance Channel. Mr. Stephanopoulos poses the most pertinent question of the 90-minute film: ''Is the era of the war room dead?'' He wonders aloud whether the concept has been surpassed or transformed by subsequent campaigns. 
 It has at the very least evolved. The notion of a war room -- let no attack go unanswered, let no opportunity go unexploited -- is common now. But in 1993, when ''The War Room'' was nominated for an Academy Award, a rapid-response operation was still an exotic concept. ''People didn't like to think of elections as wars, which of course they are,'' Mr. Pennebaker said in a phone interview last week.
 ''The War Room'' also propelled the idea that campaign strategists could be celebrities in their own right, at times even attracting more attention than the candidates themselves. In the film Ms. Matalin made the observation that ''1992 was the first campaign where the behind-the-scenes people were so glamorous to the press.'' 
 That a film crew was spending time on Mr. Carville's couch certainly contributed to the glamour. When Ms. Hegedus and Mr. Pennebaker, a husband-and-wife team, set out to follow the Clinton campaign, they had hoped to embed themselves with the candidate. But ''he didn't want a camera crew following him around,'' Ms. Hegedus recalled. Spending time with the campaign staffers in Little Rock, Ark., seemed to be a consolation prize until they arrived.
 ''Most of the people there were really so interesting and idealistic and passionate,'' she said. ''You couldn't help but be on their side and mesmerized by what they were trying to do.''
 Watching the film 16 years later -- Sundance will show the original immediately after ''The Return'' -- a viewer can't help but wonder why the campaign allowed cameras at all. Mr. Pennebaker's theory: ''If you find somebody who's doing something really interesting, and he's good at it, and he knows he's good at it, they kind of want to have that memorialized.'' 
 In a separate phone interview Mr. Carville said, ''Who wouldn't like to be the subject of a film?''
 The filmmakers decided to reinterview all the major figures of the 1992 war room after they learned they would be able to reacquire the rights to the original film this year. They had planned to produce a look-back feature for a new edition of ''The War Room'' on DVD. Then the Sundance Channel showed interest in broadcasting it as a documentary. 
 ''There were just so many elements of that campaign that have remained important for future campaigns,'' Ms. Hegedus said.
 The pair were pleasantly surprised to find that many of the members of the 1992 war room still speak to one another. As Rahm Emanuel, a key fund-raiser for Mr. Clinton then and now a Democratic congressman from Illinois, said in the film, ''it's a conversation that never ended.''
 The documentary observes that Mr. Carville and other strategists wound up advising candidates in other countries about war rooms. (The war-room label was devised by Hillary Rodham Clinton, Ms. Hegedus recalled, to ''send a message to Republicans.'')
 Watching ''The War Room'' is a reminder that the rallying cry of campaigns changes little in each election cycle. On a whiteboard in Mr. Clinton's 1992 war room Mr. Carville scrawled three phrases to keep people on message. ''Change vs. more of the same'' appears on top, followed by the now-famous ''It's the economy, stupid'' and an admonition not to forget about health care.
 The similarities between Mr. Clinton and Senator Barack Obama -- both young, relatively unknown politicians at their respective times -- are also made evident by the documentary. But the pace of the political cycle is surely different now. ''I wouldn't know how to run a campaign in this environment,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos told the filmmakers.
 The directors view themselves as historians of a sort. And the memories, expressed by Ms. Matalin in ''The Return,'' of having newspapers delivered by courier certainly do seem of a different era. The filmmakers said they have not tried to film the war rooms of any candidates since 1992. ''You kind of hesitate to go back,'' Mr. Pennebaker said. ''Anything you do will be compared with the original, and you could never do it better.''
 Mr. Carville feels the same way. He said his interview with the filmmakers reminded him of his ''wisdom to stay out of domestic political consulting after 1992.''
 ''It was a good time for me, and a good time to leave,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The strategist James Carville was the focus of the original film. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN HARRINGTON/XM SATELLITE RADIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (73%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Return of the War Room, The (TV Program)>; Return of the War Room, The (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008



551 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE CAMPAIGN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: It Ain't Over Till It's Over

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Howard Wolfson, the generally pessimistic Democratic consultant who was a senior adviser to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, wrote an item on his blog at The New Republic the other day, declaring without qualification that Senator Barack Obama would defeat Senator John McCain. 
 ''It's Over,'' the headline read. 
 Interviews with Republican leaders and strategists over the past few days turned up little real resistance to Mr. Wolfson's pronouncement, though none of those interviewed was prepared to say anything like that for the record.
 But is it over? With 23 days, one presidential debate, and countless advertisements, speeches and attacks and counterattacks left to go, could this hugely anticipated race for the White House really be over? 
 Mr. Wolfson was not exactly going out on a limb. A series of national polls suggest that Mr. Obama has built a steady lead over Mr. McCain (10 percentage points in today's Washington Post/ABC News Poll). The presidential and vice presidential debates have not been good to Mr. McCain, not to mention the economic crisis and Mr. McCain's unsteady response to it. What is more, this is the time in an election when people are locking in their decisions, or actually voting in early voting programs.
 Still, there are some questions hanging over this most unusual of elections, and it is hard to begrudge Mr. McCain and his supporters the right to hold up a stop sign. 
 ''I think this thing is going to go down to the wire,'' said Dick Wadhams, the Colorado Republican chairman.
 Some things to keep in mind:
 1 -- There have been huge surges in voter registration reported in key states like Florida and Colorado, by all accounts reflecting the intense interest in Mr. Obama, his campaign's aggressive effort to sign up new voters, particularly younger and black voters, and the declining fortunes of the Republican Party. That is the one big reason Mr. Obama's senior advisers are feeling so bullish these days.
 Still, it is one thing to register to vote; which can often be accomplished by filling out and signing a form provided to you on the street or at your doorstep. It's quite another to get them to come out and vote. If Mr. Obama's campaign succeeds at what it has promised, it is possible that Mr. McCain will lose in an Electoral College landslide, winning a bunch of Republican states by slim margins driven by get-out-the-vote operations. Still, first-time voters are inexperienced voters and, Mr. McCain's advisers are no doubt hoping, less likely to turn out if, say, the weather is bad.
 2 -- As my colleague Jeff Zeleny reported on Sunday, the Obama campaign has invested millions of dollars and thousands of volunteers into developing highly sophisticated operations to identify supporters and get them to the polls. The campaign is building on -- and presumably improving upon -- the model that the Republican National Committee set up starting in 2000, under Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief strategist, and Ken Mehlman, the former Republican National chairman. 
 Still, there is one important difference: These are to a considerable extent new operations. The Republican turnout operations got better with each cycle because party leaders figured out what worked and what did not. 
 That is not to say that Mr. Obama's operation cannot do exactly what his aides say it will. It's just that there really is no way to accurately judge which campaign has the better turnout operation until the votes are counted.
 3 -- Campaigns have rhythms, and inevitably swing back and forth for all kinds of reasons, including mistakes by candidates (think Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and driver's licenses for illegal immigrants) and the news media's desire for a competitive race and tendency to find the ''underdog is surging'' story line irresistible. The pendulum theory is certainly one that Republicans are grabbing onto these days. 
 ''I think over these last 30 days, there's going to be a change in how the American people view this campaign,'' said Jim Greer, the Republican chairman of Florida, a state where Mr. McCain finds himself in a particularly tough fight with Mr. Obama.
 The question for Mr. McCain, of course, is whether there is enough time left for the pendulum to swing one more time, absent a big mistake by Mr. Obama, or ... .
 4 -- Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who ran for president in 2004, has argued that he would have beaten President Bush had Osama bin Laden not released a video message just days before Election Day. Whether the tape's effect truly was decisive is debatable, but it is clear that Mr. bin Laden gave that election a very big jolt in the direction where Mr. Bush wanted to fight it, much the way the Wall Street crisis in September moved the 2008 election onto Democratic turf. 
 This race has been filled with surprises, so it would almost be a surprise if something else didn't happen before the polls open. Mr. McCain clearly has an edge over Mr. Obama on national security; Democrats and Republicans agree that a serious domestic terrorism threat or attack could shuffle the deck of cards going into the final days.
 5 -- Race is, of course, the question that has hovered over the contest for two years. Are there a significant number of white voters who will not support Mr. Obama because he is black, no matter what they tell pollsters? Some Republicans said they have come to look at this as Mr. McCain's last, best hope.
 6 -- Mr. McCain has clearly decided to go into the final weeks of the campaign hitting Mr. Obama about his passing acquaintance in Chicago with William Ayers, a former member of the Weather Underground, while Republicans have been pushing Mr. McCain to hit Mr. Obama on his relationship with his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. Mr. Wolfson argued that this would not work because concerns about the economy were so strong, and many Republicans said that this late in the game, Mr. McCain was going to have an awfully tough time raising questions about Mr. Obama's character. 
 This kind of attack -- the overall idea, as Mr. McCain keeps suggesting, that people don't really know (and thus can't trust) Mr. Obama -- sometimes creeps up on an opponent, gathering force and credibility. But even some Republicans think that might be tough with Mr. Obama. 
 ''People think he's basically a decent guy,'' said Vin Weber, a former Republican member of Congress from Minnesota. But Mr. McCain's advisers said he intended to keep hitting the Ayers question in the days, if not weeks, ahead, in the belief that this might be what it takes to get his campaign on track.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



552 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Extra! Extra! Read All About It!

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students will play a "news literacy" game to examine the design, layout and content of a typical New York Times front page. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students will play a "news literacy" game to examine the design, layout and content of a typical New York Times front page.
Author(s):
Sarah Kavanagh, The New York Times Learning Network
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 to 2 class periods. 
Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up: Before class, collect, or assign students to bring, enough copies of a New York Times front page for half the students. These might all be from the same day or from many different days. If this is not possible, you may also provide students with a copy of The New York Times Front Page Poster). 
In class, pair students and provide each pair with a Times front page and a face-down copy of the Front Page Bingo handout, created in partnership with the New York Times Knowledge Network, and found . Tell them that when you say "go," they should turn over their bingo sheets and begin filling in as many blanks as they can. The first team to correctly enter information in a line horizontally, diagonally or vertically should call out "Bingo!" to win. When all pairs are finished, have the students share their answers. 
 Ask:
 a. What, if anything, might students change after hearing their classmates' responses?
 b. Which bingo boxes were easiest to fill? Why might that be?
 c. Does it matter how the front page is organized? Why?
 d. Is it important for the front page to have a consistent design? Why? Should it always be organized the same way? Why? 
 e. Would they make any changes to The Times' front page design? If so, what would they change?
 f. What factors might lead The Times to change its design at some point?
 g. Can they think of other products that have changed their logos or labels? What might have led them to do so? 
2. Article Questions: As a class, read and discuss the article "New E-Newspaper Reader Echoes Look of the Paper," focusing on the following questions:

a. How would the introduction of an electronic newspaper reader change American newspapers? How might it affect newspaper readership? How might it alter newspaper advertising?
b. Why are newspapers facing financial troubles? Would the introduction of an electronic newspaper reader help newspapers financially? Why or why not? What else might be done to address the financial troubles faced by American newspapers?
c. Would you buy an electronic newspaper reader? Why or why not? Who do you think would buy it?
d. Do the questions of consumer privacy brought up in the article concern you? Why or why not? 
3. Activity: Provide students with a historical New York Times front page. You may also wish to use a front page reproduction from the date you are teaching this lesson. Simply scan the On This Day section of the New York Times Learning Network for the date of your choice. Instruct students to examine the Page One reproduction alongside a front page from today or the annotated Page One poster. 
Ask: 

        
What differences do you notice between the two?
        
Are all the highlights of the contemporary front page present in the historical front page? If not, what is missing?
        
Are both front pages organized in the same way?
        
Which one catches your interest more? Why?
        
Do you think that the historical front page and the contemporary front page are being marketed to the same audience? Why or why not?
        
Is there anything that The New York Times of today could learn from The New York Times of the past? If so, what?
        
What factors to you think led The Times to change its look?
4. For Homework or in Future Classes: Students can redesign the historical front page to include the same news but in a more contemporary, eye-catching format. Have them include all of the highlights of the contemporary front page in their design. 
Related Times Resources: 

        
 Additional Times Articles and Multimedia
Timeline: "The First 150 Years of the New York Times"
Audio Slideshow: "The Sounds of a Newsroom"
        
Learning Network Resources
Issues In Depth: "Journalism"
Crossword: "Page One"
Crossword: "In the Newspaper"
        
 Archival Times Materials
Article: "The First Issue: Imagining How a Paper Was Born"
Article: "150 and Counting: The Story So Far"
        
Times Topics
The New York Times
Newspapers

Interdisciplinary Connections
Economics: Examine the financial crunch newspapers are experiencing now that news is easily accessible on the Internet. Write a proposal to send major newspapers outlining a plan to increase profits for newspapers in light of advances in technology. Geography: Compare The New York Times front page to that of a newspaper from a different country (found at newsdirectory.com). What is different about the design and content of the paper? What might these differences say about the culture of each country? Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6 to 8, 9 to 12
Language Arts Standard 7: Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts.
Language Arts Standard 10: Understands the characteristics and components of media.
Historical Understanding Standard 2: Understands the historical perspective.

        
New E-Newspaper Reader Echoes Look of the Paper

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (89%); HISTORY (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (72%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (61%) American History; History of North America; Journalism; Journalistic Writing; Media Studies; The Influence of the Mass Media

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (85%); LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



553 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; POSTINGS RECENT ENTRIES FROM OUR BLOGS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 517 words

 BODY:
Well
 From Tara Parker-Pope's blog, nytimes.com/well.
 Among the 45 million smokers in the United States, about 19 percent don't smoke every day -- only on weekends, or a few times a week in social situations. 
 They may think they are avoiding the health hazards of smoking. But new research shows that even an occasional cigarette can impair artery function, a sign of looming heart disease.
 In a small study of healthy college students, researchers at the University of Georgia found that the arteries of occasional smokers were 36 percent less responsive to changes in blood flow than nonsmokers. And after the occasional smokers smoked two cigarettes, arterial responsiveness dropped 24 percent more.
 Sam replies: This study confirms what we see anecdotally as surgeons. Several years ago I reattached three fingers on a patient who promised no smoking after the surgery. Several weeks later, I got a late-night call from the E.R.: one finger was almost completely black. The patient admitted tearfully of smoking ''one or two'' cigarettes that day.
 Dot Earth
 From Andrew C. Revkin's blog, nytimes.com/dotearth.
 I asked Herman Daly, a specialist in ''ecological economics,'' about the recent financial turmoil. He pointed me to a short piece he wrote about economic theory, one that gets at a keystone concept of Dot Earth: How many people, consuming how much stuff, can one planet support?
 To Dr. Daly, the implosion was an inevitable reorientation of the market toward the only real economy -- the one grounded in actual assets. In the end, the only economy that can't be gamed is one that is grounded in the way the earth works. That is where ''real wealth'' and real limits lie, he says.
 This relates to the climate challenge. Carbon dioxide builds like unpaid credit card debt. The longer societies delay action, the bigger the climatic debt. Maybe it'll all work out and the greenhouse warming from the buildup will be on the low end. But maybe not. The world tried a big financial gamble in recent years and the consequences are clear now. How will the current climate bet play out?
 The New Old Age
 From Jane Gross's blog, nytimes.com/newoldage.
 Is being called ''dear'' in old age kindness or condescension? What about being told that you must have been beautiful when you were young? Or having your doctor direct all comments and questions to your adult son or daughter when you are right there in the room?
 What do you make of the people who pat you on the head, as they might a small child or a dog? And sex? You couldn't possibly be interested anymore. Sing-alongs and bingo are now assumed to be your idea of fun.
 These examples of patronizing or insulting behavior directed at the elderly poured into this blog after my colleague John Leland asked for your help gathering examples of such treatment, how you feel about it, and what you do or say in response.
 Arwin replies: The use of first names is often cultural and not an insult. The larger question is how to deal with the disintegration of family and social structures that held elderly people as sources of wisdom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (96%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (74%); HEART DISEASE (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



554 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Sovereign Funds Now Prefer Hoarding Cash to Rescuing U.S. Financial Firms

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Don't expect Middle Eastern sovereign wealth funds to jump on the bailout bandwagon.
 Given the recent volatility in the stock markets, some large sovereign wealth funds have been hoarding cash, much like the hedge funds and institutional investment funds that have been running for cover.
 The oil-rich emirate of Abu Dhabi oversees the world's largest government-sponsored fund, for example, and has been steadily adding to its cash position, which is at its highest in years. According to people who have been briefed on its investment strategy, 10 to 20 percent of $550 billion controlled by the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority is now in cash. 
 Very little of that is expected to go to wounded financial institutions in America, these people say.
 The second-largest fund in the region, the Kuwait Investment Authority, with assets of about $250 billion, has also been accumulating cash. The fund's director, Bader al-Saad, told bankers in New York last week that he had no interest in buying distressed financial companies.
 That means the cash-hungry American and British governments, which together plan to borrow about $800 billion to invest in flailing banks, will have fewer options. About all that can be expected of the cash-rich wealth funds, analysts said, is that they will lend some money to the American government on a short-term basis because they can count on it to be paid back.
 ''Sovereign funds are piling up cash because there has not been a big reward of putting your money to work,'' said Brad W. Setser, an international finance analyst at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''But what I find to be more worrisome is a complete unwillingness on the part of sovereigns to hold anything else but supersafe Treasury bills.''
 That sovereign funds appear to have the same buyers' fright as the portfolio manager of a mutual fund should not necessarily be a surprise, given their aversion to assets with even the slightest risk. But with their longer-term investment horizons, the funds were expected to be more willing to ride out the stomach-churning ups-and-downs of the market.
 The plunge in the value of oil, along with fears that the global economic downturn is likely to be deeper and longer-lasting than expected, has probably been the most significant factor in changing that thinking.
 Mr. Setser points to data showing a spike in the holdings of Treasury bills by foreign institutions since the credit downturn began about 15 months ago. At the same time, the funds have reduced their purchases of riskier securities, like the equities and bonds issued by corporations and the mortgage lending giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 In the 12-month period that ended in July, the net purchase by foreigners of American long-term securities almost halved -- to $456 billion for the period ended in July, from $751 billion in the year to July 2007.
 Both Kuwait and Abu Dhabi, which has a mandate to invest overseas, were early buyers of big Wall Street financial firms. Abu Dhabi invested in Citigroup and Kuwait purchased a stake in Merrill Lynch and a subsequent position in Citigroup.
 The investment returns have been poor -- Citi closed at $15.75 Monday, down from $31 when Abu Dhabi invested. What is worse, economic troubles are now cropping up closer to home.
 In Kuwait, the stock exchange has stumbled badly, prompting its sovereign fund to promise to invest $1 billion to prop it up. 
 As for Abu Dhabi, it may become distracted by a slowdown in Dubai, its neighboring emirate. Dubai has attracted global renown for its debt-fueled development boom, which was undertaken through heavy reliance on now-stricken international loan markets. Unlike Abu Dhabi, Dubai does not sit on a large oil reserve.
 This week Moody's released a report in which it estimated Dubai's liabilities to be about $46 billion, the size of its gross domestic product. With many ambitious development projects depending on rising property prices, the combination of a price correction and an inability to borrow could lead to problems similar to those plaguing the American and British economies.
 ''Cumulative liabilities are currently rising faster than investments are able to generate returns,'' said Philipp Lotter, a Moody's analyst and co-author of the report.
 While the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority's international orientation makes a bailout of Dubai less feasible, analysts say that Dubai's difficulties and lower oil prices will slow what had been a growing flow of petrodollars to Western stock and bond markets.
 Indeed, Gulf Arab states took emergency measures to support their financial systems Sunday. These included a rare cut by Saudi Arabia in its benchmark lending rate and a vow by the United Arab Emirates to protect national banks and guarantee deposits.
 More starkly, the Qatar Investment Authority, the sovereign fund for Qatar, committed $5.3 billion on Monday to buying stakes of 10 to 20 percent in the country's banks.
 Gulf stock markets have been falling for weeks now, driven lower mostly by the decline in oil prices.
 Wealth funds outside the Middle East are facing similar pressures.
 The $5 trillion explosion in global dollar reserves during this decade was driven by an export boom in Asian countries including China, South Korea and India, which relied largely on satisfying consumer demand in the United States and Europe. As a recession takes hold, demand will flag and foreign institutions in these counties are likely to be more concerned with using their surpluses to stimulate their own economies, analysts say.
 In recent months, many troubled financial firms made the pilgrimage from Abu Dhabi to Singapore in search of an investment lifeline. They went home empty-handed.
 ''These funds are risk-averse like others are now,'' said Edwin Truman, a long-time observer of global finance at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''Because of the attention paid to them in the past two years, they may be even more so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bader al-Saad, director of the Kuwait Investment Authority. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROL T. POWERS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Some national funds are investing closer to home. The Kuwait sovereign fund, with assets of $250 billion, has promised to invest $1 billion in the Kuwait Stock Exchange, shown above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAED QUTENA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (60%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (60%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



555 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: Commodity Prices Tumble

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
The global financial panic and the economic slowdown have put at least a temporary end to the commodity bull market of the last seven years, sending prices tumbling for many of the raw ingredients of the world economy.
 Since the spring and early summer, when prices for many commodities peaked amid fears of permanent shortage, wheat and corn -- two cereals at the base of the human food chain -- have dropped more than 40 percent. Oil has dropped 44 percent. Metals like aluminum, copper and nickel have declined by a third or more.
 The swift turnaround is the brightest economic news on the horizon for consumers, putting money into their pockets at a time they need it badly. Gasoline prices in the United States are falling precipitously -- by about 24 cents over the last five days, to a national average of $3.21 a gallon on Monday -- and analysts said they could go below $3 a gallon nationally this fall, down from a high of $4.11 a gallon in July. 
 Prices for most commodities remain elevated by past standards, and they rose a bit on Monday amid the broad market rally. But the trend seems to be downward as traders weigh the prospect that the global economic crisis will lead to sharp drops in demand. The big question is whether prices will drop all the way to long-term norms or whether Asia's continuing economic boom has set a floor.
 The rapid commodity decline has eased fears of inflation, a reason central banks were able to lower interest rates around the world last week in an effort to salvage economic growth. It also represents a fundamental shift of view that is driving markets these days.
 A scant few months ago, Americans were seen as participants in a bidding war with the emerging Chinese, Indian, Russian and Brazilian middle classes for a basket full of products. But that was before an extreme slowdown in demand for things as diverse as gasoline and aluminum and the retreat of investment money from commodity futures into safer havens like government bonds. 
 The commodity bust began before last week's broad market declines, though the panic has exacerbated the pressure on commodities. Oil dropped by 10 percent on Friday alone, but then recovered some of that loss Monday to settle at $81.19 a barrel, far below its high in July of $145.29.
 ''Commodities followed the euphoria cycle that we had along with housing,'' said Robert J. Shiller, an economist at Yale who specializes in market bubbles. ''We had the idea that the world is growing very fast, people are getting very rich and, by the way, we are running out of everything. That theory doesn't seem so good when the economy is collapsing.''
 Some analysts, while welcoming the recent declines, say they believe that prices are likely to remain above long-term norms. Food, in particular, could be a continuing problem: today's prices are still too high to allow many people in developing countries to afford adequate diets. Nor have the recent declines been passed along in American grocery stores, at least as of yet. The United Nations has projected that global food prices will remain elevated for years.
 The price increases of recent years served their economic function, calling forth additional supplies of many commodities -- farmers planted every acre they could, mining companies opened new mines and oil companies went to the far corners of the earth to drill wells. In many cases, the prices also caused demand to decline even as supply started rising.
 Americans, the world's largest fuel consumers, have been cutting back on gasoline all year, and the decline is approaching double digits. Motorists pumped 9.5 percent less gasoline for the week ended Oct. 3 compared with the same week a year earlier, according to MasterCard Advisors, which tracks spending. In a report on Friday, the International Energy Agency cut its forecast for global oil consumption yet again, projecting that 2008 would end with the slowest demand growth in 15 years. 
 Big increases in world wheat production because of increased acreage in the United States, Canada, Russia and much of Europe have brought wheat prices to less than $6 a bushel today from nearly $13 in March. 
 Soybean prices have dropped to $9 a bushel from $16 since July, in part because of a record crop in China and a slowdown in Chinese imports. Corn prices are also easing amid expanded supply.
 A theory among economists is that commodity prices are still at the beginning of a steep fall as the credit squeeze takes the world economy into a deep recession. 
 ''When you have a seven-year bull run, you are going to have more than a four-month correction, and we are just beginning our fourth month,'' said Richard Feltes, senior vice president and director of commodity research at MF Global Research. ''We have got more deflation coming in the housing sector, in capital assets, and it's going to continue in commodities as well.'' 
 But many economists say a lasting price collapse is unlikely because the emerging middle class and growing populations in developing economies will continue to have strong appetites for fuels and metals. 
 Some say that the other commodity bull markets in modern history -- approximately spanning 1906 to 1923, 1933 to 1955 and 1968 to 1982 -- lasted more than twice as long as the current run. They included some sharp corrections before they ran their course, suggesting that the current drop, however precipitous, could be temporary. 
 Though the picture is slightly different for every commodity, prices generally hit a low point for the decade soon after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, then rose as the global economy strengthened in the following years. From late 2001 until mid-2008, the price of oil rose 800 percent, copper rose 700 percent and wheat rose 400 percent.
 The decline of recent weeks has taken virtually every major commodity more than halfway back to its late 2001 price, adjusted for inflation. The recent drop has been so rapid that if the pace continued, it would take only a few more weeks to erase the gains of the bull market entirely.
 That suggests to some analysts that prices could hit a floor fairly soon. ''The underlying fundamentals of strong demand for energy, food and industrial commodities will come back,'' said Michael Lewis, global head of commodities research for Deutsche Bank.
 Many analysts think oil could fall to $70 a barrel in the next few months, if not sooner. But it is hard for them to believe it will go much lower: oil is not becoming easier to find, as fields in Mexico peter out and suppliers like Iran, Nigeria and Venezuela remain unreliable.
 The costs of finding oil in deep waters or mining oil sands in Canada remain high, in the $60 to $70 a barrel range -- and since those are now vital sources of supply, they could help put a floor under the oil price. Additionally, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries could cut production to try to shore up prices, probably at an emergency meeting it will hold Nov. 18. Analysts note that the credit crisis and economic slowdown will inevitably stall new industrial projects, reducing demand for metals. But the falling prices will also discourage new mining and drilling. When economic growth resumes, that could produce metal shortages that would drive prices back up.
 The biggest single factor that will decide whether a prolonged bull market in commodities is over, or just in a lull, is the Chinese economy. The industrial development of that country in recent years was responsible for much of the world's increased consumption of copper, aluminum and zinc, and almost a third of the increase in oil consumption. 
 Chinese growth has slowed but isstill running above 12 percent, and that country is expected to undertake some huge projects in coming months as it repairs damage from earthquakes and storms.
 Kevin Norrish, a senior commodities researcher at Barclays Capital, said that in a recent visit to China he found that domestic demand for copper was still strong but that exports were weakening. Chinese copper wire manufacturers, he said, ''are very depressed indeed because their export orders have fallen a long way.'' 
 He said that as high as prices for commodities rose in recent years, the bull run in the late 1970s and early 1980s was even more buoyant. Of all the major commodities, only oil at its peak in July traded at a higher price than in the last bull market, adjusted for inflation. 
 That previous bull run, stimulated by years of high economic growth and inflation, was followed by nearly two decades of weak prices that accompanied the transition in the United States from an industrial to a service economy. Then China and India appeared on the world stage as major economies at the turn of the new century, followed by the oil-driven economy in Russia and greater consumption in the Middle East the last four or five years. Mr. Norrish is one of many commodities analysts who think that the story of China, India and other developing countries' spurring commodity demand is not over.
 ''What we are seeing is a pause in what we see as a very, very long bull run,'' Mr. Norrish said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gas prices in the United States have fallen by about 24 cents in the last five days, to a national average of $3.21 a gallon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX Di SUVERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
A copper smelter in China. An analyst said that demand for copper in China was strong but that exports were weakening. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATALIE BEHRING/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B9) CHARTS: Commodity Price Cycles: Although commodity prices have fallen far from their recent peaks, they have not reached the long-term norms at which they were trading since the big spikes of the 1970s and 1980s. (Sources: Federal Reserve
Energy Information Administration
Bloomberg
 Commodities Research Bureau)(B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); TRENDS (74%); FUTURES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); BONDS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



556 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Upgrading the Stress Levels

BYLINE: By PAUL BURNHAM FINNEY

 BODY:
EDITORS' NOTE APPENDED
As if the shoes-off routine, charges for checked bags and missed flight connections were not enough, business travelers now have to cope with a global financial crisis that is diverting their attention as well as rattling their contacts here and abroad.
It all adds up to a spike in the unusual stresses that plague business travel, from unfamiliar hotels to sudden switches in travel plans. Experts at the Mayo Clinic and Harvard Medical School along with independent psychologists agree that road life now is more stressful than in the past. 
''Back in the 1980s, you could drive to the airport and walk to the gate without thinking of terrorist threats or banks collapsing,'' said Rex P. Gatto, a business psychologist based in Pittsburgh. ''Now there's only anxiety.''
In its latest annual ''Stress in America'' survey, based on 2,507 online interviews in September, the American Psychological Association found that economic factors were the No. 1 cause of anxiety.
Researchers have uncovered links between stress and dozens of physical ailments, including some cancers and heart disease. A landmark study of some 10,800 employees at the World Bank in 1997 found that those who traveled accounted for 80 percent more medical claims than nontravelers.
In the current economic turmoil, Nancy Molitor, a psychologist in Wilmette, Ill., an affluent Chicago suburb, said that many more of her clients had problems related to stress. ''In my 20 years of practice I've never seen such anxiety among my patients,'' she said.
The globalization of business had already added to the stresses of business travel.
''When you travel in another country with another culture and try to get multitask projects done to meet deadlines, you can feel overwhelmed,'' said Dr. Abinash Virk, director of the Mayo Clinic's travel program.
Several of the experts said technological advances might be adding to the troubles. ''Technology is not the best friend of business travelers,'' Mr. Gatto said. ''Getting e-mails all day. Doing a deal on your cellphone while trying to beat the long lines at an airport. Frequent fliers just take on too much.''
Dr. Mary FitzPatrick, associate professor at Weill Cornell Medical College in New York, said she believed ''the Internet keeps people in touch more than they should,'' adding: ''And there's the CNN phenomenon -- a constant, 24-hour barrage of disturbing news.''
Of course, stress is not all bad. It can make workers more productive and resourceful. The physiologist Hans Selye, called the father of stress research, identified ''good'' stress -- the adrenaline rush that helps people overcome obstacles -- and ''chronic'' stress, which may easily turn into distress.
Some travelers are better able to deal with the travails of business trips than others. Take a flight delay of several hours, for example.
''When the word comes over the loudspeaker, some passengers take it in stride -- watching TV, browsing the shops -- while others can't stop running up to the counter for the latest update,'' said Howard Glazer, associate attending psychologist at New York Presbyterian Hospital. ''There you have it -- two personality types dealing with the same event. One takes it as a small bump in the road while the other considers it exasperating.''
Stress, he added, ''clearly is in the eye of the beholder.''
Backstopped by many medical studies, cognitive behavior therapists are generally confident that there are effective ways for business travelers to handle stress.
One of the most popular treatments is the stress management system developed in the 1970s by Dr. Herbert Benson, director emeritus of the Benson-Henry Institute for Mind Body Medicine in Boston. His techniques for easing stress range from ''meditation on the go'' to deep breathing and massages, all described in the book ''The Relaxation Response.''
Dr. Virk, of the Mayo Clinic, said she favored taking time out each day to relax. ''Go for a walk,'' she said. ''Think about something unrelated to what you're doing on your business trip. Wherever you are -- here or in Cambodia -- exercise.''
''There are executives who travel a lot and can sleep four hours and still be calm,'' she said. ''Discipline is the key to coping with stress. Veteran travelers know how to break the daily mental process and look at things with a different perspective.''
Are some business travelers getting better at handling stress?
''You have to be,'' Dr. Virk replied. ''The world now is not how it was. Everything happens at a faster pace.''
Editors' Note: October 21, 2008, Tuesday
An article in the Itineraries pages last Tuesday reported about the increasing stress on business travelers, and cited the findings of ''Stress in America,'' an annual survey of the American Psychological Association. That survey found that economic factors were the leading causes of stress levels in 2008, but it did not say, as the article did, that ''the crisis on Wall Street was the No. 1 cause of anxiety,'' nor did participants in the survey say they felt most vulnerable to stress ''in the office and on a business trip.''
The survey included data from Sept. 19 to Sept. 23, 2008, a period of volatility on Wall Street, but none of the questions in the association's survey referred to Wall Street or any economic crises. Participants were not asked how business travel affected their stress levels or where they felt most vulnerable to stress. The author of the article distorted the survey's findings to fit his theme, contrary to The Times's standards of integrity.
The article also quoted incorrectly from a comment by Nancy Molitor, a psychologist in Wilmette, Ill., who told the author that, ''In my 20 years of practice I've never seen such anxiety among my patients,'' not ''among my banking and business patients.'' While Dr. Molitor does have patients in banking and business, she did not single them out as being more anxious than her other patients.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Removing shoes at security checks is a small stress for travelers. The financial crisis may be a bigger one. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); CANCER (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); HEART DISEASE (66%); TERRORISM (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (57%); AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



557 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: In N.L.C.S., Paths Cross Again

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
When Ryan Howard, the Phillies' menacing slugger, sauntered into the batter's box last Friday in Philadelphia, the Dodgers rookie reliever James McDonald did not flinch. He did not show any nerves when Jimmy Rollins or Pat Burrell strode to the plate.
 But when Chase Utley grabbed his bat and dug in, McDonald, a right-hander who made his major league debut last month, took a deep breath and steadied himself. He might as well have been looking at Babe Ruth. 
 ''I remember standing on the mound telling myself the guy I idolized is sitting right here in front of me,'' McDonald said Saturday. ''And now I've got to pitch against him? I was a little nervous.''
 Actually, McDonald and Utley had never met; their brief engagement in Game 2 of the National League Championship Series is as close as they have come. But there is a link that goes back years. 
 Utley, the son of a personal-injury lawyer, was born with a natural swing, was raised in an old-money neighborhood and has grown into a bona fide star as he approaches his 30th birthday. The Phillies lavished an $86 million contract on him last year, making him the major leagues' highest-paid second baseman.
 McDonald, 23, was raised in an extended family of professional athletes, grew up in a gritty urban neighborhood and only recently figured out where he fits best on a baseball diamond. Any riches that come his way would be welcome. He still lives at home.
 For Utley and McDonald, the bridge across this social, economic, professional and cultural divide is the high school they attended, Long Beach Polytechnic.
 They are not alone. 
 Poly High is more like a polyglot, where a mix of black, white, Latino, Asian and Pacific Islander students from across the socioeconomic spectrum embrace the mantra ''Home of Scholars and Champions'' that adorns the front of the campus. 
 The school, its exterior painted an industrial shade of beige and closed off with rod-iron gates, does not appear out of place in its central Long Beach neighborhood, where bars on windows are part of the architecture.
 Inside the walls is another world.
 Poly's magnet programs draw some of the district's best and brightest students, and the school often leads the state in students admitted into the University of California system. The football team, which has sent more players to the N.F.L. than any other program, headlines a strong athletic program.
 It s a place where book smarts and street smarts share the same hallway. And a place that has not changed measurably in 20 years, when leading cheers for the football team (which had a backup named Calvin Broadus, a k a Snoop Dogg) was a cheerleader named Cameron Diaz.
 ''You can find kids that come from the poorest neighborhoods, but you have a kid in your class whose dad is a millionaire,'' McDonald said. ''At Poly, you experience every race. It's not a culture shock when you get out in the world and go places.''
 One thing Poly is not is a baseball factory, at least not in recent decades. Since 1988, Poly has had 17 former football players drafted by the N.F.L. -- more than some colleges. Its boys and girls basketball, track and cross-country teams are among the best in the region, too.
 As for baseball, Poly has produced several major leaguers, including the Hall of Fame outfielder Tony Gwynn. But it has lagged behind most of the other five public high schools in Long Beach, which has a rich baseball history. 
 When Poly rode McDonald's pitching to the section semifinals in 2002, it was the furthest the school had advanced since 1968. Even with Utley and Milton Bradley -- two major league All-Stars this season -- on the same team for two years, Poly was unable to take one of its league's three playoff berths.
 ''The football program ruled the city,'' Utley said. ''Obviously, the baseball program wasn't the best in the city. I wouldn't consider us second-class citizens, but we didn't get the attention the football team got.''
 Utley said he never considered taking advantage of Long Beach's open-enrollment policy to attend one of the schools on the east side, whose teams are fed by strong youth programs. Many of his friends were going to Poly, so he wanted to as well.
 For McDonald, the choice was even more personal.
 His father, James Sr., was a basketball star at Poly, earning a scholarship to Southern California and then parlaying his athletic ability into a stint as a tight end with the Los Angeles Rams. His uncle Ben McDonald played basketball at California-Irvine and then in the N.B.A. for four years. Another uncle, Donzell McDonald, played in the Pittsburgh Pirates' minor league system.
 ''When I first got there, everybody would say, 'Oh, you're Big James's son, I'll keep my eye on you,' '' McDonald said.
 Last Friday, when Utley stepped in against McDonald, Bobby Darwin was among those watching intently. 
 It was upon the recommendation of Darwin, a longtime scout, that the Dodgers drafted both players -- Utley with their second-round pick in 1997 and McDonald with their 11th-round choice in 2002. Utley, who weighed barely 160 pounds, opened many eyes his senior season when he began ripping balls out of Blair Field, a municipal stadium with major league dimensions and heavy ocean air. 
 ''He had the best left-handed swing I've ever seen on a high school kid,'' said Bill Powell, who coached youth baseball in Long Beach for four decades and was at Poly for Utley's senior season. ''That includes Mr. Gwynn.''
 Utley gave the Dodgers every indication he would bypass college, so they spent their first draft pick, the 76th over all, on him. But Utley had second thoughts, and he ultimately opted for U.C.L.A. Three years later, the Phillies chose him 15th over all.
 ''All I can say is we should have signed him,'' Darwin said. ''Every time I see him, my heart just drops.''
 Darwin cheers up when the discussion turns toward McDonald. ''He was long, lean, with big hands and a great arm,'' said Darwin, thinking back to when they first met. ''He had the perfect pitcher's body.''
 But McDonald did not pitch until the end of his junior season at Poly. The Dodgers drafted him the next year, but he attended a junior college for one year, then signed. And he then spent most of the next two seasons in the outfield with a sore arm. 
 ''I was always thinking about pitching when I was in the outfield,'' McDonald said. ''I loved pitching and realized that's where I wanted to be.''
 McDonald, who was called up in September, said he was stunned when he was added to the playoff roster. But in nine and one-third innings in the regular season and postseason combined, he had yet to allow a run through Sunday. Against the Phillies, he pitched three and one-third innings of two-hit relief, striking out five. As for Utley, McDonald walked him. 
 ''I didn't want to let him get a hit,'' said McDonald, considering their shared footsteps. ''If we ever do meet, I don't want him to having bragging rights on Long Beach.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James McDonald, an alumnus of Long Beach Polytechnic High, made his big-league debut for the Dodgers last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LISA BLUMENFELD/GETTY IMAGES)
 Chase Utley, the Phillies' All-Star second baseman, shared the high school field with outfielder Milton Bradley for two years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE JACOBSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (65%); PERSONAL INJURY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (93%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (91%)

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



558 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; THE LONG COUNTDOWN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2556 words

HEADLINE: For U.S. Astronauts, a Russian Second Home

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
STAR CITY, Russia -- Garrett Reisman was on his way to this formerly secret military base for several weeks of training, making his way through Kennedy Airport, when his cellphone rang. It was his boss, Steven W. Lindsey, the head of NASA's astronaut office.
''Come back to Houston. They've canceled your training -- they're playing hardball,'' Mr. Reisman recalled his boss saying. He was caught in a momentarily important dispute between NASA and the Russian space agency, Roscosmos.
Ultimately, Mr. Reisman's aborted trip was just a bump in the road on the way to space: he spent three months aboard the International Space Station earlier this year, performed a spacewalk and even traded jokes over a video link with Stephen Colbert.
Everyone who works with the Russian space program has similar stories to tell of implacable bureaucrats, byzantine rules and decisions that seem capricious at best. And many of those stories are played out here in Star City, where cosmonauts and, now, astronauts from all over the world train to fly on Russian Soyuz spacecraft to go to the $100 billion International Space Station. 
Star City has become an important second home for Americans working with their Russian counterparts, and it is about to become more important still. During the five-year gap after NASA shuts down the space shuttle program in 2010 and the next generation of spacecraft makes its debut by 2015, Russia will have the only ride for humans to the station.
The gap, which was planned by the Bush administration to create the next generation of American spacecraft without significantly increasing NASA's budget, is controversial. But it is also all but inevitable, because much of the work to shut down the shuttles is under way, and the path to the new Constellation craft would be hard to compress even with additional financing.
Those who work side by side with their Russian counterparts say that strong relationships and mutual respect have resulted from the many years of collaboration. And they say that whatever the broader geopolitical concerns about relying on Russia for space transportation during the five years when the United States cannot get to the space station on its own rockets, they believe that the multinational partnership that built the station will hold.
''It's an amazing political achievement,'' Mr. Reisman said. ''We've gone through so many different administrations,'' not just in the United States and Russia, but in the dozen other nations that have taken part in building the orbiting laboratory. ''It survived all of that,'' he said. ''It's held together, and it's only strengthened over time as we've learned to work together.''
To understand why people like Mr. Reisman believe the next 7 years can work, it is important to understand the previous 15, when the United States and Russia joined forces, first putting Americans aboard the Russian Mir space station and then building the International Space Station together. That joining of forces occurred here, at Star City. And in some ways, it did not have an auspicious start.
In the earliest days of the partnership, in the mid-1990s, after the Soviet Union had crumbled and the new Russia was struggling to be born, scarcity of supplies meant real hunger. ''There was no food on the shelves at all,'' said Dr. Michael Barratt, who worked among the first crews to prepare astronauts who would serve aboard the Mir. ''Five nights out of seven, we had rice and beans.'' John McBrine, the current director of American operations at Star City, lost 30 pounds during his first stint, from July to October of 1994.
Those early days were also marked by wariness and distrust, and the first Americans had a strong impression they were being watched. Mark Bowman, an early contract employee in Russia who is now back in Moscow as deputy director of NASA's human space flight program in Russia, recalled a weekly teleconference with his boss in Houston. ''Thirty minutes into the call the line would go dead,'' Mr. Bowman said. ''And that would happen every 30 minutes.''
One day during the teleconference, Mr. Bowman warned 28 minutes in that the line was about to go dead and said testily, ''I sure wish these damned KGB guys would get longer tapes.''
''The next telecon we had,'' Mr. Bowman recalled, ''I swear to you, it went 45 minutes and then it went dead.'' Apparently, he said, his hosts had upgraded to 90-minute cassettes.
Energia, the spacecraft manufacturing company near the Mission Control Center in Korolev, near Moscow, would not let the Americans enter its facilities. Instead, Energia rented part of a nearby engineering college to prepare American hardware for the station. ''The heat didn't work,'' Mr. Bowman said, and the winter of 1994-95 was particularly bitter, he said, with temperatures that reached minus-30 degrees. The workers wore gloves and parkas indoors. Delicate biological experiments designed for use inside the climate-controlled station froze and had to be replaced.
Energia ultimately put a heating unit into the Americans' office: workers wrapped a wire made from a heat-resistant alloy, nichrome, around an asbestos-covered pipe and plugged it into the wall outlet. The exposed wire was doubly dangerous, Mr. Bowman recalled: brush up against it, and ''you'd get a zap and a burn at the same time.'' The glow was warning enough; no one touched it.
Beyond the lack of creature comforts, the high level of secrecy in the Russian program troubled Americans even more deeply. The Russians did not fully explain in June 1997, for example, how risky an attempted manual docking with a cargo vehicle would be for the Mir and its crew. When the rendezvous resulted in a collision that endangered the lives of two cosmonauts and Michael Foale, the American astronaut aboard the rickety station at the time, the Americans were largely in the dark.
The next seven years look brighter, and warmer. ''Things have improved so much since then,'' Mr. Bowman said. The Russian system has become more open, and the level of personal comfort and convenience has improved greatly.
Instead of the unreliable telephone service of the old days, Mr. Bowman's digital phone system can be reached as if it were a local phone on the NASA network. ''It's just as if I was at the Johnson Space Center,'' he said.
The American offices at Star City are in a building known as the Prophy, for Prophylactorium, where cosmonauts lived in quarantine before flights. Today it is called the Apollo-Soyuz Hotel, in honor of the historic rendezvous. At least the Americans call it that, Mr. McBrine said; the Russians, he said, ''call it the Soyuz-Apollo Hotel.''
NASA rents the second floor, dull offices with wood paneling and greenish fluorescent lighting. ''We're not very aesthetic here,'' said Mr. McBrine, apologetically. Here translators interpret the voluminous course materials for the astronauts -- who learn Russian and take their classes in the language -- and administrative assistants schedule the vans that ferry visitors from the airports to Star City and into Moscow.
All told, 7 NASA civil servants, 9 American contractors and 55 Russian contractors are working in Russia for the American space agency. A steady stream of astronauts, flight controllers, doctors, scientists, engineers and officials cycles through -- and many of them want to be taken to see the sights and restaurants of Moscow.
''It's a work hard, play hard environment,'' Mr. McBrine said, but he added that the play used to be much harder. Tales of excess from the early days of the American-Russian partnership are legendary; many involve the Russian hosts urging their guests into epic rounds of vodka toasts. Over time, Mr. McBrine said, ''The novelty has kind of worn off.'' Instead of testing one another's ability to handle alcohol, he said, ''we've become colleagues and great friends. There's none of that pressure anymore.''
Many of the Americans live in a set of duplexes at Star City that look a little like suburban condominiums that have been dropped, seemingly, from space into this Soviet landscape of brick buildings, fences and barriers. They were designed and built to United States standards so that visitors could, for example, plug their laptops into the wall without having to dig around for an adapter.
Mr. McBrine and his staff work at building a sense of community. Each day starts in Mr. McBrine's cottage with a gathering around a large coffeepot for Americans who are working long term or just passing through. Regular potluck dinners are an even larger part of fighting the sense of isolation. On any given evening, Mr. McBrine's dining room might be crowded with American astronauts, NASA staff members, Russian cosmonauts, spacefarers from agencies in Japan and Europe, or the occasional multimillionaire space tourist.
At a typical dinner in April, two astronauts, Dr. Barratt and Cmdr. Scott J. Kelly, were bantering about food. Dr. Barratt had earned raves for a homemade Thai peanut chicken dish with a surprisingly hearty burn and excellent smoked salmon from Pike Place Fish Market in Seattle. Commander Kelly, taking a more Jersey Guy perspective, extolled the virtues of Jimmy Buffs, a restaurant in West Orange where the hot dogs are loaded with onions, peppers and potatoes. ''Heart attack on a plate!'' he said with pride.
Downstairs, Shep's Bar waited for them. It is a dim basement room down a flight of rough wooden steps, with a few couches and chairs, a big-screen television, a pool table and tired bar decorations. Duck through a low rectangular hole in one of the room's walls and there is the gym, full of American-made treadmills and other exercise machines.
''Shep'' is William Shepherd, the first commander of the International Space Station, who set the place up with private donations. Mr. McBrine lauds the gathering spot as ''our own little Americana,'' a homey place in an isolated location.
These days, Shep's is a sensitive subject. NASA is still stinging from a report in 2007 that suggested astronauts may have flown while drunk. The report referred to two incidents in anonymous accusations from flight surgeons, and no one was found to have actually piloted a shuttle while drunk. And nothing in the report had anything to do with Shep's Bar. But the late-night jokes and editorial cartoons created an image of a space agency packed with boozers, and workers like Mr. McBrine remain a bit sensitive about reinforcing that impression by talking about their modest clubhouse.
''You know what we do in Shep's Bar more than just about anything else?'' he asked. ''Just watch movies.''
''We should really change the name to Shep's Theater,'' he said.
Whatever it should be called, Mr. McBrine said, it is a comfortable place to grab a beer and kick back on a slow night. ''Or a Coke,'' Mr. McBrine said, a little nervously. ''Or a lemonade.''
Significant cultural differences remain between the Russians and Americans here. For example, working side by side with the Russians, the Americans say, has helped them understand the nations' approaches to safety.
Dr. Barratt said that when he first walked the grounds of Star City, he was surprised by how uneven the sidewalks were. At NASA, he said, ''there'd be big red placards'' warning people to watch their step. And if someone did fall, a lawsuit would soon follow. In Russia, he said, people simply watch their step.
The underlying point, said Mark Thiessen, the deputy to Mr. McBrine, is that ''Russians accept risk.'' Americans try ''to eliminate risk instead of minimize it.'' The American approach is laudable, he said, but not always possible, and Americans end up more cautious than Russians. ''No one is willing to say, 'I accept this risk,' '' he said.
Many who write about the Russian space program focus on the impression of creaky age that the program can give -- the abandoned buildings and rust at the launching site in Baikonur, Kazakhstan, and the fact that the basic design of the Soyuz spacecraft has not changed in some 40 years.
But American experts suggest that the Russians' disregard for cosmetic perfection and development is immaterial, and that the age of the design shows a conservative approach to the risks of space travel that has served them well. ''They spend their money where they have to,'' said Philip Cleary, a former director of NASA's human space flight program in Russia. ''They're not so much worried about splashing a new coat of paint on a building if it's not required.''
The Americans insist that, appearances aside, the Russians take safety every bit as seriously as they do. The result, several astronauts said, is that they have confidence in the Soyuz, which is as sturdy and dependable as a Kalashnikov rifle.
''Its inherent design is very robust,'' said Edward T. Lu, an astronaut who lived aboard the station in 2003 and now works for Google. He has flown to the space station and returned on a Soyuz, and he brought up two recent Soyuz re-entries, in which the capsule malfunctioned and tumbled back to Earth in a steep ''ballistic'' path that subjected those inside to G-forces higher than usual. The astronauts were safe, however, because of the simplicity and strength of the Soyuz design.
As Capt. Mark E. Kelly, an astronaut and the twin brother of Scott Kelly, put it, ''You could throw that thing into the atmosphere like a rock,'' with its orientation ''sideways and backwards,'' and ''as long as the parachute opens, the crew is probably going to live. You can't do that with the shuttle, as everybody knows.''
But the shuttle will soon be out of the picture. Those who are most familiar with the nations' joint efforts in space say that the controversial pause between American flights can go smoothly, if the politicians would only stay out of the way.
The Americans say they have learned a great deal about getting things done in Russia. They know that the first answer to any request is likely to be no, but that negotiations can often bring things around to yes. Getting to know the people you deal with is more important than the rules. ''No agreement is better than your relationship,'' Dr. Barratt said.
And none of them questions the dedication of the Russian counterparts. At the worst of the Soviet economic crisis, Dr. Barratt said, workers ''were told to go on vacation'' for a couple of months so they would not have to be paid. ''They showed up at work the next day,'' he recalled.
Michael Foale, who has lived aboard both the Mir and the International Space Station, said, ''Russia has always seen the United States as both Enemy No. 1 and Partner No. 1.'' The leaders take a very long view, he said, and ''they do not play chess badly.''
The most important thing to ensure future cooperation, Dr. Foale said, is to firm up a strategy for international cooperation in getting to the Moon, so that Russia will have a stake in the partnership and the outcome. ''We only have to hint at a strategy, and I don't think we'll have a problem,'' he said. ''But we have to have a strategy.''
The American workers at Star City say that on a personal level, geopolitics simply do not matter. Mr. Thiessen said that when such issues came up in conversation with his Russian counterparts, they would say: ''That's politics. Let the government worry about the government. We're engineers. Let's solve this problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOSSED IN SPACE: Top, a centrifuge creates high g-forces. Above, from left: monitoring a mock flight, getting into space suits, the interior of a Soyuz mockup and airlock practice. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
SUITING UP: Col. Michael Fincke, left, an American astronaut, and Cosmonaut Yuri Lonchakov putting on temperature-regulating undersuits before training in Orlan space suits at Star City. Below, space suit gloves at the ready. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D4) DRAWING: The Soyuz Spacecraft: The basic design of the Russian Soyuz spacecraft has not changed in some 40 years, though it has had numerous technical and safety upgrades. The current version, known as Soyuz TMA, is expected to be the only means of taking astronauts to the International Space Station from 2010 to 2015. (DRAWING BY JONATHAN CORUM AND GRAHAM ROBERTS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(Sources: NASA
Roscosmos
Starsem
 European Space Agency) (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE STATIONS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); SPACE INDUSTRY (70%); BUDGETS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY (59%)

PERSON: STEPHEN COLBERT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



559 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Capitalizing on Consumer Anxiety, One Halloween Deal at a Time

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
TO help peddle products for Halloween, Madison Avenue has found something scarier than ghosts, ghouls or goblins: the economy.
 Typically, marketers trying to sell Halloween candy, costumes, movies or merchandise festoon their advertisements with images of bats, skeletons, monsters and other creatures. That approach has become increasingly popular as Halloween grows in its appeal as a celebration for adults as well as children.
 But for millions of Americans, the credit crisis and the stock market turmoil have taken more of a toll on their lives than any werewolf, warlock or witch. So ads for Halloween 2008 are focused more on frugality than fright. 
 ''Get hauntingly great savings on Halloween candy, decor and novelties,'' proclaim circulars for the Rite Aid chain of drugstores. Other ads also borrow from the usual Halloween cliches, but add in the retailers' own gimmicks.
 ''No tricks, only treats,'' promise ads for Pulte Homes, which offers ''monster savings'' like a free year's membership to the local homeowners' association if a contract is submitted by Halloween.
 ''The real trick?'' ask ads for Wal-Mart that depict children who are trick-or-treating. The answer, according to the ads, is ''saving money on all their favorite treats.''
 Several marketers are particularly keen on alliteration. The Walgreen drugstore chain assures shoppers they will find ''scary savings'' on Wyeth brands like Advil, Centrum and Robitussin.
 Papa John's, the pizza chain, is promoting ''spooky specials'' along with ''deals so good they're scary.''
 ''Halloween is a huge day for Papa John's, and having it fall on a Friday is a double benefit,'' said Jim Ensign, vice president for marketing communications at Papa John's International in Louisville, Ky., ''because we know there will be a lot of big parties.''
 At the same time, ''we certainly are seeing our consumer feel the same pressure everyone's feeling'' because of the economy, Mr. Ensign said, so the chain wants ''to present a good value for the consumer, especially right now, at a time when people are counting every penny.'' 
 Visa USA is offering a similar pitch by sending e-mail messages to those signed up for the company's monthly e-mail newsletters, which offer discounts.
 ''Halloween savings so incredible,'' the subject line for the October issue reads, ''they're almost scary!'' The headline for the issue takes a similar tack: ''Don't be afraid to save this month.''
 The offers are ''along the lines of our regular promotions,'' Nancy Panter, a spokeswoman for Visa in San Francisco, said, with a goal of ''driving value for cardholders and merchants, which is especially important right now.'' 
 A main reason for the emphasis in Halloween ads on savings rather than spooks is data suggesting that shoppers have significantly cut spending for discretionary purchases like clothing, home furnishings, electronics and restaurant meals.
 In a survey by TNS Retail Forward, part of Taylor Nelson Sofres, 29 percent of respondents said they planned to cut back on spending for Halloween. That was higher than last year, when 21 percent said they would spend less, and 2006, when 17 percent expressed that sentiment.
 Last week, when Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer, reported its results for September in a news release, the company described sales for discretionary items as soft.
 In the next sentence of the release, Wal-Mart said that ''during October, customers will continue to find values on a full range of Halloween merchandise.''
 Wal-Mart has for months been playing up low prices for all types of merchandise in a campaign by the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The campaign -- which will continue for the crucial Christmas shopping season -- carries the theme ''Save money. Live better.''
 Of course, many marketers are still using ghouls and other things that go bump in the night to appeal to fright-loving consumers.
 For instance, two cable channels are bringing back horror-filled Halloween programming. Bravo will run shows like ''100 Scariest Movie Moments'' and ''Even Scarier Movie Moments'' as well as films like ''Bram Stoker's Dracula'' and ''The Exorcist.''
 And the Sci Fi Channel plans to offer 250 hours of movies, series, mini-series and programs this month under the banner ''31 Days of Halloween,'' compared with a mere ''13 Days'' the last couple of years. The lineup includes episodes of ''Ghost Hunters'' that will culminate with a ''Ghost Hunters Live'' show on Oct. 31.
 ''With the financial turmoil, people want to escape and think about something else,'' said Dave Howe, president of the channel. 
 ''So far, it's paying off,'' Mr. Howe said of the expansion of the Halloween programming on Sci Fi, with ''consistent year-on-year'' ratings increases.
 Major advertisers for the ''31 Days of Halloween'' include Electronic Arts, Esurance, Sears and Verizon Wireless. The advertisers like that the programs appeal to younger viewers, as well as women, Mr. Howe said.
 Campaigns for Halloween became increasingly fright-minded throughout the 1990s. For several Halloweens after 9/11, marketers toned down the gore in their ads. The scare tactics were brought back for more recent Halloweens. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Papa John's is among the companies using Halloween ads to focus on price as consumers cut their discretionary spending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN (93%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); CONFECTIONERY (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); RETAILERS (77%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (75%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (68%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (67%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (84%); PAPA JOHN'S INTERNATIONAL INC (83%); PULTEGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (84%); PZZA (NASDAQ) (83%); PHM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (83%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (56%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



560 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Professor and Columnist Wins Economics Nobel

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Paul Krugman, a professor at Princeton and an Op-Ed page columnist for The New York Times, was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science on Monday.
 The prize committee cited Mr. Krugman for his ''analysis of trade patterns and location of economic activity.'' 
 Mr. Krugman, 55, is probably more widely known for his Op-Ed columns in which he has been a perpetual thorn in President Bush's (and now John McCain's) side. His columns have won him both strong supporters and ardent critics. 
 The prize, however, was awarded for the academic -- and less political -- research that he conducted primarily before he began writing regularly for The Times. 
 ''To be absolutely, totally honest, I thought this day might come some day, but I was absolutely convinced it wasn't going to be this day,'' Mr. Krugman said in an interview on Monday. ''I know people who live their lives waiting for this call, and it's not good for the soul. So I put it out of my mind and stopped thinking about it.''
 Mr. Krugman won the prize for his research, beginning in 1979, that explained patterns of trade among countries, as well as what goods are produced where and why. 
 Traditional trade theory assumes that countries are different and will exchange only the kinds of goods that they are comparatively better at producing -- wine from France, for example, and rice from China.
 This model, however, dating from David Ricardo's writings of the early 19th century, was not reflected in the flow of goods and services that Mr. Krugman saw in the world around him. He set out to explain why worldwide trade was dominated by a few countries that were similar to one another, and why a country might import the same kinds of goods it exported.
 In his model, many companies sell similar goods with slight variations. These companies become more efficient at producing their goods as they sell more, and so they grow. Consumers like variety, and pick and choose goods from among these producers in different countries, enabling countries to continue exchanging similar products. So some Americans buy Volkswagens and some Germans buy Fords. 
 He developed this work further to explain the effect of transportation costs on why people live where they live. His model explained under what conditions trade would lead people or companies to move to a particular region or to move away.
 Mr. Krugman's work has been praised for its simplicity and practicality -- features economists are often criticized for ignoring. 
 ''Some people think that something deep only comes out of great complexity,'' said Maurice Obstfeld, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who wrote a textbook on international economics with Mr. Krugman. ''Paul's great strength is to take something very simple and make something new and very profound.'' 
 Mr. Krugman applied his skill at translating complex ideas into clear, entertaining prose to his Times columns, which he began writing in 2000. In recent years, in his column and a related blog on nytimes.com, nearly everything about the Bush administration -- from health care policy to Iraq to ''general incompetence'' -- has been the object of his scorn.
 Along the way, Mr. Krugman has come in for criticism himself from both economists and lay readers.
 ''Much of his popular work is disgraceful,'' said Daniel Klein, a professor of economics at George Mason University, who this year wrote a comprehensive review of Mr. Krugman's body of Times columns. ''He totally omits all these major issues where the economics conclusion goes against the feel-good Democratic Party ethos, which I think he's really tended to pander to especially since writing for The New York Times.''
 But he has equally fervent fans of his popular work.
 ''I praise today's prize as being deserving and even overdue, but more than that I reproach the Pulitzer committee, which owed him at least a couple of prizes in the past,'' said Paul A. Samuelson, a previous winner of the Nobel in economic science. ''Paul Krugman is the only columnist in the United States who has had it right on almost every count from the beginning.''
 Mr. Krugman said he did not expect his award to have much effect on how colleagues and his popular readership -- whether they be friends or foes -- regard him.
 ''For economists, this is a validation but not news,'' he said. ''We know what each other has been up to.'' 
 ''For readers of the column,'' he added, ''maybe they will read a little more carefully when I'm being economistic, or maybe have a little more tolerance when I'm being boring.'' 
 He said he did not expect the prize to silence his critics, given the treatment of another outspoken laureate, the 2001 winner Joseph E. Stiglitz. Mr. Stiglitz has been both praised and criticized for his writings on whether globalization in its current form has been beneficial.
 ''I haven't noticed him getting an easy time,'' Mr. Krugman said. ''People just say, 'Sure, he's a great Nobel laureate and he's very smart, but he still doesn't know what he's talking about in this situation.' I'm sure I'll get the same thing.''
 Mr. Krugman first gained a popular following while writing about economics for Slate magazine and Forbes in the 1990s. He frequently weighed in on contemporary free trade debates related to his research.
 ''He was appalled by the monster he created,'' said Michael Kinsley, the founding editor of Slate, who hired Mr. Krugman. ''He'd come up with this theory about why sometimes free trade wasn't the best policy, and suddenly everyone was citing it as an argument against free trade, while he thinks it applies once in a blue moon.'' 
 While Mr. Krugman's popular writing is now more focused on politics and his research more concentrated on international finance, he has occasionally returned to his interest in trade. In the last year he has written several times about the negative results of free trade, both in his column and in a paper he wrote for the Brookings Institution about whether trade with poor countries increases inequality in developed nations like the United States.
 In 1991 Mr. Krugman received the John Bates Clark medal, a prize given every two years to an economist under 40 who has made a significant contribution to economic knowledge. He follows a long list of Clark medal recipients who have gone on to win Nobels in economic science, including Mr. Stiglitz and Mr. Samuelson. 
 Mr. Krugman, who grew up on Long Island and has a bachelor's degree from Yale and a doctorate from M.I.T., has been teaching at Princeton since 2000. This semester, he is teaching a graduate-level course in international monetary theory and policy. He often teaches all-freshman seminars on issues related to economics. 
 Mr. Krugman joins another Princeton economist, albeit one of different ideological leanings, who has been in the news recently: Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve who, coincidentally, offered Mr. Krugman his Princeton post. Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Krugman were fellow graduate students at M.I.T. in the 1970s.
 Their era at M.I.T. produced several other economists who went on to prestigious careers in public policy, including Olivier Blanchard and Kenneth Rogoff, the current and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund. 
 Monday's award, the last of the six prizes, is not one of the original Nobels. It was created in 1968 by the Swedish central bank in Alfred Nobel's memory. Mr. Krugman was the sole winner of the award this year, which includes a prize of about $1.4 million. 
 Still, his collaborators and mentors in his international trade research -- some of whom were considered competing candidates for the prize -- extended their praise. 
 ''Lots of people are saying to me, 'Why didn't you get it?''' said Jagdish Bhagwati, an economics professor at Columbia who helped Mr. Krugman publish one of his seminal papers when other academics thought it was too simple to be true. ''Given the fact that I didn't get it, this is the next best thing.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the awarding of the Nobel in economic science to Paul Krugman, a Princeton professor and columnist for The New York Times, misidentified the magazine he wrote for in the 1990s. It was Fortune, not Forbes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul Krugman, after he knew. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Paul Krugman was recognized by the prize committee for his ''analysis of trade patterns and location of economic activity.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TEXTBOOKS (75%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



561 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2299 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: October 14, 2008

 BODY:
International
 PARAGUAY'S PEASANT FARMERS
 Invade Farms on Brazil Border
 You can read the signs. ''Get out, Brazilians,'' said one. ''Land or death,'' read another. Peasant farmers in Paraguay have been invading farms along the border with Brazil that they say are illegally occupied by Brazilian farmers. The farmers of Paraguay have been feeling braver since the election of a former Roman Catholic priest, Fernando Lugo, as president, a man who lived and worked in the area for 11 years and who they think is their best chance to win back land for cultivation. Page A6 
 BRITAIN BLOCKS DETENTION LAW
 Britain's House of Lords rejected a Labor government proposal that would have allowed the holding of terrorist suspects for 42 days without charging them. The vote was a setback for Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who had invested much in pushing the bill through the House of Commons in June. The country's current laws allow the detention of suspects for 28 days, which is still one of the longest periods of any country. Page A7 
 A CHALLENGE IN IRAN?
 Iran's former president, Mohammed Khatami, has been under pressure from political allies to enter next year's elections to challenge President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. In what looked like a harbinger of a return to the political arena, Mr. Khatami held an event that was attended by the former secretary general of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, among others. But Mr. Khatami dismissed the idea that the event had any connection to the election. Page A7 
 ISRAEL'S LEADING PARTIES SIGN PACT
 A draft coalition agreement was signed between the partners in Israel's outgoing government: the Kadima Party of Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni and the Labor Party of Defense Minister Ehud Barak. While both leaders have yet to sign the agreement, it was an important step in forming a new government, representatives of both parties said. If they sign, the last task will be to bring in the ultra-Orthodox Shas Party to gain a majority in Parliament. Page A9 
 SEARCHING FOR LOST IRAQIS
 An American platoon moving into Qahtaniya, Iraq, was greeted by dozens of people holding small notes, each with a name written on it and a request to find a missing relative or loved one. On Aug. 14, 2007, four truck bombs were set off by Sunni insurgents in the village in the largest coordinated bombing of the Iraq war. More than 313 people died and over 700 were wounded. Some were so close to the explosion there was no trace left, leaving relatives and friends to wonder. Page A8 
 Europe Suspends Travel Ban A9 
 National
 CONGRESSMAN SAID TO HAVE PAID
 Ex-Mistress to Avoid Being Sued
 Representative Tim Mahoney, a Florida Democrat whose predecessor resigned in the wake of a sex scandal, agreed to pay $121,000 to a former mistress who worked on his staff and was threatening to sue him, according to two Democratic staff members who were briefed on the settlement. Mr. Mahoney, while not denying the accusations, has called for an ethics investigation, saying the truth would vindicate him. PAGE A12 
 CALIFORNIA MARRIAGE LICENSES
 A group of California county clerks has asked the state to delay a plan to again put into effect the use of the words ''bride'' and ''groom'' on marriage licenses next month. The state had been using sex-neutral nomenclature of ''Party A'' and ''Party B'' since June, when a state Supreme Court decision legalizing same-sex marriage in California became official. PAGE A20 
 SPONSORING PRESIDENTIAL DEBATES
 At the final presidential debate on Wednesday night in Long Island, it seems unlikely that either candidate will take a can of Budweiser from behind his lectern, drink, smile and begin arguing that no other lager is as satisfying. Nevertheless, the fact that Anheuser-Busch and other corporations are sponsoring the presidential debates has left some campaign-finance watchdog groups concerned. PAGE A16 
 HEALTH CARE CAMPAIGN FUNDS
 After favoring Republicans by as much as 3 to 1 for more than a decade, pharmaceutical companies and others in the health care industry are now splitting their contributions evenly between the two major parties, campaign finance reports show. PAGE A18 
 'GREAT SCHLEP' OFF TO A SLOW START
 Last weekend was the first big test of the so-called Great Schlep. When Sarah Silverman told young Jews to go to Florida to persuade their grandparents to vote for Senator Barack Obama, one question loomed: Would they go? Though about seven million people have watched Ms. Silverman's four-minute Web video explaining why ''visiting your grandparents could change the world,'' the schlep remains mostly virtual. PAGE A12 
 Obituaries
 DAVID LETT, 69
 When he arrived in Oregon in 1965, there was no wine commerce to speak of. Mr. Lett took 3,000 vine cuttings and a theory of wine-making that seems spartan -- he believed that the best wine comes from regions in which the grapes must struggle to survive. His arrival began what would become a thriving pinot noir industry. Page B13 
 Business
 AS THE COMMODITIES MARKETS DROP,
 Consumers Get a Welcome Break
 For consumers, there is a bright spot in all that financial darkness: the recent economic slowdown has put at least a temporary stop to the bull market of commodities. The prices for many raw ingredients of the world economy have taken a tumble, and in particular, wheat and corn have fallen 40 percent. For consumers, this means heavier pockets, in a time when that relief is sorely needed. Page B1 
 A HOLLYWOOD HOMECOMING
 After months of drama that nobody will win an Oscar for, DreamWorks ended up back in familiar territory: Universal Studios. Steven Spielberg and Stacey Snider, above, who formed DreamWorks, have made a decision to distribute through Universal after considering an offer from the Walt Disney Company. They finally opted for the comfort of the lot where Mr. Spielberg has worked since 1967. Page B4 
 EUROPE PUTS RELIEF STEPS INTO EFFECT
 Europe has rallied in an attempt to bring the worsening financial crisis to heel. Britain effectively took control of two of the country's largest banks, and leaders in Paris, Berlin, Madrid and elsewhere have offered more than a trillion euros in loan guarantees and support of other kinds to bolster trust among banks and to thaw the frozen credit markets. Page B7 
 HAVE A SEAT, AND A STRESS UPGRADE
 You can add some increased stress to that extra leg-room in business class these days. The shoes-off routine and fears of terrorist attacks have made flying a harried experience, but now with the worsening financial crisis, the anxiety for business travelers has reached a new level. Experts are pointing to all sorts of sources, like the Internet's keeping us too in touch and connected, barrages of e-mail messages and nervousbusiness contacts. Page B5 
 NERVES AT HEDGE FUNDS
 For hedge fund managers, the current market is producing a descent that, while not yet Icarus-like, still smacks of gravity's pull. For many managers of hedge funds, the days of easy money are past, and now they are struggling to persuade nervous investors to stick with them as the average hedge fund has dropped 17 percent and more than two-thirds of those losses have occurred since September. Page B1 
 THE CASH STAYS UNDER THE MATTRESS
 Many of the world's stock markets are springing more leaks than a sieve. If there is aid to come, it probably won't be from the Middle East's sovereign wealth funds. The funds, the biggest of which is in Abu Dhabi and has an estimated $55 billion in cash, have been hoarding a steadily increasing supply of cash. This means that the cash-starved U.S. and British governments cannot rely on contributions from foreign sources to plug those leaks. PageB7 
 New York
 A PAGE'S LIFE AT NBC, MORE SOUGHT AFTER THAN YALE
 With its $10-an-hour wage, and its job description of a six-day week fetching coffee, standing sentry outside studio doors in empty hallways and leading tours, a job as an NBC page hardly sounds in demand. But more than 7,000 people apply for the 60 to 85 positions every year, eager to follow in the footsteps of people like Regis Philbin, Kate Jackson, Ted Koppel and Eva Marie Saint, who all began as pages for the network. Page A23 
 THREE 911 CALLS LATER, TWO BODIES
 In the midst of a morning rush to work 10 days ago, Jenny Ferrer heard a neighbor in her Washington Heights apartment building call for help. Ms. Ferrer called 911 and left for work. She later heard that police had knocked on the wrong apartment door. After a few days and a mounting foul odor, more calls to the police were made and finally, the door was forced open, revealing the bodies of a 60-year-old man and his mother. Page A24 
 CAUSE OF CHELSEA FIRE DETERMINED
 A fire that devastated an apartment in Chelsea over the weekend and killed five members of a family was caused by a child's playing with matches, Fire Department officials said. The fire was ruled an accident. One victim, a child, is in critical condition. It was unclear which child may have started the fire. Page A24 
 Sports
 BIG BROWN IS RETIRED AFTER HURTING HOOF
 Big Brown, the Kentucky Derby and Preakness winner, injured his right front hoof during a workout at Aqueduct and was immediately retired, thwarting an anticipated showdown with the 2007 Horse of the Year, Curlin, in the Breeders' Cup Classic. Big Brown will stand at stud. Page B15 
 THE MAN WHO BROKE ARMSTRONG
 More than a mile up in the Rocky Mountains, with his wife already at work, David Wiens fed his three boys and got them out the door to school, prepared for some volunteer work and hoped to squeeze in an hour-long bike ride before picking the children up. When the snow hits, he will stop riding until spring. Those may not be the workout habits expected of a cyclist who two months earlier outraced Lance Armstrong. Page B14 
 science
 STRAIN OF STREP BACTERIA
 Resists Children's Vaccines
 A highly drug-resistant germ has become a common cause of meningitis, pneumonia and other life-threatening conditions in young children. The culprit -- a strain of strep bacteria -- can conquer almost all antibiotics in pediatrics and has dodged a vaccine otherwise credited with causing the number of serious infections in children to plummet. PAGE D1
 MIGRATORY BARRIER: ROADS
 The mountains in and around Glacier National Park teem with bears; a recent census found 765 grizzlies in northwestern Montana. But just a few miles south there is a swath of federally protected wilderness larger than Yellowstone where there are no known grizzlies. One of the main reasons for the disparity is Interstate 90. Since fragmentation cuts off wildlife from critical habitat, new studies have emerged on the impacts of roads and how to mitigate the damages. PAGE D3
 TRACKING WHAT WAS ONCE INVISIBLE
 Using optical microscopes, biologists over the years could easily see large structures inside a cell like the nucleus and the mitochondria. But most of the details of how a cell functions were too small to be seen. With a protein that had been just a biological curiosity from a glowing jellyfish, biologists can now see what was once invisible. The green fluorescent protein allows scientists to track groups of proteins in real time. Suddenly a new hubbub of activity has come to view. PAGE D2
 Pushing for More Vitamin B-12 D7
 Arts
 GIVING 'WOYZECK' A STRONG SHAKE
 Between Teeth of Hard Rock
 A play about a man driven insane by jealousy and authority figures, set to music by a man who has a certain muse buried, pun intended, in similar happenings. When the Icelandic director Gisli Orn Gardarsson needed music for his production of ''Woyzeck,'' the 1837 play about an ordinary man pushed past his limits, he went to Nick Cave, known for a catalog of songs about murder, obsession and bad, bad love. Page C1 
 DR. KING'S CHILDREN'S BOOK FEUD
 The three living children of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. have a history of feuding with each other. This time the lines of battle have been drawn over the legacy and estate of their mother, Coretta Scott King. Two of Dr. King's children are refusing to provide a biographer with a collection of her photographs, letters and personal papers. Their brother, the executor of the estate, has asked a judge to force their compliance. Page C1
 Op-Ed
 DAVID BROOKS
 Democrats had promised to pay for new spending with compensatory cuts, but the economic crisis will dissolve pay-as-you-go vows. What we're going to see, in short, is the Gingrich revolution in reverse and on steroids. Page A28
 BOB HERBERT
 A host of very serious issues facing the United States are getting short shrift, at best, in the presidential campaign. Page A28
 THE WHOLE POLITICAL MENAGERIE
 Since 1929, Republicans and Democrats have each controlled the White House for nearly 40 years. So which party has been better for American pocketbooks and capitalism as a whole? Page A28
 Editorial
 MR. PAULSON'S CLIENT
 We are relieved that Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has stopped preaching that the markets always know best. But he still has to do more to ensure that American taxpayers, who are going to pay for the bailout, get the best deal. Page A29
 The Latest North Korea Deal
 It is good to see that the nuclear deal with North Korea is back on track. Presuming the latest agreement holds (always a big if with North Korea), President Bush can at least say that when he left office Pyongyang was no longer producing plutonium for nuclear bombs. Page A29
 BPA AND THE DONOR
 For an agency that claims to be rooting out conflicts of interest, the Food and Drug Administration has done a poor job of handling what looks like a potential conflict on a committee evaluating the safety of bisphenol-A -- a chemical found in baby bottles. Page A29

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); SCANDALS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (60%); SEX SCANDALS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: TIM MAHONEY (56%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (55%); GORDON BROWN (54%); EHUD BARAK (53%); TZIPORA LIVNI (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (96%); PARAGUAY (95%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



562 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Nations Move on Plans to Shore Up Banks

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London, Katrin Bennhold and Alan Cowell from Paris, Judy Dempsey from Berlin, Carter Dougherty from Frankfurt and Mark Landler from Washington.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
In a sweeping round of announcements from European capitals on Monday, Britain took effective control of two of the country's largest banks, and leaders in Paris, Berlin, Madrid and elsewhere offered more than a trillion euros in loan guarantees and other support intended to restore trust between banks and thaw frozen credit markets.
 On both sides of the Atlantic, there was a sense of frenzied activity, with the Treasury Department calling a meeting Monday afternoon in Washington with top banking executives to lay out how the government plans to proceed with its $700 billion financial rescue plan.
 Although details of the administration's rescue plan were still being worked out on Monday evening, it was clear that the White House was planning to expand the contours of the program by providing new protections and confidence-builders for the American banking system. 
 The discussions, after a day in which the Wall Street markets staged a record-setting rebound, revolved around using up to $250 billion of the program's $700 billion to pump money into the banks through government purchases of equity stakes. Another proposal would remove the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's ceiling on deposits that are insured. It was recently increased $250,000 from $100,000.
 The administration is expected to outline its plan on Tuesday morning.
 The Federal Reserve also announced on Monday an agreement with central banks in Europe to provide even greater access to funds in dollars, on top of the trillions of dollars in commitments it has already offered to guarantee loans to financial institutions and major corporations in the commercial paper market.
 The coordinated moves came after several weeks of finger-pointing amid worsening fears about Europe's banks and plunging stock markets worldwide. 
 The sense that governments were finally acting to get their arms around the crisis sparked a global rebound in stock markets. Asian bourses surged Monday morning, and exchanges across Europe followed, with gains of 8 percent to 11 percent. In New York stock markets were also booming, with the Dow Jones industrial average up nearly 600 points, or about 7 percent.
 ''Sometimes it does take a crisis for people to agree that what is obvious and should have been done years ago can no longer be postponed,'' the British prime minister, Gordon Brown, said in London in a speech calling for the adoption of a new Bretton Woods-style agreement among major countries. ''We must now create the right new financial architecture for the global age.''
 And with the financial crisis now the leading issue in the American presidential contest, the Democratic contender, Barack Obama, laid out some fresh economic proposals to deal with the faltering economy, including tax credits for businesses that create jobs at home and a method to allow hard-pressed consumers to tap their retirement accounts without penalty.
 The British government, in a remarkable departure from two decades of movement away from state ownership by both Labour and Conservative governments, said it would acquire controlling stakes in the Royal Bank of Scotland and the newly combined bank of Lloyds TSB and HBOS in exchange for a $64 billion capital infusion.
 In Berlin, German leaders unveiled a 480 billion package consisting mostly of loan guarantees. It represented a U-turn from earlier German claims that the financial situation could be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.
 ''We're taking measures in order to prevent a repeat of what we've just experienced,'' said Angela Merkel, the German chancellor. ''These are sweeping steps, but they're necessary to restore market confidence.''
 Unlike the British blueprint, however, the plan announced by Ms. Merkel does not call for Berlin to acquire direct stakes in German banks.
 Instead, the German approach offers 400 billion euros in guarantees for inter-bank loans and another 80 billion euros for direct injections of capital to restore weakened balance sheets and purchase the toxic, illiquid assets that have already forced several German banks to the brink of collapse.
 ''This package is about stability and trust,'' said Peer Steinbruck, the German finance minister. ''I cannot exaggerate the crisis in the global financial system.''
 In Paris, where President Nicolas Sarkozy of France had convened gatherings of his European counterparts for two weekends in a row to help put together a coordinated response, the French government detailed its own 360 billion euro effort.
 The French government will create a fund that will raise money to guarantee debt for up to five years in a bid to make cash available to banks unwilling to lend to each other.
 The banks will then be able to obtain these funds in exchange for putting up their own collateral, including debt currently not accepted as collateral by the European Central Bank.
 In addition, a second state-sponsored company will provide up to 40 billion euros in direct capital injections to banks that request it, in exchange for handing over equity stakes.
 While the actions were coordinated between Paris, Berlin, London and other capitals, the set of moves did not represent the pan-European bailout initially favored by the French and Dutch but opposed by Germany. 
 Instead, it was a common strategy with each country determining the magnitude and money of their effort, underscoring how much European leaders have struggled to come together in the face of the worst financial crisis since the Depression.
 Nevertheless, Mr. Sarkozy could not resist lauding what seemed like a vindication of his common approach, while suggesting that Europe had now leapt ahead of the United States in addressing the crisis.
 ''Europe, a united Europe, has done more than the United States in total amounts,'' Mr. Sarkozy said, though he failed to take account of the vastly larger sums the United States has committed outside its $700 billion bailout program. ''The time of everyone for themselves is over.''
 In Washington, where fresh elements emerged about the bailout package, its newly tapped leader echoed Mr. Sarkozy's sense of urgency.
 ''A program as large and complex as this would normally take months -- or even years -- to establish,'' said Neel Kashkari, a Treasury Department official who, like his boss, Henry Paulson Jr., is a veteran of Goldman Sachs. ''We don't have months or years.''
 ''Achieving this goal will require multiple tools to help financial institutions remove illiquid assets from their balance sheets, and attract both private and public capital,'' Mr. Kashkari said. ''Our toolkit is being designed to help financial institutions of all sizes so they can grow stronger and provide crucial funding to our economy.''
 Mr. Kashkari said that the government had set up teams to determine the best ways to buy mortgage-backed securities, acquire equity stakes in banks, identify home loans that needed to be purchased, insure troubled assets, preserve homeownership, deal with executive compensation at banks that receive capital injections and assure compliance with regulatory laws.
 ''We will complete the design of these tools and deploy them as soon as they are ready,'' he said. Even as investors cheered, some experts questioned whether the plan would be big enough to stave of the broader economic worry: a prolonged Europe-wide recession.
 According to an analysis by Capital Economics in London, the bailout packages are roughly similar in economic impact: 3.3 percent of gross domestic product in Germany, 2.1 percent in France, and 2.9 percent in Britain. 
 While Europe's biggest economies led the way, Austria also made 100 billion euros available for recapitalizations and loan guarantees; Spain will insure up to 100 billion euros in bank debt; and the Netherlands threw 220 billion euros into the pot.
 ''These amounts involved qualify as serious money by any yardstick,'' said Holger Schmieding, chief European economist for Bank of America in London.
 Mr. Schmieding calculated that for Germany, France, the Netherlands and Austria -- countries whose combined economies are just over half the size of the United States' -- state guarantees and capital injections reach 1.3 trillion euros.
 But despite the scale of the European efforts, the Capital report said, ''we are skeptical as to whether they will on their own be enough to prevent the growth of bank lending from slowing sharply and causing a more prolonged slowdown.''
 Still, there were modest indications that the European plan was increasing the willingness of banks to lend to one another, a key goal. The three-month Libor rate fell to 4.75 percent Monday from 4.82 percent Friday .
 While it was not clear how long European governments will hold onto their newly acquired equity stakes, they already are moving to exert some control, especially who sits in the corner office and what they get paid.
 Mr. Sarkozy made clear that the vow to ''not allow any financial establishment to go bankrupt'' came with strings attached. If a bailout is required, he said, ''management will be changed. There cannot be rescue without punishments of the errors.''
 In Britain, Mr. Brown announced limits on bonuses and dividends at the banks in which the government will have a stake. 
 At the Royal Bank of Scotland, which will receive $34 billion in the British bailout, chief executive Fred Goodwin resigned, marking an end to the tenure of one of Britain's boldest and best-paid executives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); TAX LAW (66%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); JOB CREATION (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (68%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (68%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



563 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Investing $250 Billion in Banks

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department, in its boldest move yet, is expected to announce a plan on Tuesday to invest up to $250 billion in banks, according to officials. The United States is also expected to guarantee new debt issued by banks for three years -- a measure meant to encourage the banks to resume lending to one another and to customers, officials said. 
 And the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will offer an unlimited guarantee on bank deposits in accounts that do not bear interest -- typically those of businesses -- bringing the United States in line with several European countries, which have adopted such blanket guarantees.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 936 points, or 11 percent, the largest single-day gain in the American stock market since the 1930s. The surge stretched around the globe: in Paris and Frankfurt, stocks had their biggest one-day gains ever, responding to news of similar multibillion-dollar rescue packages by the French and German governments. 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. outlined the plan to nine of the nation's leading bankers at an afternoon meeting, officials said. He essentially told the participants that they would have to accept government investment for the good of the American financial system. 
 Of the $250 billion, which will come from the $700 billion bailout approved by Congress, half is to be injected into nine big banks, including Citigroup, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, officials said. The other half is to go to smaller banks and thrifts. The investments will be structured so that the government can benefit from a rebound in the banks' fortunes.
 President Bush plans to announce the measures on Tuesday morning after a harrowing week in which confidence vanished in financial markets as the crisis spread worldwide and government leaders engaged in a desperate search for remedies to the spreading contagion. They are desperately seeking to curb the severity of a recession that has come to appear all but inevitable.
 Over the weekend, central banks flooded the system with billions of dollars in liquidity, throwing out the traditional financial playbook in favor of a series of moves that officials hoped would get banks lending again.
 European countries -- including Britain, France, Germany and Spain -- announced aggressive plans to guarantee bank debt, take ownership stakes in banks or prop up ailing companies with billions in taxpayer funds.
 The Treasury's plan would help the United States catch up to Europe in what has become a footrace between countries to reassure investors that their banks will not default or that other countries will not one-up their rescue plans and, in so doing, siphon off bank deposits or investment capital.
 ''The Europeans not only provided a blueprint, but forced our hand,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard and an adviser to John McCain, the Republican presidential candidate. ''We're trying to prevent wholesale carnage in the financial system.''
 In the process, Mr. Rogoff and other experts said, the government is remaking the financial landscape in ways that would have been unimaginable a few weeks ago -- taking stakes in the industry and making Washington the ultimate guarantor for banking in the United States.
 But the pace of the crisis has driven events, and fissures in places as far-flung as Iceland, which suffered a wholesale collapse of its banks, persuaded officials to act far more decisively than they had previously.
 ''Over the weekend, I thought it could come out very badly,'' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. ''But we stepped back from the cliff.''
 The guarantee on bank debt is similar to one announced by several European countries earlier on Monday, and is meant to unlock the lending market between banks. Banks have curtailed such lending -- considered crucial to the smooth running of the financial system and the broader economy -- because they fear they will not be repaid if a bank borrower runs into trouble.
 But officials said they hoped the guarantee on new senior debt would have an even broader effect than an interbank lending guarantee because it should also stimulate lending to businesses.
 Another part of the government's remedy is to extend the federal deposit insurance to cover all small-business deposits. Federal regulators recently have been noticing that small-business customers, which tend to carry balances over the federal insurance limits, had been withdrawing their money from weaker banks and moving it to bigger, more stable banks.
 Congress had already raised the F.D.I.C.'s deposit insurance limit to $250,000 earlier this month, extending coverage to roughly 68 percent of small-business deposits, according to estimates by Oliver Wyman, a financial services consulting firm. The new rules would cover the remaining 32 percent.
 ''Imposing unlimited deposit insurance doesn't fix the underlying problem, but it does reduce the threat of overnight failures,'' said Jaret Seiberg, a financial services policy analyst at the Stanford Group in Washington.
 ''If you reduce the threat of overnight failures,'' Mr. Seiberg said, ''you start to encourage lending to each other overnight, which starts to restore the normal functioning of the credit markets.''
 Recapitalizing banks is not without its risks, experts warned, pointing to the example of Britain, which announced its program last week and injected its first capital into three banks on Monday.
 Shares of the newly nationalized banks -- Royal Bank of Scotland, HBOS and Lloyds -- slumped on Monday, despite a surge in banks elsewhere, because shareholder value was diluted by the government.
 The move, analysts said, makes the government Britain's biggest banker. And it creates a two-tier banking system in which the nationalized banks are run like utilities and others are free to pursue profit growth. As part of the plan, the chief executives of the three banks stepped down.
 Still, Mr. Paulson's strategy was backed by lawmakers, including Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who said he preferred capital injections to buying distressed mortgage-related assets -- a proposal that Treasury pushed aggressively before its turnabout.
 In a letter to Mr. Paulson on Monday, Mr. Schumer, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, urged the Treasury to demand that banks receiving capital eliminate their dividends, restrict executive pay and stick to ''safe and sustainable, rather than exotic, financial activities.''
 ''I don't think making this as easy as possible for the financial institutions is the way to go,'' Mr. Schumer said in a call with reporters. ''You need some carrots but you also need some sticks.''
 But officials said the banks would not be required to eliminate dividends, nor would the chief executives be asked to resign. They will, however, be held to strict restrictions on compensation, including a prohibition on golden parachutes and requirements to return any improper bonuses. Those rules were also part of the $700 billion bailout law passed by Congress.
 The nine chief executives met in a conference room outside Mr. Paulson's ornate office, people briefed on the meeting said. They were seated across the table from Mr. Paulson; Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve; Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Federal Reserve Governor Kevin M. Warsh; the chairman of the F.D.I.C., Sheila C. Bair; and the comptroller of the currency, John C. Dugan. 
 Among the bankers attending were Kenneth D. Lewis of Bank of America, Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase, Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, John J. Mack of Morgan Stanley, Vikram S. Pandit of Citigroup, Robert Kelly of Bank of New York Mellon and John A. Thain of Merrill Lynch.
 Bringing together all nine executives and directing them to participate was a way to avoid stigmatizing any one bank that chose to accept the government investment.
 The preferred stock that each bank will have to issue will pay special dividends, at a 5 percent interest rate that will be increased to 9 percent after five years. The government will also receive warrants worth 15 percent of the face value of the preferred stock. For instance, if the government makes a $10 billion investment, then the government will receive $1.5 billion in warrants. If the stock goes up, taxpayers will share the benefits. If the stock goes down, the warrants will be worthless.
 As Treasury embarked on its recapitalization plan, it offered some details on the nuts-and-bolts of the broader bailout effort. The program's interim head, Neel T. Kashkari, said Treasury had filled several senior posts and selected the Wall Street firm Simpson Thacher as a legal adviser.
 It named an investment management consultant, Ennis Knupp, based in Chicago, to help it select asset management firms to buy distressed bank assets. And it plans to announce the firm that will serve as the program's prime contractor, running auctions and holding assets, within the next day.
 ''We are working around the clock to make it happen,'' said Mr. Kashkari, a former Goldman Sachs banker who has been entrusted with the job of building this operation within weeks.
 As details of the American recapitalization plan emerged, fears grew over the impact on smaller countries. Iceland is discussing an aid package with the International Monetary Fund, a week after Reykjavik seized its three largest banks and shut down its stock market.
 The fund also offered ''technical and financial'' aid to Hungary, which last week suffered a run on its currency. Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany said the country would accept aid only as a last resort.
 In a new report on capital flows, the Institute of International Finance projected that net capital in-flows to emerging markets would decline sharply, to $560 billion in 2009, from $900 billion last year.
 In Asia, markets continued to rise on Tuesday, lifted further by the announcement that the Japanese government would inject 1 trillion yen ($9.7 billion) into the financial system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (56%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



564 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Village Nonprofit Groups Say They Are Surprised by a Steep Rise in Rents

BYLINE: By DAN LEVIN

 BODY:
The Federal Archive Building, a sprawling Romanesque Revival structure near the waterfront in the West Village, has played many roles since it was built in 1899. For decades it was a fortress where government documents gathered dust, before becoming a post office and then falling vacant.
 In the early 1980s, when the western edge of the Village was rather forlorn, the hulking building was reincarnated as a habitat for the wealthy and a haven for nonprofit cultural groups and social service providers. 
 Most of the 10-story building, which was transferred to state ownership from the federal government in the 1970s, was converted into 479 luxury apartments, as well as commercial space. Part of three floors and the basement were leased at below-market rents to four small theater groups and to four organizations helping drug addicts, the elderly, small literary publishers and advocating for gay rights.
 But now, some of those organizations, which helped revitalize the neighborhood, are facing huge rent increases that could force them not only from the building but from the neighborhood. 
 The neighborhood is much nicer than when the nonprofit tenants moved into the raw spaces in the archive building, on Christopher Street between Greenwich and Washington Streets. Gleaming high-rise buildings line the once-decayed waterfront, and gentrification has long since pushed out many of the neighborhood's artists, musicians and playwrights. 
 Celebrities walk tiny pedigreed dogs past the D'Agostino supermarket in the building's southern end, while office workers head to yoga classes at the Crunch gym in the building's northern end.
 Some residents complain that the loss of four theater companies would further deplete the West Village's cultural heritage. ''We've seen over and over again that the pioneers who made the Village the Village end up being forced out,'' said Andrew Berman, the executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation. ''There is a certain unease in the neighborhood about our western edge being turned into the condo coast. While it may be great for real estate values, it's not great for making a community.'' 
 In the early 1980s, state officials gave the Rockrose Development Corporation permission to convert the vacant red-brick building into luxury apartments, but with a condition: The company would have to set aside 54,000 square feet for local nonprofit groups whose rent would be 80 percent of the market rate . 
 The lease that those tenants signed with Rockrose was for 25 years, and it expires at the end of this month. During the summer, Rockrose informed the nonprofit tenants that their annual rents would increase by as much as 500 percent, according to a statement by the developer at a recent meeting of the local community board's zoning and housing committee. 
 The announcement sent many of the tenants into a panic. 
 ''We and Rockrose live in different universes,'' said Jeffery Corrick, the artistic director of Wings Theater, which has produced new plays on its small basement stage for 18 years. Mr. Corrick said Rockrose told his organization that its monthly rent would increase to $7,500 from $1,500. 
 That translates to an annual rent of $90,000, while the group's annual budget is $100,000. ''What's reasonable to them would, in effect, drive us out of business,'' Mr. Corrick said.
 Other tenants also said they were surprised by the size of the increase. Jeffrey Horowitz, the founder of Theater for a New Audience, which runs a drama program that introduces Shakespeare into city public schools, said Rockrose told the group in July that starting this month, its annual rent would rise to $70,000 from $22,000. ''There was no warning,'' he said. ''It takes a year to raise funds for fiscal budgets, and even then it would be impossible. They're doing this in a way that is frankly brutal.''
 Patricia Dunphy, a vice president of Rockrose, said the nonprofit organizations knew an increase was coming because they were warned that their rents would be raised once the leases expired. ''This was not a big surprise,'' she said.
 Local elected officials have become involved in the dispute, hoping to find a way to allow the nonprofits to keep their spaces. The community board is pressuring the Empire State Development Corporation, which owns the property, to work out a compromise. 
 ''These not-for-profits perform a lot of important services, and now they're being priced out of the neighborhood they helped found,'' said Brad Hoylman, the chairman of Community Board 2, which covers the area. 
 The development corporation and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, have said they are meeting with both sides to find a solution. But it is unclear how much state officials can do, because Rockrose signed a 99-year lease with the state on the building in 1982, making the company the effective landlord.
 Some of the nonprofit organizations, including Heritage of Pride, a gay advocacy group, and the Village Center for Care, a health services agency that receives government financing, said they had reached a verbal understanding with Rockrose on an increase they could afford. 
 They are waiting to see what the negotiations might yield. ''We're a microcosm of what's happening to nonprofits all across the city: the costs of rent, transportation and health care make it really tough to stay in New York,'' said Arthur Webb, the chief executive of Village Care. ''But Rockrose made it very clear they wanted us as a tenant.'' 
 Some of the nonprofits noted that the increase came at an especially inopportune time for fund-raising. ''Foundation giving is tied to a foundation's stock portfolio,'' said Jeffrey Lependorf, the executive director of the Council of Literary Magazines and Presses, a tenant since 1991. ''To find new money in this terrible economic climate will make this very difficult. We need time so we aren't forced out and made homeless.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeffery Corrick, artistic director of the Wings Theater in the Federal Archive Building, said his new annual rent would be $90,000 and his budget is $100,000.
 A directory of tenants lists several nonprofit organizations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); THEATER (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); HISTORY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); WRITERS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); THEATER COMPANIES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); DOGS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%); LGBT RIGHTS (53%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); YOGA (50%)

COMPANY: ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (63%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



565 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Bank Group Asks S.E.C. To Override Guidelines

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The American Bankers Association asked the Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday to override accounting rule makers' new guidelines on mark-to-market accounting, saying they still relied too heavily on distressed asset values. 
 The staff of the Financial Accounting Standards Board released guidelines on Friday intended to formalize a Sept. 30 joint clarification with the S.E.C. that said banks could rely on internal estimates, rather than deeply discounted market prices, to value assets in illiquid markets.
 In a letter to Christopher Cox, the S.E.C. chairman, the bankers association said the board's guidance was ''circular'' and refused ''to recognize the realities of the current situation'' by requiring companies to still evaluate liquidity risk in their calculations.
 ''Given the importance of this issue, the impact it has on the crisis in the financial markets, and the seeming inability of the FASB to address in a meaningful way the problems of using fair value in dysfunctional markets, we believe it is necessary for the S.E.C. to use its statutory authority to step in and override the guidance,'' Edward L. Yingling, the president and chief executive of the bankers' association, said in the letter.
 The guidelines, titled ''Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active,'' differed slightly from the original Sept. 30 statement. The changes reflected concerns raised in more than 90 comment letters sent to the board last week on the change.
 Mr. Yingling also said in the letter that FASB's guidelines were ''too narrow and too complex,'' making them extremely difficult for large banks and their auditors to apply and requiring too many resources of smaller banks.
 He also requested that the S.E.C. provide guidelines on when ''other than temporary'' impairment charges needed to be taken on illiquid assets, and he asked that the S.E.C. suspend any work FASB was doing on other standards using fair value until Congress had completed its study of the rules as required by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act.
 A FASB spokesman declined to comment on the letter. An S.E.C. spokesman was not immediately available.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (93%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (92%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (93%); SIC8611 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (93%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER COX (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



566 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Promoting Offbeat History Between the Drinks

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: TWAIN HARTE, Calif. 

 BODY:
Strange where a road trip can begin: a dorm room, a bar stool or Page 283 of the W.P.A. Guide to California. 
 It is on Page 283 that a reader can find the barest mention of The Order of E Clampus Vitus, one of the oldest and oddest entities in a state known for having a few, a Gold Rush-era organization whose goofball sensibilities are offset by a single, serious pursuit: a tendency to plaque all things historical, an obsession that continues to this day. 
 With little more than mortar and their ever-present red shirts, the Clampers, as the organization's members are known, have placed more than 1,000 bronze, wood and granite plaques throughout California, from the remote stretches of coast to mining towns like this one, in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada. 
 The group's handiwork appears on roadsides, lakesides and at the sites of former brothels, breweries and ballrooms. Jails and forts have been plaqued, and so have whaling stations. Historical drinks have been commemorated -- and, no doubt, imbibed -- along with ghost stories, stories of heroism and plenty of tall tales in between. 
 ''It's a common saying that no one has been able to tell if they are historians that like to drink or drinkers who like history,'' said Dr. Robert J. Chandler, a senior historian at Wells Fargo Bank and a proud member of the group's San Francisco chapter. ''And no one knows because no one has been in any condition to record the minutes.'' 
 Whether a historical drinking society or a drinking historical society, the Clampers claim tens of thousands of members in 40 chapters across seven Western states, though nowhere are the group's strange ways more alive than in California, where members are said to have included Ronald Reagan; John Huston, the film director; and Herb Caen, the famous San Franciscan master of the three-dot journal. Some Clamper membership claims, of course, can be suspect. It is true, however, that many noted historians have been members, as is the current director of the State Office of Historic Preservation.
 The group's specialty is the lesser-known nuggets of history. 
 ''I think these guys felt there were a lot of things that weren't being covered,'' said Michael Wurtz, an archivist at University of the Pacific, whose Clampers archives include photographs, letters and travelogues of trips by past members. ''And it's a whole other type of history. There's a public element. Rather than the ivy-covered walls, this is the stuff we can go out and touch.''
 Take the tiny mountain hamlet of Volcano, Calif. (pop. 101), the site of three plaques, including one devoted to the potent Gold Rush drink known as moose milk. (Mix bourbon, rum and heavy cream. Drink. Do not repeat.) 
 Or Murphys, a town with wooden sidewalks where the Clampers have erected the Wall of Comparative Ovations, devoted to Californians like John Thompson, a pioneer known as Snowshoe who carried mail over mountain passes, and the saber-toothed tiger that prowled the same territory eons before and was ''a formidable adversary.'' 
 Then, there is the pure oddity, like an upside-down house in the eastern town of Lee Vining, built by a long-forgotten silent-film actress named Nellie Bly O'Bryan, who found inspiration for the house in bedtime stories. (The plaque, appropriately enough, is also upside down.)
 That the writers of the Works Progress Administration, also charged with chronicling the state's history, would cross paths with E Clampus Vitus is not surprising. Founded in the 1840s, the Clampers fizzled as the Gold Rush did, but were re-established in San Francisco in the early 1930s, just before the W.P.A. project began.
 A few years later, the W.P.A.'s guide to California described the ''revived'' group as a ''gold miners' burlesque fraternity,'' citing its plaque at a tavern in San Francisco favored by Joshua A. Norton -- the famed British lunatic who once declared himself the emperor of California. That plaque is now gone, as is the building that housed the saloon, but the local chapter, Yerba Buena, survives. 
 Even today, the points of interest in the W.P.A. guide to California, published in 1939, shadow those pinpointed by Clampers over the years, like the elegant eastern Sierra fishing hole called Convict Lake (''a pellucid sheet of blue,'' according to W.P.A.) and Bodie, a high-desert ghost town that was barely functioning when the W.P.A. guide was published and that the Clampers helped preserve as a state park years later. 
 For members, the Clampers' ties to those long-bygone eras -- and them that survived 'em -- seem to make for potent male bonding in the present day. 
 ''It's a brotherhood, where men can be men,'' said Sid Blumner, a retired economics professor and Clamper since 1969, who has compiled a master list of the group's plaques. 
 And sometimes the men act like boys. Established as a parody of more serious minded fraternal groups like the Freemasons and the Odd Fellows, the Clampers spoof ceremonial titles. Their chief executive is Sublime Noble Grand Humbug. 
 The group's motto is ''Credo Quia Absurdum,'' or roughly ''believe because it is absurd.'' (E Clampus Vitus, after all, is meaningless in Latin.) Members raise the money for the plaques and install them in cooperation with localities. ''We don't get paid for this,'' said Ron Wells, 43, a carpenter and a Clamper ''plaquero,'' the man with the mortar. ''It's just something you do in your heart.'' 
 The Clampers thrived in the overnight towns that sprang up after the discovery of gold in the Sierra Nevada foothills in 1848 -- the red shirts they wear now are meant to symbolize the red long johns worn by many prospectors. The early members were often the ones with the pans. 
 ''The Clampers were the ones out in the streams freezing their butts off,'' said Skip Skyrud, a Clamper historian. ''The businessmen in the towns, making the money, they were Masons.'' 
 About 50 modern Clampers met recently on a chilly Saturday morning in Twain Harte, a foothill town of about 2,500, to unveil a plaque recalling its rich history, and have some ''doin's,'' as their gatherings are called.
 The town, about 150 miles east of San Francisco, was once a crossroads named Bald Rock Ranch, between western mining settlements and those over the Sierra Nevada to the east. It was the birthplace of William Fuller, a Miwuk Indian chief who held powwows there. Several of his descendants still live nearby and were in attendance.
 Paying attention to things other than ''rich old man's history'' has been a big part of the Clampers' value, said Milford Wayne Donaldson, the state's historic preservation officer and a member of the San Diego chapter. 
 ''The kings and queens are recognized, but the king- and queen-makers are not,'' Mr. Donaldson said. ''And ethnic groups were the backbone of a lot this stuff.''
 Wearing a top hat and holding a staff made of manzanita, the chapter's current noble grand humbug, Scott Nielsen, intoned a lengthy description of the plaque's significance. Another Clamper, Mike Carbonaro, took up the issue of the town's odd naming. 
 To wit: Twain Harte was never home to the Mother Lode authors Mark Twain or Bret Harte. The town's name was picked by a local woman for her favorite authors and originally had a hyphen. Where it went no one knows, and the Clampers still want to find out. 
 ''Let's see if we can go find that hyphen,'' Mr. Carbonaro shouted to the crowd, each in red and wearing vests adorned with pins, flags and ribbons. ''What say the brethren?''
 The Clampers roared their traditional word of approval -- ''Satisfactory!'' -- and then retired, as is also tradition, to a local bar to plan their next lark.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scott Nielsen, left, and Steve Slonecker at Ed's Restaurant in Twain Harte, Calif. The members of E Clampus Vitus rededicated a plaque originally installed in 1967.
Among the sites given plaques by California members of E Clampus Vitus are the grave of the unknown prospector, top, on a lonely stretch of Route 395 near Mono Lake
an upside-down house in Lee Vining
and the spot in Volcano where the drink known as moose milk originated. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12)
 E Clampus Vitus resetting a plaque in Twain Harte, a town named after a local woman's favorite authors. The Clampers are said to be still looking for the hyphen formerly in the name. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) MAP: California (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); MARINE MAMMALS (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (62%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



567 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Quiet Political Shifts as More Blacks Are Elected

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS; Kitty Bennett and Barclay Walsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BROOKLINE, N.H. -- Melanie Levesque grabbed the campaign signs from her Mercedes S.U.V. and plunged into the white crowd at the fairgrounds here. The cows were lowing, the cider presses churning and Mrs. Levesque, a black state legislator, was hunting for votes and a place in history.
Blacks account for less than 1 percent of the population in this small suburban district near the Massachusetts border. But none of that seemed to matter to the people here at an annual fall festival this month.
A group of snowy-haired retirees promptly invited Mrs. Levesque to a potluck dinner. Art Fenske, a 91-year-old former paratrooper who served in World War II, presented her with a T-shirt that proclaimed, ''Don't ever give up.'' 
And next month, Mrs. Levesque is expected to win re-election to her seat in the New Hampshire House of Representatives, where she represents one of the whitest districts in one of the whitest states in the nation. She is part of a new generation of black elected officials who are wooing white voters and winning local elections in predominantly white districts across the country.
Political analysts say such electoral gains are quietly changing the political landscape, increasing the number of black lawmakers adept at crossing color lines as well as the ranks of white voters who are familiar, and increasingly comfortable, with black political leadership.
The black officials, who often serve in small- and medium-size towns, have been overshadowed by the presidential candidacy of Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, who if elected would be the first African-American to hold that office.
But over the last 10 years, about 200 black politicians have won positions once held by whites in legislatures and city halls in states like New Hampshire, Iowa, Kentucky, Minnesota, Missouri, North Carolina and Tennessee.
In 2007, about 30 percent of the nation's 622 black state legislators represented predominantly white districts, up from about 16 percent in 2001, according to data collected by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research group based in Washington that has kept statistics on black elected officials for nearly 40 years.
Political scientists and local officials also point to an increase in the number of black mayors who represent predominantly white cities in places like Asheville, N.C., population 74,000, and Columbus, Ohio, population 748,000. According to a study conducted by Zoltan L. Hajnal, a political scientist at the University of California, San Diego, about 40 percent of Americans have lived in or near cities that have elected black mayors or in states with black governors.
Most black elected officials, however, still represent predominantly black communities. And Dr. Hajnal and other analysts say racial animosity toward black candidates still exists and may affect the results of local and national elections, including the race for president. But he said such feelings were declining.
''There's a fair amount of experience out there among white voters now, and that has lessened the fears about black candidates,'' said Dr. Hajnal, whose book about white experiences with black mayors, ''Changing White Attitudes Toward Black Political Leadership,'' was published last year by Cambridge University Press.
At the fall festival here in New Hampshire, white voters peppered Mrs. Levesque -- one of six black state legislators in New Hampshire -- with questions about property taxes, repairs to the police station and local zoning rules. No one mentioned race.
''It's a wonderful feeling,'' said Mrs. Levesque, 51, who in 2006 was the first African-American to be elected to represent her legislative district. ''I just feel like I'm a real part of my community.''
Some of the officials who have bridged the racial divide have achieved national prominence, like Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, whose state is 79 percent white.
In Congress, several black lawmakers now represent predominantly white districts, including Representatives Keith Ellison of Minnesota and Representative Emanuel Cleaver II of Missouri, Democrats who were elected in 2006 from districts that are more than 60 percent white.
''I had great concerns,'' said Mr. Cleaver, recalling his initial fears that white voters, particularly in rural communities, would not support him in sufficient numbers to ensure victory.
''But the truth is that the hard-core bigots are dwindling in numbers,'' he said. ''All of this fear -- 'Is he going to throw watermelons at us?' -- all of that stuff was gone.''
The broadest shift, though, has been at the local level.
In the 1980s, few black state legislators represented predominantly white districts, said David A. Bositis, the senior political analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies who conducted the most recent study of black state legislators.
By 2001, that number stood at 92, according to Tyson King-Meadows and Thomas F. Schaller, political scientists at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, who analyzed statistics from the joint center and other sources. In 2007, the figure was 189, Mr. Bositis said.
About 45 percent of the black state lawmakers represent communities that are 35 percent to 40 percent black in states like Georgia, Indiana and North Carolina. But roughly a quarter represent communities where blacks make up 20 percent or less of the population, including districts in Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan and Tennessee.
Such change, however, does not always come easily.
In Tennessee, Representative Nathan Vaughn, first elected to the legislature in 2002 from a district that is 97 percent white, remembers extending his hand to a white man during one of his campaigns. Mr. Vaughn said the man refused to take it, uttering a racial epithet and saying he would never vote for a black man.
In Iowa, Helen Miller, an assistant majority leader in the State House of Representatives, was advised by a supporter not to include her photograph in her campaign flyers to avoid alienating voters. (Ms. Miller ignored that advice and in 2002 became the first black legislator from her district.)
In New Hampshire, Representative Kris E. Roberts, the first black committee chairman in the legislature, said white lawmakers repeatedly confused him with two other state representatives, one African-American and the other Hispanic. Mr. Roberts said that he tried to laugh it off but that the mistake still stung.
''Sometimes we get together and joke, 'Yeah, all of us brothers look alike,' '' said Mr. Roberts, a retired Marine Corps lieutenant colonel who is chairman of the House veterans affairs committee. ''But after four years, you would expect them to know the difference.''
Mike Carbone, a white retired councilman from Keene, N.H., who supports Mr. Roberts and Mr. Obama, said racism still influenced some people when they walked into the voting booth.
''In this small town here, you'll hear people say, 'I wouldn't vote for that black man,' '' Mr. Carbone said.
''But this man can talk and talk sense,'' he added, referring to Mr. Roberts, who is running for re-election. ''We're in changing times. You've got to break the barrier somewhere.''
Some black lawmakers caution that white support for blacks at the local level may not necessarily translate into backing for Mr. Obama. But political analysts believe that experience with black leadership at the local level may have already helped some white voters feel comfortable supporting Mr. Obama in the Democratic primaries and may help him again in November.
Mr. Bositis, of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, said the trend might have implications beyond the presidential election. State legislative seats are often steppingstones to higher positions, and these new politicians, he said, may well become the next generation of black governors, Congressional leaders and more.
''If these black candidates can represent white voters,'' Mr. Bositis said, ''then that substantially increases their horizons in terms of their political futures.''
Here in Brookline, Mrs. Levesque is still focused on November, even though a white rival, Don Ryder, believes she will easily win re-election. ''Race never enters into it,'' Mr. Ryder said. ''Her chances are very good.''
Still, Mrs. Levesque, a telecommunications consultant who grew up in New Hampshire, sometimes marvels at how far she has come.
As one of a handful of black students in her junior high school, she experienced racial taunts, as well as advice that was well intended but unwelcome. Some sympathetic white friends, she said, suggested that she might have an easier time fitting in if she prayed for white skin.
But mostly, Mrs. Levesque said, she has been embraced by her white neighbors, colleagues and friends. In her district of 12,000 people, she is a member of the women's club and a local church, which she joined with her husband and 12-year-old daughter several years ago.
And when she worried at first that voters might be put off by her complexion, her white friends suggested that she consider another, more positive possibility.
'' 'You'll stand out,' '' said Mrs. Levesque, recalling their words. '' 'People are always going to remember you.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State Representative Melanie Levesque, center, campaigning for re-election in Brookline, N.H. Blacks make up less than 1 percent of the population in her district. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); GOVERNORS (72%); WORLD WAR II (69%); SUBURBS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



568 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Bold Action With Basis in History

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
After a week of mounting chaos in financial markets around the globe, the United States took a momentous step that shifts power in the economy toward Washington and away from Wall Street.
 The government's plan to prop up banks large and small -- along with recent bailouts as well as guarantees to support business loans, money markets and bank lending -- represents the most sweeping government moves into the nation's financial markets since the Great Depression, and perhaps ever, according to economists and finance experts. 
 The high-stakes program is intended to halt the worst financial crisis since the 1930s. If successful, it could long be studied by historians as a textbook case of the emergency role that government can play to rescue a teetering economy.
 ''It is profound, and it is something of a shift back to the state,'' said Adam S. Posen, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''But is this a recasting of capitalism? I think what we'll see is that the government acts as a silent partner and gets out as soon as it can.'' 
 Indeed, they say, many questions remain. Is the government picking winners in a plan that initially seems tilted toward the nation's largest banks? What strings are attached to the investment in matters like executive pay? Will the move presage a more forceful government hand to control financial markets or will it be a brief stint as capitalism's protector?
 The package does call for the government investments to be in three-year securities that the banks can repay at any time, when markets settle and conditions improve. ''This is clearly a crisis measure in crisis times, but it's a good thing there is a sunset provision that limits the length of the government's investment,'' said Richard Sylla, an economist and financial historian at the Stern School of Business at New York University. 
 The United States is acting in step with Europe, where governments often take a more interventionist stance in economies and the financial systems are in the hands of a comparatively small number of banks.
 Britain took the lead last week, declaring its intention to take equity stakes in banks to steady them. In the last two days, France, Italy and Spain have announced rescue packages for their banks that include state shareholdings. 
 The government's plan is an exceptional step, but not an unprecedented one.
 The United States has a culture that celebrates laissez-faire capitalism as the economic ideal, yet the practice strays at times. Over the last century, the federal government has occasionally taken stakes in railways, coal mines and steel mills, and has even taken a controlling interest in banks when it was deemed to be in the national interest.
 The corporate wards of the state typically have been returned to private hands after short, sometimes fleeting, stretches under federal stewardship.
 Finance experts say that having Washington take stakes in United States banks now -- like government interventions in the past -- would be a promising move to address an economic emergency. The plan by the Treasury Department, they say, could supply banks with sorely needed capital and help restore confidence in financial markets. 
 Elsewhere, government bank-investment programs are routinely called nationalization programs. But that is not likely in the United States, where nationalization is a word to avoid, given the aversion to anything that hints of socialism. 
 In past times of war and national emergency, Washington has not hesitated. In 1917, the government seized the railroads to make sure goods, armaments and troops moved smoothly in the interests of national defense during World War I. After the war ended, bondholders and stockholders were compensated and railways were returned to private ownership in 1920. 
 During World War II, Washington seized dozens of companies, including railroads, coal mines and, briefly, the Montgomery Ward department store chain. In 1952, President Harry S. Truman seized 88 steel mills across the country, asserting that unyielding owners were determined to provoke an industrywide strike that would cripple the Korean War effort. That nationalization did not last long, though, because the Supreme Court ruled the move an unconstitutional abuse of presidential power.
 In banking, the government took an 80 percent stake in the Continental Illinois Bank and Trust in 1984. Continental Illinois failed in part because of bad oil-patch loans in Oklahoma and Texas. As the nation's seventh-largest bank, Continental Illinois was deemed ''too big to fail'' by federal regulators, who feared wider turmoil in the financial markets. In the end, the government lost an estimated $1 billion on the bad loans it bought as part of the takeover of Continental, which eventually became part of Bank of America. 
 The nearest precedent for the Treasury plan, finance experts say, are the investments made by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation in the 1930s. The agency, established in 1932, not only made loans to distressed banks, but also bought stock in 6,000 banks, at a cost of $1.3 billion, said Mr. Sylla, the N.Y.U. economist. A similar effort these days, in proportion to today's economy, would be about $200 billion. 
 When the economy stabilized eventually, the government sold the stock to private investors or the banks themselves -- and about broke even, Mr. Sylla estimated. The 1930s program was a good one, experts say, but the government moved too slowly to deal with the financial crisis, which precipitated and lengthened the Great Depression. The lesson of history, it seems, is for Washington to move quickly in times of economic crisis with a forceful government intervention in the marketplace. And Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has studied the Great Depression and the policy miscues in those years.
 ''The goal is to get the engine of capitalism going as productively as possible,'' said Nancy Koehn, a historian at the Harvard Business School. ''Ideology is a luxury good in times of crisis.''
 The traditional American reluctance for government ownership is not shared in other countries. After World War II, several European countries nationalized basic industries like coal, steel and even autos, which typically remained in government hands until the 1980s, when most Western economies began paring back the state's role in the economy.
 Europe remains far more comfortable with government having a strong hand in business. So when Sweden, for example, faced a financial crisis in the early 1990s, the nationalization of much of the banking industry was welcomed. The Swedish government quickly bought stakes in banks, and sold most of them off later -- a model of swift, forceful intervention in a credit crisis, financial experts say.
 ''In Europe, the concept of the social contract is much more social -- that is, socialist -- than we've been comfortable with in America,'' said Robert F. Bruner, a finance expert at the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia.
 ''The obvious danger with anything that really starts to look like the government taking ownership or control of a significant piece of an industry is, Where do you stop?'' Mr. Bruner said. ''The auto industry is in dire straits and the airline industry is in trouble, for example.''
 ''But the spillover effects from the crisis in the financial system are so great, pulling down the rest of the economy in a way that no other industry can, so that the potential cost of not doing something like this is immense,'' Mr. Bruner said. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE RESCUE PLAN: THE LARGEST RECIPIENTS (pg.A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HISTORY (88%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (65%); COAL MINING (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



569 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Exotic New Yorkai Is Open to Visitors

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
 Exotic New Yorkai
 Is Open to Visitors
 ''Dubai, Shanghai, Mumbai or goodbye.''
 That was the morose expression making its way around Wall Street as the credit crisis and the bear market battered away at New York's finances and morale. 
 Well, if we can't all move to Mumbai, perhaps we can persuade the people of Mumbai to come here -- as tourists.
 On Monday, NYC & Company, the city's tourism marketing agency, announced the opening of an office in Mumbai, India's economic and financial capital. The agency now has 18 overseas offices.
 Travel to New York City from India has more than doubled in the past five years -- growing by 47 percent last year, to 157,000 visitors, and generating an economic impact of $266 million. (The number is expected to grow to 175,000 this year.) 
 International travelers represent 19 percent of the city's visitors but account for more than 50 percent of total visitor spending, the agency says.
 The campaign directed at Indian audiences includes videos featuring Padma Lakshmi, the television show host and cookbook author; Sant Chatwal, the hotel developer; and Mira Nair, the film director. Ms. Lakshmi is the first Indian-American to take part in the city's ''Just Ask the Locals'' tourism campaign.
 The Bloomberg administration's goal is to have 50 million visitors to the city by 2012; a record 46 million visitors were recorded in 2007. 
 New York has a large South Asian community, and many of the Indians visiting the city are friends and relatives of immigrants living in the region. That will probably provide some stability if global economic instability reduces tourism levels. As for reaching out to Indian tourists, the economy's current state is not much help: The American dollar has appreciated about 22 percent against the rupee since the start of this year, but mostly in recent weeks. If all else fails, a little rebranding could help. New Yorkai, anyone? SEWELL CHAN 
 COMMENT
 OF THE DAY
 Speaker Quinn will be more out than in,
 She will end, with the din, in the bin,
 As cat's-paw for the mayor,
 Kowtowing won't pay 'er,
 She's committing political sin!
 -- Larry Eisenberg, on ''Amid Backlash, Quinn Supports Bloomberg's Term Limits Plan''
 NEW YORK
 DAYBOOK
 Parking Rules
 Because of Sukkot, alternate-side street-cleaning rules are suspended. Other regulations remain in effect. 
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 VIDEO: Street Takes: Video of a fishing party where one man's bait is another's fine meal.
 News Meets Meltdown: Crisis or no, there's much to be learned in the Merrill Lynch boardroom.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Padma Lakshmi 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TOURISM (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); BRANDING (70%); IMMIGRATION (68%); FILM DIRECTORS (67%); WRITERS (66%); TERM LIMITS (60%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



570 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Markets Are Exultant in Greeting Pledges of New Capital

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
On Monday, for the first time this October, the Dow Jones industrial average ended the day higher than it began. Nine hundred and thirty-six points higher, to be exact, making for the biggest single-day percentage gain in 75 years. 
 The surge came as governments and central banks around the world mounted an aggressive, coordinated campaign to unlock the global flow of credit, an effort that investors said they had been waiting for. 
 Some experts greeted the rally as a turning point in the slow-motion crash that has erased five years worth of value from the stock market in the last few weeks. When Monday began, shares of some blue-chip companies were at their cheapest levels in years. 
 ''The market clearly was getting priced for an Armageddon, a depression, for the end of Western civilization as we know it,'' said Edward Yardeni, the investment strategist. ''A lot of people realized these were extraordinarily good prices to buy stocks.'' 
 But others warned that the problems at the center of the current crisis, including a global credit squeeze and worsening economic conditions, were far from solved, and could set the stage for more volatility in markets. 
 Reeling from the worst week in stocks since 1933, officials announced over the weekend that they would flood the financial system with billions of dollars in liquidity and provide capital for troubled banks, throwing out the traditional financial playbook in favor of a series of moves that officials hoped would get banks lending again. 
 Relief poured through the markets. The 11.6 percent gain in the broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was that gauge's best single-day gain since 1939. Stocks in Paris and Frankfurt had their best single-day gains ever, rising more than 11 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average, which closed at 9,387.61, up 11.1 percent, is now back to its level on Thursday. Only four times in its history has the Dow risen more percentage points in a day. Those gains came in 1929, 1931, 1932, and 1933.
 But trading volume was lighter than last week, meaning fewer investors jumped in to buy than were selling last week. Portions of the credit markets -- which remained locked tight before the weekend -- were closed for the Columbus Day holiday, so investors may have had trouble gauging the reaction among banks and big lenders to the new global initiatives. Some analysts said that stock investors held off on their trades to see how the credit markets would react.
 ''If the credit markets open up tomorrow and you can't see money flowing where it's supposed to flow, you imagine that this whole thing reverses itself quite dramatically,'' said Randy Cass, chief executive of First Coverage, a firm that collects and analyzes investment advice offered by brokerage firms. 
 Investors may also be eager to pocket their profits from Monday's gains, which could send stocks lower when the markets reopen Tuesday.
 There were signs on Monday, however, that the coordinated government efforts had started to make some headway in loosening the flow of credit. The cost to insure the debt of several major corporations fell significantly, a sign that investors were more confident about the health of the nation's big banks and businesses.
 The seeds of the rally began on Sunday afternoon, after more than a dozen European countries -- including Britain, France, Germany and Spain -- announced aggressive plans to guarantee loans, take ownership stakes in banks, or prop up ailing companies with billions in taxpayer funds. 
 ''There's a mixture of surprise and relief, certainly in Europe, as to the scale of the measures that have been announced since the weekend,'' said Mark Cliffe, chief economist of ING Group. ''There was considerable nervousness, to say the least, that the Europeans wouldn't come through with a concerted effort, and essentially they have.'' 
 The Treasury Department followed suit on Monday after Wall Street closed, unveiling similar plans to take stakes in troubled companies and provide blanket insurance for deposits. 
 The rescue efforts spurred rallies in stock markets around the world. At midday on Tuesday, the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong was up nearly 4 percent and the Australian S.& P./ASX 200 index in Sydney had gained more than 3 percent. The Nikkei in Tokyo, which was closed Monday for a national holiday, had soared more than 13 percent at midday. 
 At 2 a.m. Monday in New York, one hour before the start of trading in Europe, the Fed issued a statement saying it would make billions of dollars available to banks in coordination with the Bank of England, the European Central Bank and the Swiss National Bank. It was the latest unprecedented move by the central bank: effectively a pledge to ''provide unlimited liquidity to the world's banking system,'' as Mr. Yardeni put it.
 Stocks in Europe surged higher at the open by more than 5 percent. Shares of BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, and Royal Bank of Scotland -- among other major European banks -- rallied.
 Just after 8 a.m. came another cause for relief. Morgan Stanley, the embattled Wall Street bank, announced that it had closed on a $9 billion financing deal with a large Japanese bank, the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group. The deal had been closely watched for weeks by investors who considered it a critical gauge of confidence in the global banking system. Its completion was considered so important to financial markets that officials from the Treasury Department and the Japanese government joined in talks between the companies. 
 The agreement also restored confidence in the health of Morgan Stanley, sending the company's shares up 87 percent, to close at $18.10. Morgan Stanley was the best-performing stock in the S.& P. 500 on Monday.
 As investors received word on their BlackBerrys of the success by Morgan Stanley, their eyes were glued to television sets where a speech by Neel T. Kashkari, the assistant Treasury secretary for the government's rescue plan for Wall Street banks, was being broadcast. Mr. Kashkari appeared in Washington to present the first glimpse at the plan's inner workings and its personnel. He pledged that the government would begin injecting money into banks almost immediately.
 The stage was set for a huge rally. The Dow zoomed nearly 400 points higher two minutes after the opening bell as shares of nearly every type of business surged. Stocks surged further after reports that Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, would meet in the afternoon with the chiefs of the nation's top banks, a signal to investors that a new round of government aid was on its way.
 The gains were led by shares of energy companies, which received a boost from a $3.49 rise in the price of oil, to $81.19 a barrel. Telecommunications companies also moved higher as did banks. Goldman Sachs gained 25 percent, to $111; Bank of America rose 9.2 percent, to $22.79; and Citigroup gained 11.6 percent, to $15.75.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Traders on the New York Stock Exchange were jubilant at the closing bell. The Dow Jones index soared 11.1 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
In Frankfurt, gleeful traders saw the DAX index jump 11.4 percent. European countries offered plans to bolster interbank lending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN OESER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 In Sao Paulo, the Bovespa index rallied 14.7 percent. Actions by American and European countries helped markets elsewhere. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEBASTIAO MOREIRA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(B10) CHARTS (Source: Bloomberg)(B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (59%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



571 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Hotels Join the Airlines In Fine-Print Fees

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
 WE all know how difficult it is to make a business trip these days, with pared-down airline capacity, higher fares, crowded planes, tight connection times. But who knew it would be such a problem to cancel a business trip?
 Recently, I had to reluctantly cancel plans to attend the Boyd Group aviation forecast conference, held Oct. 5-7 at the St. Regis, a Starwood hotel in Aspen, Colo. 
 The conference rate for two nights at the hotel was $414.29. I called the hotel to cancel on Oct. 4, a day before check-in time, and was informed that the cancellation fee would be -- $414.29. 
 ''That reservation had to have been canceled as of the 21st of September to avoid the forfeiture of two nights, so at this time the canceling will result in the forfeiture of the two nights,'' the reservations clerk said.
 Yep, there it was in the small type on the second page of my reservation printout. They had me. I had to cancel two weeks in advance or pay the whole enchilada.
 Usually, I stay at one of the convenient midlevel chain hotels, like Hilton's Hampton Inn, that accommodate a lot of business travelers. There, and even at four-star business hotels, canceling a reservation is no big deal. Usually, you can do it on less than a day's notice -- and your credit card isn't charged.
 So why did the St. Regis in Aspen charge my American Express card the full $414.29 promptly on Sept. 21? After all, it's sleepy October in the Rockies, well before ski season.
 ''We work really hard to ensure that our guests understand our cancellation policies, and of course we are sympathetic to those who have to cancel things at the last minute,'' said Jenni Benzaquen, a Starwood spokeswoman.
 Stiff cancellation fees are ''now more commonplace,'' said Scott Booker, the chief hotel expert at Hotels.com, the online hotel site of Expedia Inc.
 ''As a consumer, you have to really look out for that kind of stuff,'' he said. 
 Mr. Booker said that hotels are looking to raise revenue with ''not just cancellation fees, but extra-person fees, resort fees, parking fees and Internet fees.'' 
 With more business trips likely to be canceled or modified at the last minute in the current uncertain economic climate, it is increasingly important to read the fine print. Had I known that the St. Regis in Aspen confiscated the full two-day rate, I would simply have made a reservation elsewhere. 
 Years ago, after business travelers complained loudly about the proliferation of fees, many hotels reduced or eliminated some of them. But that is changing again and extra fees are coming back, Mr. Booker said.
 ''It's kind have been floating under the radar a bit because the spotlight has been on the airline industry,'' he said. ''But it's definitely happening in the hotel business as well.'' 
 Mr. Booker said that 24 to 48 hours before check-in time is usually the deadline for canceling without charge at hotels that do charge a cancellation fee. Hotels .com does business with about 70,000 hotels worldwide and, for those who book through the site, ''we will act as an advocate in your behalf'' in negotiating with a hotel over any disputed charge or fee, he said.
 Joe Brancatelli, who publishes the business travel Web site Joe SentMe.com, said that some hotels had become more aggressive in adding extra charges. ''Hotels saw the airlines getting away with it, and they're just doing what airlines do,'' he said.
 Airlines, of course, have been raising or adding fees, including fees for changing an advance-purchase restricted ticket. 
 For my aborted trip to Aspen, I'd booked on Continental from Newark to Denver. The round-trip advance-purchase fare was $375. Reusing the ticket later will incur a $150 change fee, leaving me with $125 to apply toward another ticket.
 From Denver to Aspen, I'd booked a round-trip flight on Frontier Airlines for $159. The cancellation fee on Frontier is also $150. 
 Of course, I could have done what the airlines want us all to do, and paid extra for a fully refundable ticket. On Continental, for example, that unrestricted fare was $718 on Monday round trip from Newark to Denver.
 How much did my change of plans cost? Plenty. Including the hotel and the airline change fees, the total came to $714.29.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 The On the Road column in the Itineraries pages last Tuesday, about hotels' increasing fees on travelers, miscalculated the amount available to apply toward a new ticket after a $150 change fee was assessed on a $375 round-trip ticket on Continental from Newark to Denver. A traveler would have $225 to apply to the new ticket -- not $125.
 E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); CREDIT CARDS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: EXPEDIA INC (83%); HOTELS.COM LP (58%)

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (83%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (83%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



572 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
A video profile of Dave Wiens, left, who went head-to-head with seven-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong in a 100-mile off-road mountain biking race -- and won. 
 nytimes.com/sports
 Opinion
 PAUL KRUGMAN Times Topics
 Recent columns, blog posts and audio by Paul Krugman, who won a Nobel Prize this year for economic science.
 nytimes.com/krugman
 CHRISTOPH NIEMANN New York Cheat Sheets
 In a series of handy charts, the illustrator offers his own tricks to allow big-city dwellers to stay ahead of the pack in daily life.
 nytimes.com/niemann
 INTERACTIVE: A PLACE TO REST AT LAST
 A panorama of the embalming room at Owens Funeral Home at Lenox Avenue and 121st Street in Harlem.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 INTERACTIVE: GOING DOWN THE ROAD
 An interactive map with photographs, historical images and audio about the Order of E Clampus Vitus, a Gold Rush-era organization whose goofball sensibilities are offset by the serious pursuit of commemorating everything historical in California. 
 nytimes.com/wpa
 VIDEO: CRITICS' PICKS:
 'Wall Street'
 In his Critics' Picks video series, A. O. Scott takes a look back at ''Wall Street,'' the Oliver Stone film, through the prism of today's financial crisis. 
 nytimes.com/movies
 SLIDESHOW: A CULTURAL STORM
 Over Head Scarves
 A look at the head scarf debate in Turkey, where observant Turks are struggling to observe the Eastern tradition in a rising tide of Western culture.
 nytimes.com/world
 AUDIO: IN PERFORMANCE: 
 'Kindness'
 Annette O'Toole, Christopher Denham and Katherine Waterston perform excerpts from Adam Rapp's new play ''Kindness,'' which opened off Broadway at Playwrights Horizons.
 nytimes.com/theater
 SLIDESHOW: A GLIMPSE INSIDE 
 The Life of an NBC Page 
 Nancy Meuy Saechao, 24, is an ambitious young woman trying to make her way in New York. She also happens to have one of the most coveted stepping-stone jobs in broadcasting as a page at NBC.
 nytimes.com/nyregion

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MALONEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CYCLING (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); EXTREME SPORTS (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); WRITERS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); THEATER (51%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (90%); PAUL KRUGMAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); TURKEY (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



573 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Big Government Ahead

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
We're in the middle of a financial crisis, but most economists say there is a broader economic crisis still to come. The unemployment rate will shoot upward. Companies will go bankrupt. Commercial real estate values will decline. Credit card defaults will rise. The nonprofit sector will be hammered. 
 By the time the recession is in full force, Democrats will probably be running the government. Barack Obama will probably be in the White House. Democrats will have a comfortable majority in the House and will control between 56 and 60 seats in the Senate. 
 The party will inherit big deficits. David Leonhardt, my colleague at The Times, estimates that the deficit will sit at around $750 billion next year, or five percent of G.D.P. Democrats had promised to pay for new spending with compensatory cuts, but the economic crisis will dissolve pay-as-you-go vows. New federal spending will come in four streams.
 First, there will be the bailouts. Once upon a time, there were concerns about moral hazard. But resistance to corporate bailouts is gone. If Bear Stearns and A.I.G. can get bailouts, then so can car companies, airlines and other corporations with direct links to Main Street. 
 Second, there will be more stimulus packages. The first stimulus package, passed early this year, was a failure because people spent only 10 percent to 20 percent of the rebate dollars and saved the rest. Martin Feldstein of Harvard calculates the package added $80 billion to the national debt while producing less than $20 billion in consumer spending. 
 Nonetheless, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi promises another package, and it will pass.
 Third, we're in for a Keynesian renaissance. The Fed has little room to stimulate the economy, so Democrats will use government outlays to boost consumption. Nouriel Roubini of New York University argues that the economy will need a $300 billion fiscal stimulus. 
 Obama has already promised a clean energy/jobs program that would cost $150 billion over 10 years. He's vowed $60 billion in infrastructure spending over the same period. He promises a range of tax credits -- $4,000 a year for college tuition, up to $3,000 for child care, $7,000 for a clean car, a mortgage tax credit. 
 Fourth, there will be tax cuts. On Monday, Obama promised new tax subsidies to small business, which could cost tens of billions. That's on top of his promise to cut taxes for 95 percent of American households. His tax plans aren't as irresponsible as John McCain's, but the Tax Policy Center still says they would reduce revenues by $2.8 trillion over the next decade.
 Finally, there will be a health care plan. In 1960, health care consumed 5 percent of G.D.P. By 2025, it will consume 25 percent. In the face of these rising costs, Obama will spend billions more to widen coverage. Obama's plan has many virtues, but the cost-saving measures are chimerical. 
 When you add it all up, we're not talking about a deficit that is 5 percent of G.D.P., but something much, much, much larger.
 The new situation will reopen old rifts in the Democratic Party. One the one side, liberals will argue (are already arguing) that it was deregulation and trickle-down economic policies that led us to this crisis. Fears of fiscal insolvency are overblown. Democrats should use their control of government and the economic crisis as a once-in-a-lifetime chance to make some overdue changes. Liberals will make a full-bore push for European-style economic policies.
 On the other hand, the remaining moderates will argue that it was excess and debt that created this economic crisis. They will argue (are arguing) that it is perfectly legitimate to increase the deficit with stimulus programs during a recession, but that these programs need to be carefully targeted and should sunset as the crisis passes. The moderates will stress that the country still faces a ruinous insolvency crisis caused by entitlement burdens.
 Obama will try to straddle the two camps -- he seems to sympathize with both sides -- but the liberals will win. Over the past decade, liberals have mounted a campaign against Robert Rubin-style economic policies, and they control the Congressional power centers. Even if he's so inclined, it's difficult for a president to overrule the committee chairmen of his own party. It is more difficult to do that when the president is a Washington novice and the chairmen are skilled political hands. It is most difficult when the president has no record of confronting his own party elders. It's completely impossible when the economy is in a steep recession, and an air of economic crisis pervades the nation.
 What we're going to see, in short, is the Gingrich revolution in reverse and on steroids. There will be a big increase in spending and deficits. In normal times, moderates could have restrained the zeal on the left. In an economic crisis, not a chance. The over-reach is coming. The backlash is next. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); TAX INCENTIVES (85%); TAX LAW (85%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); TUITION FEES (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NOURIEL ROUBINI (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); NANCY PELOSI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



574 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: On Campus, First-Time Voters Count Days

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -- Lunch time on a Sunday in a college town. You know how that goes. Some students enjoy sandwiches in their pajama bottoms with sweatshirts thrown on top. Others fiddle with their iPods when they should be studying.
But bring up the presidential race among these first-time voters and there is excitement. ''It's like one of my rights,'' said Gabrielle Bedeian, a freshman here at Pennsylvania State University from the Main Line of Philadelphia. ''For me, it's the first one that came to mind when I turned 18.'' 
There also seems to be little indecision here. This is Obama territory. ''There is so much information out there and so little time left; it would take something huge to change my mind,'' said Tiernan Milliman, 18, also from Philadelphia. ''Economic policies are really important to me. That probably wouldn't have been my main issue three weeks ago, but it's all I think about now.''
Much is made of the youth vote each year, and much is then dismissed as the turnout among younger voters ends up being eclipsed by that of older Americans by large margins. But demographic swings in recent years -- the population of 18- to 24-year-olds rose to nearly 30 million in 2006, from about 27 million in 2000, according to Census Bureau figures -- have made young voters a coveted group. This is especially so in this swing state, with its many colleges and universities. Senator Barack Obama was effective in the Democratic primaries at captivating young people across the country. In March, thousands showed up at an Obama rally on campus here.
Of the roughly 8.6 million registered voters in Pennsylvania, 10 percent are 18 to 24 years old, state figures show. In the Democratic primary here, young voters made up 14 percent of those who cast ballots, according to futuremajority.com, a left-leaning blog that follows youth involvement in politics.
Mr. Obama has a double-digit lead in recent polls in Pennsylvania, and Penn State seems a microcosm of the rest of the state. ''It's heavy Obama here,'' said Josh Rea, 31, a longtime local resident who works as a cook on campus. ''The whole change message works well here. Kids want something different because what they've grown up with hasn't been all that great.''
But the regional dynamics of the state, in which Senator John McCain, the Republican nominee, plays better in rural areas and Mr. Obama leads in urban spots, are also reflected here among the students. ''Obama is definitely favored among people from Philly and Pittsburgh,'' said Spenser Shumaker, from Harrisburg, a steadfast Ron Paul fan. ''But my roommate is from Scranton, and he's very conservative.''
Amanda Minchin, 19, banging away on her laptop at an outdoor table, said she was undecided, but felt pressure on campus. ''It's kind of hard around here,'' Ms. Minchin said. ''People have strong viewpoints.''
Parents and upbringing play a large role in how students form opinions. ''I'm a big Republican,'' said Drew Brennan, 20, who sat outside Sunday with his laptop, too. ''I'm from an upscale area in New Jersey, so that's pretty much the vibe there.''
Still, Mr. Brennan does not appear to have a lot of company. There is a conservative group on campus, the Young Americans for Freedom, and their office was locked Sunday. A sign on the door read: ''Number of people at Ann Coulter's speech: 1,200. Number of people lined up to have their books signed: 200+. Number of active Y.A.F. members: 12.''
The scene was different at the Obama regional headquarters for Centre County, just up the street from campus. College students -- alongside older supporters -- punched out buttons, worked the phones and made posters.
''We have 300 to 400 kids a week in here,'' said Zachary Zabel, the president of Penn State Students for Barack Obama. ''We all feel this is the most important campus in the country.''
Mr. Zabel's group works to register new voters and find undecided young voters to try to sway. ''You think about how John McCain says the fundamentals of the economy are strong, and that should concern them,'' he said.
His group also canvases the surrounding rural areas among older voters. ''We've all encountered some hostility,'' Mr. Zabel said. ''But things have picked up everywhere in recent months. I think it's the economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maryam Movahedi, vice president of Penn State Students for Barack Obama, is among many students active in the election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: State college, Pennsylvania 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); CENSUS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); LIBERAL MEDIA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); RON PAUL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



575 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Investing $250 Billion to Bolster Banks; Dow Surges 936 Points

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Reporting was contributed by Eric Dash, Louise Story and Ben White in New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Buoyed by the biggest intervention in the American banking system since the Depression and similar moves in Europe, stock markets around the world staged one of the most powerful one-day rallies in history on Monday.
 The Treasury Department, in its boldest move yet, is expected to announce a plan on Tuesday to invest up to $250 billion in banks, according to officials. The United States is also expected to guarantee new debt issued by banks for three years -- a measure meant to encourage the banks to resume lending to one another and to customers, officials said. 
 And the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will offer an unlimited guarantee on bank deposits in accounts that do not bear interest -- typically those of businesses -- bringing the United States in line with several European countries, which have adopted such blanket guarantees.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 936 points, or 11 percent, the largest single-day gain in the American stock market since the 1930s. The surge stretched around the globe: in Paris and Frankfurt, stocks had their biggest one-day gains ever, responding to news of similar multibillion-dollar rescue packages by the French and German governments. 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. outlined the plan to nine of the nation's leading bankers at an afternoon meeting, officials said. He essentially told the participants that they would have to accept government investment for the good of the American financial system. 
 Of the $250 billion, which will come from the $700 billion bailout approved by Congress, half is to be injected into nine big banks, including Citigroup, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, officials said. The other half is to go to smaller banks and thrifts. The investments will be structured so that the government can benefit from a rebound in the banks' fortunes.
 President Bush plans to announce the measures on Tuesday morning after a harrowing week in which confidence vanished in financial markets as the crisis spread worldwide and government leaders engaged in a desperate search for remedies to the spreading contagion. They are desperately seeking to curb the severity of a recession that has come to appear all but inevitable.
 Over the weekend, central banks flooded the system with billions of dollars in liquidity, throwing out the traditional financial playbook in favor of a series of moves that officials hoped would get banks lending again.
 European countries -- including Britain, France, Germany and Spain -- announced aggressive plans to guarantee bank debt, take ownership stakes in banks or prop up ailing companies with billions in taxpayer funds.
 The Treasury's plan would help the United States catch up to Europe in what has become a footrace between countries to reassure investors that their banks will not default or that other countries will not one-up their rescue plans and, in so doing, siphon off bank deposits or investment capital.
 ''The Europeans not only provided a blueprint, but forced our hand,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard and an adviser to John McCain, the Republican presidential candidate. ''We're trying to prevent wholesale carnage in the financial system.''
 In the process, Mr. Rogoff and other experts said, the government is remaking the financial landscape in ways that would have been unimaginable a few weeks ago -- taking stakes in the industry and making Washington the ultimate guarantor for banking in the United States.
 But the pace of the crisis has driven events, and fissures in places as far-flung as Iceland, which suffered a wholesale collapse of its banks, persuaded officials to act far more decisively than they had previously.
 ''Over the weekend, I thought it could come out very badly,'' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. ''But we stepped back from the cliff.''
 The guarantee on bank debt is similar to one announced by several European countries earlier on Monday, and is meant to unlock the lending market between banks. Banks have curtailed such lending -- considered crucial to the smooth running of the financial system and the broader economy -- because they fear they will not be repaid if a bank borrower runs into trouble.
 But officials said they hoped the guarantee on new senior debt would have an even broader effect than an interbank lending guarantee because it should also stimulate lending to businesses.
 Another part of the government's remedy is to extend the federal deposit insurance to cover all small-business deposits. Federal regulators recently have been noticing that small-business customers, which tend to carry balances over the federal insurance limits, had been withdrawing their money from weaker banks and moving it to bigger, more stable banks.
 Congress had already raised the F.D.I.C.'s deposit insurance limit to $250,000 earlier this month, extending coverage to roughly 68 percent of small-business deposits, according to estimates by Oliver Wyman, a financial services consulting firm. The new rules would cover the remaining 32 percent.
 ''Imposing unlimited deposit insurance doesn't fix the underlying problem, but it does reduce the threat of overnight failures,'' said Jaret Seiberg, a financial services policy analyst at the Stanford Group in Washington.
 ''If you reduce the threat of overnight failures,'' Mr. Seiberg said, ''you start to encourage lending to each other overnight, which starts to restore the normal functioning of the credit markets.''
 Recapitalizing banks is not without its risks, experts warned, pointing to the example of Britain, which announced its program last week and injected its first capital into three banks on Monday.
 Shares of the newly nationalized banks -- Royal Bank of Scotland, HBOS and Lloyds -- slumped on Monday, despite a surge in banks elsewhere, because shareholder value was diluted by the government.
 The move, analysts said, makes the government Britain's biggest banker. And it creates a two-tier banking system in which the nationalized banks are run like utilities and others are free to pursue profit growth. As part of the plan, the chief executives of the three banks stepped down.
 Still, Mr. Paulson's strategy was backed by lawmakers, including Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who said he preferred capital injections to buying distressed mortgage-related assets -- a proposal that Treasury pushed aggressively before its turnabout.
 In a letter to Mr. Paulson on Monday, Mr. Schumer, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, urged the Treasury to demand that banks receiving capital eliminate their dividends, restrict executive pay and stick to ''safe and sustainable, rather than exotic, financial activities.''
 ''I don't think making this as easy as possible for the financial institutions is the way to go,'' Mr. Schumer said in a call with reporters. ''You need some carrots but you also need some sticks.''
 But officials said the banks would not be required to eliminate dividends, nor would the chief executives be asked to resign. They will, however, be held to strict restrictions on compensation, including a prohibition on golden parachutes and requirements to return any improper bonuses. Those rules were also part of the $700 billion bailout law passed by Congress.
 The nine chief executives met in a conference room outside Mr. Paulson's ornate office, people briefed on the meeting said. They were seated across the table from Mr. Paulson; Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve; Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Federal Reserve Governor Kevin M. Warsh; the chairman of the F.D.I.C., Sheila C. Bair; and the comptroller of the currency, John C. Dugan. 
 Among the bankers attending were Kenneth D. Lewis of Bank of America, Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase, Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, John J. Mack of Morgan Stanley, Vikram S. Pandit of Citigroup, Robert Kelly of Bank of New York Mellon and John A. Thain of Merrill Lynch.
 Bringing together all nine executives and directing them to participate was a way to avoid stigmatizing any one bank that chose to accept the government investment.
 The preferred stock that each bank will have to issue will pay special dividends, at a 5 percent interest rate that will be increased to 9 percent after five years. The government will also receive warrants worth 15 percent of the face value of the preferred stock. For instance, if the government makes a $10 billion investment, then the government will receive $1.5 billion in warrants. If the stock goes up, taxpayers will share the benefits. If the stock goes down, the warrants will be worthless.
 As Treasury embarked on its recapitalization plan, it offered some details on the nuts-and-bolts of the broader bailout effort. The program's interim head, Neel T. Kashkari, said Treasury had filled several senior posts and selected the Wall Street firm Simpson Thacher as a legal adviser.
 It named an investment management consultant, Ennis Knupp, based in Chicago, to help it select asset management firms to buy distressed bank assets. And it plans to announce the firm that will serve as the program's prime contractor, running auctions and holding assets, within the next day.
 ''We are working around the clock to make it happen,'' said Mr. Kashkari, a former Goldman Sachs banker who has been entrusted with the job of building this operation within weeks.
 As details of the American recapitalization plan emerged, fears grew over the impact on smaller countries. Iceland is discussing an aid package with the International Monetary Fund, a week after Reykjavik seized its three largest banks and shut down its stock market.
 The fund also offered ''technical and financial'' aid to Hungary, which last week suffered a run on its currency. Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany said the country would accept aid only as a last resort.
 In a new report on capital flows, the Institute of International Finance projected that net capital in-flows to emerging markets would decline sharply, to $560 billion in 2009, from $900 billion last year.
 In Asia, markets continued to rise on Tuesday, lifted further by the announcement that the Japanese government would inject 1 trillion yen ($9.7 billion) into the financial system. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jamie Dimon, center, the chief of JPMorgan Chase, after meeting Monday with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
After meetings: John Mack, left, of Morgan Stanley, and Vikram Pandit of Citigroup
at right, John Thain of Merrill Lynch. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) CHARTS: Dow industrials, at 5-minute intervals (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.A1)
BENEFICIARY BANKS: The government is expected to announce that it will invest $250 billion in banks by buying newly issued, nonconvertible preferred stock. These eight large banks will receive about half of the $250 billion, while any number of the thousands of other banks in the nation could receive the rest. (Sources: Bloomberg
 Treasury) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RECESSION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (72%); JOHN THAIN (63%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); JAMES DIMON (50%); VIKRAM PANDIT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (55%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



576 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Obama Details Economic Plan To Aid Victims of Fiscal Crisis

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and JEFF ZELENY; Jackie Calmes reported from Washington, and Jeff Zeleny from Toledo. Carl Hulse contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: TOLEDO, Ohio 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama proposed new steps on Monday to address the economic crisis, calling for temporary but costly new programs to help employers, automakers, homeowners, the unemployed, and state and local governments.
 In an address here, Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, proposed giving employers a $3,000 tax credit for each new hire to encourage job creation. He said he would seek to allow Americans of all ages to borrow from retirement savings without a tax penalty; to eliminate income taxes on unemployment benefits; and to double, to $50 billion, the government's loan guarantees for automakers.
 Mr. Obama also called on the Treasury and the Federal Reserve to create a mechanism to lend money to cities and states with fiscal problems, and to expand the government guarantees for financial institutions to encourage a return to more normal lending. He also proposed a 90-day moratorium on most home foreclosures; it would require financial institutions that take government help to agree not to act against homeowners who are trying to make payments, even if not the full amounts.
 ''We need to give people the breathing room they need to get back on their feet,'' Mr. Obama told a crowd of more than 3,000 people at the SeaGate Convention Centre in downtown Toledo. 
 Mr. Obama's Republican rival, Senator John McCain, will make new proposals for the economy on Tuesday, advisers said. They did not provide any details. 
 Late Sunday, after Mr. McCain and his team looked at a variety of policy options over the weekend, a campaign spokesman said Mr. McCain, who has been losing ground to Mr. Obama in the polls, would have no new proposals unless events warranted. Mr. McCain has been emphasizing his plan to help people with financial difficulties get more affordable mortgages, with taxpayers picking up the tab.
 In his speech on Monday, Mr. Obama said: ''I won't pretend this will be easy. George Bush has dug a deep hole for us. It's going to take a while for us to dig our way out. We're going to have to set priorities as never before.''
 The package of new proposals was the most detailed and ambitious offered by Mr. Obama since the financial crisis became acute last month, clouding the economic outlook and transforming the presidential campaign.
 This struggling manufacturing city is representative of both the economic crisis and the political battle for industrial-belt swing states that could determine the winner of the election. Mr. Obama is spending three days in northwestern Ohio, just south of the auto-making capital, Detroit, mostly sequestered with advisers to prepare for the third and final presidential debate on Wednesday at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y.
 Mr. Obama's advisers emphasized that many of the new steps he called for could be taken quickly by the Democratic-controlled Congress in a lame-duck session this year, instead of waiting until after the new president is sworn into office in late January. Several steps could be taken by the Treasury and Federal Reserve using their powers under current law, the advisers said.
 At the Capitol on Monday, Speaker Nancy Pelosi would not commit to calling Congress back immediately after the elections to consider a stimulus plan, given the potential that Mr. Bush would veto it. House Democratic leaders met with economists and afterward said they would develop a package for increased spending on public works, health care subsidies for states, extended unemployment pay and food stamp assistance.
 Obama advisers put the cost of Mr. Obama's full economic stimulus plan at $175 billion, including $60 billion for the steps announced Monday.
 Of the earlier $115 billion, $50 billion would be used to help states and to speed construction of roads and other infrastructure projects that create jobs. About $65 billion of it would be the cost of a second round of rebates to taxpayers this year.
 Mr. Obama had initially proposed to offset the rebates' expense with a new windfall-profits tax on oil companies, but the campaign indicated Monday that he would scrap that plan assuming that oil prices do not rise above about $80 a barrel. The shift was just one sign of how the economic crisis has shoved concerns about budget deficits to the sidelines.
 Despite criticism from the McCain camp that increasing taxes would further endanger the economy, Mr. Obama has ''no plans to change'' his longstanding proposal to repeal the Bush tax cuts next year for households with an annual income of more than $250,000, said Jason Furman, Mr. Obama's economic adviser. Under Mr. Obama's plan, most individuals and families would get a tax cut, and in terms of total dollars, he would cut taxes on lower- and middle-income people more than he would raise them on upper-income people.
 McCain advisers on Monday reiterated their argument that the higher taxes, together with Mr. Obama's plan for expanded health care, would hit small businesses with costs they could ill afford. Many small businesses pay taxes as individuals. But the Obama campaign and independent fact-checking groups argue that relatively few would be affected by the tax increase on upper-income levels.
 The recent surge of government spending to bail out financial institutions and other corporations are likely to drive projections for the federal deficit this year and beyond far above the $438 billion shortfall recorded for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30.
 Yet the McCain campaign insisted Monday that Mr. McCain would balance the budget by 2013, which would be the end of his first term. Nonpartisan analysts consider that unlikely if not impossible. Mr. Obama is promising to reduce annual deficits from the current level.
 The most costly of Mr. Obama's new proposals is the one giving businesses a $3,000 income tax credit for each new full-time employee they hire above their current work force. The proposal, which would be effective for the next two years and is based on a concept that has been used in past downturns, would account for about $40 billion of the new package's $60 billion price tag. 
 About $10 billion of the $60 billion would go to eliminating income taxes on unemployment benefits and extending aid to the long-term unemployed by 13 weeks, on top of the existing 26 weeks. 
 Mr. Obama's proposal from last week to allow struggling small businesses to apply for loans from the Small Business Administration's disaster funds would cost more than $5 billion. The expense of covering additional loan guarantees for the auto industry would mean more than $4 billion more.
 While not costly to the Treasury, perhaps more controversial is Mr. Obama's proposal to allow Americans to withdraw without tax penalty 15 percent of their retirement savings, up to $10,000, from their tax-favored Individual Retirement Accounts and 401(k)s. They would still have to pay income taxes on the withdrawal. Current law requires savers younger than 59 1/2 to pay taxes and a 10 percent penalty. 
 Economists and nonpartisan analysts generally oppose making it easier for Americans to tap into retirement savings, considering that the United States has a net negative savings rate that is the lowest among the world's industrialized nations. But Obama advisers counter that many Americans need that money to get by and should not be penalized when major financial institutions are getting bailouts.
 For savers, the downside to withdrawing money now is that they would get less value given the slide in the stock markets. With that in mind, Mr. McCain last week proposed waiving federal rules that require older Americans to begin withdrawing funds as soon as they reach age 70 1/2. On Monday, Mr. Obama praised Mr. McCain's proposal, telling the Ohioans, ''I want to give credit where credit is due.''
 To impose the 90-day moratorium on home foreclosures, Mr. Obama would have the government, using its existing authority, require financial institutions that take advantage of the Treasury's rescue plan to agree not to foreclose on the mortgages of any homeowners who are making ''good faith efforts'' to pay, even if their payments fall short.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama before speaking Monday about his new economic plans in Toledo, Ohio. ''We're going to have to set priorities as never before,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) CHART: CANDIDATES ON THE ECONOMY: On Monday, Senator Barack Obama expanded his plan to jump-start the economy. The latest proposals, worth about $60 billion, and the measures he announced this summer bring the cost of his stimulus plan to $175 billion. His opponent, Senator John McCain, is expected to address the economy on Tuesday. (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (87%) OHIO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



577 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Paulson's Client

 BODY:
Call it bailout, take two. With credit markets frozen and the financial system teetering on collapse, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has decided to invest $250 billion directly in the nation's banks in exchange for an ownership stake. It is a bold move for a desperate time. But Mr. Paulson still has to do more to ensure that American taxpayers, whose money he is investing, get the best deal. 
 The hope is that new capital -- along with a government guarantee for new bank debt issued over the next three years -- will get the banks lending freely again. The approach -- an about-face from Mr. Paulson's earlier plan to buy up the banks' bad assets -- is more in line with European efforts. Coordination is essential to manage what has clearly become a global financial crisis. 
 By taking an equity stake, taxpayers could have a better chance of seeing an eventual return on their investment. If the banks do turn around, then the government, as a shareholder, reaps the benefits.
 But we are disturbed that Mr. Paulson wants the government to be a passive investor with little say on how these banks are run, despite the billions of dollars at risk.
 That means the banks' current boards and current management -- the same people who got the country into this mess -- will still be making all of the decisions. 
 We are not arguing that the government must take direct control of the banks it invests in. But in the case of extreme mismanagement, insisting on the replacement of some of the negligent executives, managers or board members may be the prudent thing to do. 
 Mr. Paulson also is insisting that the government get preferred shares in exchange for its investment in the banks. Given how much risk American taxpayers are being asked to take on, that seems reasonable. Among other advantages, dividends on such shares are paid before common shareholders receive their payouts. 
 The Treasury should also insist on stepped-up government supervision to ensure that sound lending resumes -- and that reckless lending does not. Government regulators need to frequently review the rescued firms' operations, daily if necessary. 
 The government must also have a say in major business decisions, including mergers and acquisitions. It's also important to note that Mr. Paulson has not abandoned his original idea to buy up the banks' bad assets. (Congress gave him the power to use a variety of tactics to restore stability, and he is rightly keeping his options open.) 
 That idea has always suffered from an inherent conflict of interest: the financial firms with assets to sell are in many instances the same firms the Treasury will rely on to value and manage the assets it is buying. That is an invitation for these firms to set the price too high or to indulge in other mischief at the taxpayers' expense. 
 The Treasury has promised to independently evaluate potential conflicts, but it appears that officials plan to start with the firms' own self-assessment of any problems. The Treasury needs to set clear standards and procedures for the firms it hires, not allow the contractors to set the rules. 
 We are pleased that Mr. Paulson is flexible enough to adapt his ideas to manage a crisis that has, as yet, defied all attempts to control it. But as a former investment banker, Mr. Paulson must remember that the American taxpayer -- not the banks -- is now his client, and he is using taxpayer dollars. Congress has the duty to ensure that he does. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MERGERS (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (75%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (67%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



578 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 448 words

 BODY:
PUBLIC FUNDS RAISE HOPE Buoyed by commitments of public money to bolster banks and calm the global financial system, markets rallied to one of their best days ever. 
 THIS STEP HAS PRECEDENT Taking ownership stakes in American banks is an exceptional step for the United States government, but not an unprecedented one. [A1.] 
 GROWING REGULATION With government's expanded role in financial markets certain, the pro-regulation climate in Congress will probably spill over into other sectors. [A15.] 
 KRUGMAN WINS NOBEL Paul Krugman, below, a professor at Princeton University and an Op-Ed page columnist for The New York Times, has been awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science for his research explaining patterns of trade between countries. [A1.] 
 WHAT THE RALLY MEANS Some experts see the rally in the markets as a turning point, but others warn more volatility is likely. [B1.] 
 ROUGH GOING FOR CITIGROUP Citigroup's failed effort to combine with Wachovia Bank leaves it facing many hurdles while its rivals have strengthened. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [B1.] 
 HOME ECONOMICS 2.0 Several large grocery chains are beginning to teach their customers how to save money to enhance loyalty and keep them out of less-expensive rivals. [B1.] 
 COMMODITY PRICES HEAD DOWN As prices for raw materials drop, the global financial upheaval has put a temporary end to the commodity bull market. [B1.] 
 HEDGE FUND WOES The financial crisis is testing some of the most experienced hedge fund managers, with some analysts predicting 10 percent of the funds will fold. [B1.] 
 MORGAN STANLEY STAKE IS SOLD Morgan Stanley has completed its deal to sell a stake to a big Japanese bank. [B8.]
 AUTO MERGER TALKS CONTINUE Merger talks between General Motors and Chrysler continue as the companies study the finances of a combination. [B6.] 
 EUROPE BAILS OUT BANKS Britain took control of two of its largest banks, and leaders in Paris, Berlin and Madrid offered more than a trillion euros in loan guarantees to open credit markets. [B7.] 
 I.M.F. VOWS AID FOR HUNGARY The International Monetary Fund says it is ready to help Hungary as the global financial crisis increases the strains on that nation's economy. [B7.] 
 SORRY, NOT INTERESTED Middle Eastern sovereign wealth funds are unlikely to participate in any bailouts. [B7.]
 ROGUE TRADES HURT BANK An equities trader at a Russian investment bank cost his company about $10 million after making unauthorized bets on the stock market. [B8.] 
 A STRESSFUL TIME TO TRAVEL Experts at the Mayo Clinic and Harvard Medical School along with independent psychologists agree that road life now is more stressful than in the past. [B5.] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MERGERS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (54%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



579 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: British Lords Reject Plan To Lengthen Detentions

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
After nearly 12 hours of debate over two days, the House of Lords overwhelmingly rejected a Labor Government proposal on Monday evening that would have allowed the authorities to hold terrorism suspects for 42 days without being charged.
 The vote was 309 to 118, with many Labor members joining Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and independents in opposition.
 The defeat was a setback for Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who invested considerable political capital in getting the bill through the House of Commons in June; it passed by only nine votes. Since Mr. Brown came to office last year, his poll ratings have declined steadily, but he has enjoyed a slight rebound for his response to the financial crisis. 
 British law already allows terrorism suspects to be held for 28 days without charges, which is one of the longest such periods in the world. Mr. Brown and the backers of the 42-day law have argued that extending it is necessary because of the complex nature of terrorism investigations, which cross borders and usually involve decrypting computer files. They also argued that the terrorism threat in Britain had increased, which even some lords who voted against the bill agreed with.
 Opposition to the law was widespread, across the political spectrum and even among high-level counterterrorism officials. Two former heads of MI5, Britain's domestic spy agency, Stella Remington and Eliza Manningham-Buller, criticized the law as wrong in principle and unneeded in practice, and cautioned that it would alienate Muslims.
 ''In deciding what I believe on these matters, I have weighed up the balance between the right to life, the most import civil liberty, the fact that there is no such thing as complete security and the importance of our hard-won civil liberties,'' Baroness Manningham-Buller said in a speech in the House of Lords this year. ''And therefore on a matter of principle, I cannot support the 42-days pre-charge detention.'' 
 Lord Goldsmith, the country's attorney general under Prime Minister Tony Blair, called the law ''pernicious.'' The longer detention was ''not only unnecessary but also counterproductive,'' Mr. Goldsmith said in a column Monday in The Guardian, the liberal daily newspaper. 
 Writing in the conservative Daily Telegraph on Monday, the columnist Philip Johnston described the law as ''draconian'' and said it would ''sign away basic freedoms which have long formed the very backbone of our society,'' going back to the Magna Carta.
 Some 40 of Britain's literary lights protested the law in poems, essays, satires and short stories that were published online at www.42writers.com.
 Most countries allow far more limited detention without charges. In the United States, the maximum period a citizen can be held without charge under federal law is 48 hours, although under the Patriot Act, quickly passed after the 2001 terrorist attacks, a noncitizen can be held for up to seven days without charges.
 A study by Liberty, a British human rights organization, concluded that no other European democracy permitted close to 28 days. The longest times allowed are 7.5 days in Turkey, 6 in France and 5 in Russia, according to Liberty (www.liberty-humanrights.org.uk). ''I don't really care what any other country does,'' Lord West, the Home Office minister, said during a powerful speech in support of the bill in the House of Lords on Monday evening. ''You're bloody lucky to live in this country,'' he added.
 The law is not dead yet. Mr. Brown may go back to the House of Commons, but it is not clear if he will continue the struggle. In an editorial on Monday, The Financial Times urged him to drop the idea. ''A Lords defeat should be the last we hear of this contentious, damaging plan,'' the editorial said.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 23, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 14 about opposition to a proposal by Britain's Labor government to toughen an anti-terrorism law misspelled the surname of a former leader of MI5, Britain's domestic spy agency, who had criticized the proposal. She is Dame Stella Rimington, not Remington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); WRITERS (84%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); US PATRIOT ACT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); ESPIONAGE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); LITERATURE (62%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (78%); TONY BLAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



580 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: A Riveting Speaker, Waving the Flag

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
Here is the thing about Gov. Sarah Palin: She loves America. Really loves it. She loves the smell of cut grass and hay, as she told Ohio voters Sunday. She loves Navy bases, she said in Virginia Beach on Monday morning. She loves America's ''most beautiful national anthem,'' she told a crowd here a few hours later.
 Apparently there are people who do not feel the same way about America as Ms. Palin does, she said at campaign rallies over the last two days. Those people just do not get it. 
 ''Man, I love small-town U.S.A.,'' Ms. Palin told several thousand people on a field in Ohio, ''and I don't care what anyone else says about small-town U.S.A. You guys, you just get it.''
 Ms. Palin did not identify who ''anyone else'' was. But listening to her campaign speeches three weeks before the presidential election, an informed voter would not need two chances to guess between Senators Barack Obama and John McCain. (The posters reading ''Barack Bin Lyin'' at the McCain-Palin rally in Virginia Beach might be a hint, too.)
 ''John McCain is always, always proud to be an American,'' Ms. Palin told more than 10,000 people at the Richmond International Raceway. ''U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!'' she continued, leading many of them in chant.
 As the Republican vice-presidential nominee for six and a half weeks now, Ms. Palin has emerged as the most electrifying speechmaker among the four politicians on the major party tickets. She generates enormous fervor at her events; people sometimes do not stop clapping or shouting words of praise until Ms. Palin pauses.
 But Ms. Palin's partisan zeal could repel some independent voters in closely contested states like New Hampshire and Pennsylvania; Democratic polling in both states shows Ms. Palin with high negative ratings among independents. Palin advisers say many of these voters do not know enough about her; Ms. Palin is campaigning in Pennsylvania on Tuesday and New Hampshire on Wednesday.
 In some ways, Ms. Palin seems like a 2.0 version of George W. Bush -- not the deeply unpopular president, but the plain-spoken and energetic campaigner who rose as a political talent in Texas and solidified his appeal in the 2000 and 2004 presidential campaigns. Hers, like his, is a with-us-or-against-us message, as when Ms. Palin pledges total solidarity with ''good, hard-working, patriotic Americans.''
 ''For a campaign that says it's all about the future,'' Ms. Palin said to a mix of applause (for her) and boos (for you-know-who) in Richmond, ''do you notice that our opponents sure have spent a heck of a lot of time looking to the past and pointing fingers? You look to the past because that's where you find blame, but we're joining you and looking to the future, because that's where you find solutions.''
 ''America, doggone it, unfortunately we're deep in debt, and Barack Obama would put us even deeper in debt,'' she added a few minutes later. ''We've got to reverse this. America, we cannot afford another big spender in the White House.''
 Ms. Palin's speeches do not acknowledge that looking at past mistakes is one way to avoid making those mistakes again. And her addresses gloss over some uncomfortable details, like that the most recent big spender in the White House is the Republican now there.
 Ms. Palin also rarely ends up in the weeds of policy details on the economy, health care or Iraq. When it comes to generalizing, she can muster awfully strong passion, as in discussing Mr. McCain's ability to get out of a jam.
 ''He's got the guts to confront the $10 trillion debt that the federal government has run up,'' Ms. Palin said in Virginia Beach as Mr. McCain looked on with a stiff smile, ''and we will balance the budget by the end of our term.''
 If there are holes in logic or a lack of specifics in Ms. Palin's speeches, her audiences tend to fill the absence with gushing affection.
 ''She's intelligent, she's adorable and she has the audacity to speak her mind,'' said Ray Gilson of Corapeake, N.C., who attended the Virginia Beach rally. ''I've never loved a politician like I love her. I want her to be president someday.''
 Kathy Seals, a Republican voter who attended the Richmond event, said she admired Ms. Palin for ''unabashedly speaking the truth, especially about life and the choices she made about her baby, Trig, and with her daughter.'' Ms. Palin's infant son, who has Down syndrome, is a frequent presence in his mother's left arm as she shakes hands with supporters and moves from event to event.
 Her references to her son are the most personal part of her speech, as she describes being scared when she first learned that the baby would have special needs. She and her husband, Todd, talked, prayed, reflected and ultimately decided to have the child.
 ''There are the world's standards of perfection, and that's what you see in some magazines, and then there are God's standards,'' she said at the Ohio rally Sunday night and repeated in Virginia on Monday. ''God's standards are the final measure. Every child is beautiful before God, and dear to them for their own sake.''
 Even on this subject, though, Ms. Palin saw little common ground with ''our opponents.''
 ''It's not negative and not mean-spirited in a campaign to check out our opponent's record,'' Ms. Palin said, citing Mr. Obama's positions on late-term abortions. Smiling, she added, ''I'll let you judge for yourself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Sarah Palin addressed 10,000 people on Monday at a raceway in Richmond, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (75%); BARACK OBAMA (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (93%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (91%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



581 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Both Sides of the Aisle See More Regulation, and Not Just of Banks

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For 30 years, the nation's political system has been tilted in favor of business deregulation and against new rules. But that is about to change, now that the government has been forced to intervene in the once high-flying financial industry to avert an economywide crash.
 An expansion of the government's role in financial markets is certain: on Friday the Treasury Department updated its recommended reforms of the existing regulatory structure, which it will leave to the next president and Congress.
 Congressional leaders and both presidential candidates already have their own, more far-reaching ideas, from further restricting executives' pay to remaking the entire regulatory structure so that it better supervises both traditional activities and newer ones like credit-default swaps that are unregulated.
 But the pro-regulation climate will probably spill over into other sectors. That seems especially likely now that the Treasury and the Federal Reserve are pumping money into corporations of all types to shore up their capital and to finance day-to-day operations until credit markets recover, and with the auto industry separately getting billions in government assistance. 
 That will give impetus to those who seek new emission curbs and energy limits to address climate change; or who want health care mandates to expand insurance coverage and restrain costs; or who are calling for new safeguards for food, prescription drugs and toys from China and other less-regulated trading partners.
 ''We now have a collective anger, disgust, over our whole financial system and it's obvious we're going to get a regulatory backlash,'' said Robert E. Litan, an economist at the Brookings Institution who has studied financial and regulatory issues for decades. ''And we know it's going to come in a big way in 2009.''
 Mr. Litan predicts a spillover effect to other industries because voters have the perception that ''big companies are animals and they need to be put in their cages.''
 He added: ''The only open question going forward in this new era is, are we going to overdo it? Is the pendulum going to go completely over in the other direction?''
 Whatever policies result, the political fallout of this renewed respect for government regulation is evident in the current election campaigns.
 Democrats, who typically have been on the defensive in recent decades as the more pro-regulatory party, now are playing offense. Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, is leading his party's charge, blaming Republicans and their candidate, Senator John McCain, for the lax oversight that contributed to the financial crisis. Mr. Obama recently charged that Mr. McCain supported an economic theory ''that basically says that we can shred regulations and consumer protections.''
 Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, who is unexpectedly fighting for re-election in Kentucky, is the target of a television ad that says, ''Wall Street and the big banks gave Mitch McConnell $4.4 million for his campaigns, and he fought for less regulation of Wall Street.''
 Yet Republicans, led by Mr. McCain, are promising that they, too, will support toughened government regulations. ''I think we're going to have to see smarter regulation,'' Mr. McCain's chief economic adviser, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, said in an interview.
 Others are more cautious about the prospect for a major shift in political attitudes toward regulation. Sam Peltzman, a University of Chicago professor and free-market conservative who is widely considered the intellectual godfather of deregulation, said the outlook did not depend solely on who was elected. ''It depends on the economy itself,'' he said, adding that the government, under either party's control, would most likely not impose costly regulations on business in bad times.
 For example, Mr. Peltzman noted that Senators McCain and Obama were both committed to action against climate change, through a mix of regulations and market forces. ''But I think it will be put off because of a slowdown in the economy,'' he said. As for health care, ''that depends a lot on how strong the Democrats are in Congress.''
 There will be no putting off the action on re-regulating finance. Both of the presidential candidates and Congressional leaders like Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, the Senate banking committee chairman, and Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the House Financial Services Committee chairman, would go further than the Bush Treasury. They say they want to overhaul the current system next year to rid it of overlapping regulatory agencies, give other agencies new powers and perhaps create a new overseer for the whole system.
 Financial institutions are likely to face tougher rules on maintaining capital and liquidity. Companies and instruments that currently are not regulated could be brought under the government's thumb; unregulated derivatives, hedge funds, mortgage brokers and credit-rating agencies all have been implicated in the current crisis.
 Democrats and Mr. McCain talk of limiting executives' compensation, while Democrats would also give shareholders more say about who sits on corporate boards. Mr. Obama, if he is elected president, would join with the Congressional Democrats, who are likely to increase their majorities in the House and Senate, to revive their unsuccessful proposals to impose new penalties for predatory lending, including mortgage lending.
 There are proposals for a new agency to protect consumers against a variety of financial abuses, involving mortgages, auto and student loans and credit cards. Credit card companies' marketing, billing and interest rates will very likely be reviewed. The insolvency at the insurance giant American International Group is reviving talk in Congress of federal regulation of the insurance industry, which prefers its current, mostly friendly patchwork system of state oversight. 
 The financial industry ''is not the only area where the deregulation ideology got completely out of hand,'' Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said in an interview. While Mr. Waxman is already holding hearings on the financial crisis and possible new regulations, he said, ''I'm looking forward to working on'' issues like climate change and health care insurance in coming years. 
 Mr. Waxman, who was first elected from California in 1974, said he did not believe the economic downturn would impede new regulations. ''Over the years I've heard industry after industry come in and say, 'We cannot survive economically if we have these regulations,' '' he said. Instead, he argued, studies showed that their compliance was less costly than predicted, and companies emerged more efficient and competitive.
 While political stereotypes portray Democrats as favoring regulation and Republicans as deregulators, recent history is more complicated. 
 A Republican president, Richard M. Nixon, presided over one of the most active regulatory periods of the last half-century, working with the Democrats who controlled Congress in the early 1970s. His legacy includes the Environmental Protection Agency, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and, for a time, wage and price controls.
 Later in that decade, a Democrat, President Jimmy Carter, began the deregulatory era that has continued with notable breaks to the present. While people in both parties associate his Republican successor, Ronald Reagan, with making regulation a dirty word politically, it was the Carter administration that instituted cost-benefit analyses for new regulations and deregulated the airline, railroad and trucking industries. 
 Mr. Reagan's record was more antiregulation than deregulatory. He and President George H. W. Bush fought Congressional Democrats' charges that they were not enforcing environmental regulations, among others.
 In political campaigns, the Republicans made gains in part by painting Democrats as the party of big government. Studies showed, however, that the number of federal regulations spiked under the first President Bush, in part because of new rules for banks and thrift institutions after the savings and loan scandals of the late 1980s. Also, Mr. Bush signed into law a new Clean Air Act, a nutrition-labeling law and the landmark Americans With Disabilities Act, among others.
 A conservative analyst, Bruce R. Bartlett, a Treasury official at the time, recalled that Mr. Bush was so angered by a 1991 magazine report headlined ''The Regulatory President'' that he ordered a moratorium on all regulations. Sixteen years later, the same magazine, National Journal, ran a similar article about Mr. Bush's son, calling George W. Bush ''the biggest regulator since the Nixon-Ford years.'' 
 That record, however, mostly reflects the many new homeland-security regulations since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. In other areas, President Bush has moved more aggressively than his father and President Reagan away from enforcing existing regulations, choosing to rely on the financial services industry and manufacturers, among other groups, to regulate themselves.

GRAPHIC: CHART: REGULATORY SPENDING, BY ADMINISTRATION: Spending on regulation grew markedly during the Bush administration, partly because of the increase in the bureaucracy from the creation of the Department of Homeland Security. (Sources: Veronique de Rugy and Melinda Warren, George Mason University, from government data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (74%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (55%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



582 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Seeking A Partner At the Dance

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN. 
The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
''As long as the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance.''
 Remember that classic? It came from Charles O. Prince III, then chief executive of Citigroup, in July 2007, just as Wall Street's dancehall was about to burn down. ''We're still dancing,'' he said. 
 Here we are, more than a year later. Mr. Prince is long gone. But Vikram S. Pandit, who inherited Mr. Prince's mess, is dancing fast -- and increasingly, it seems, all by himself. 
 Everyone else seems to have found a partner. 
 Goldman Sachs waltzed Warren Buffett. Morgan Stanley tangoed with the Japanese. Bank of America got down with Merrill Lynch. 
 Mr. Pandit looks like the wallflower. He got nothing -- except, that is, for $25 billion by way of Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson. Citigroup was among nine big banks that received more than $125 billion from the government on Monday as part of a unprecedented bailout of the financial industry.
 Most of all, what Mr. Pandit hasn't gotten so far -- notwithstanding earlier investments from Abu Dhabi and the like -- is the kind of deal that will guarantee Citigroup's standing in America's banking industry. The hobbled global giant he inherited is now left to play catch-up with rivals that have become even bigger. The government investment only masks the longstanding problems inside the sprawling Citigroup empire, including a lot of worrisome assets.
 ''They still have to sell the sofa and dining room furniture to make this month's rent,'' said Meredith Whitney, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. ''They have all this junk on their books.''
 Just how much junk will be the focus of investors on Thursday, when Citigroup will report what Ms. Whitney says will be ''ugly'' third-quarter results. Citigroup has already marked down the value of $22 billion of mortgage-linked securities on its balance sheet to 61 cents on the dollar -- a figure some analysts say they believe is still far too high. 
 But Mr. Pandit doesn't deserve all the blame. It didn't have to be this way. And only two weeks ago, frankly, it wasn't.
 For a brief, shining moment, Mr. Pandit looked like the new Jamie Dimon, the banking rock star who runs JPMorgan Chase. Then, in a blink, some thought he looked more like a Keystone Cop. 
 Mr. Pandit had agreed to buy the Wachovia Corporation's banking business for next to nothing -- a $1 a share -- in a deal orchestrated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The purchase would have added to Citigroup's deposit base seemingly overnight, making it more stable than ever. And it would have given Citigroup a serious retail banking business, something it has struggled to build on its own. 
 Enter Wells Fargo. The San Francisco-based bank -- and the F.D.I.C., which played turncoat -- pulled the rug out from under Mr. Pandit at the 11th hour.
 By now you probably know what happened: Wells Fargo, which had lost the original auction for Wachovia, came back with a surprise bid of $7 a share. Wachovia accepted that superior offer after a series of court hearings. 
 But the Wachovia deal was more important for Citigroup than many investors realized. Indeed, in parts of Washington and Wall Street, some whispered that the Citigroup-Wachovia tie-up was actually a backdoor bailout for Citigroup, not just Wachovia.
 ''We believe the F.D.I.C.'s role in the Citi-WB transaction might have been as much about helping Citi as it was about helping save the WB franchise,'' wrote John E. McDonald, senior analyst at Sanford Bernstein, in a report to clients. ''This view has not been stated by the F.D.I.C. but is our opinion.''
 By all accounts, the F.D.I.C. switched allegiance because the Wells Fargo deal looked better for Wachovia's shareholders and, perhaps even more important, for taxpayers. Under Citigroup's original proposal, the F.D.I.C. had backstopped $42 billion in Wachovia's debt. Wells Fargo's deal got taxpayers off the hook.
 But some suggest the F.D.I.C.'s about-face created even more problems. ''We believe the question of 'which deal is better for the F.D.I.C. and America?' is actually a tougher question than it appears on the surface,'' Mr. McDonald wrote. In other words, Mr. McDonald thought that Citigroup's status might be more perilous than anyone believed. 
 Citigroup maintains that it is well capitalized, but there's little question that Mr. Pandit got thrown under the bus. Sure, he could have bid more. And perhaps the language in the deal contract -- which was a simple term sheet -- could have been tighter. But a deal is supposed to be a deal, and with the government's backing, it is hard to argue this outcome was ever imaginable.
 Without Citigroup's offer -- which was struck in a matter of hours in the middle of the night -- Wachovia would have been toast. It might never have survived long enough for another suitor show up. 
 Now, Citigroup is left battling it out in court for a consolation prize: billions of dollars in cash. (You could call it a form of capital-raising.)
 ''Citigroup exposed itself to substantial economic risk by publicly committing to rescue Wachovia with less than 72 hours' due diligence, as well as the risk that it would be used as a stalking horse for other bidders who might come in later after Citigroup's action prevented Wachovia from failure,'' Citigroup said in a court filing.
 In a memorandum to employees last month, Mr. Pandit told employees: ''It is clear our industry is in a state of change, but I am confident that this should be an opportunity for Citi.''
 So Mr. Pandit is still dancing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); POP & ROCK (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (69%); RETAIL BANKING (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); BAILOUTS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (66%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (79%); MEREDITH WHITNEY (57%); JAMES DIMON (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (54%); HENRY PAULSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



583 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Morgan's Stock Surges as a Deal With Mitsubishi Is Completed

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
John J. Mack got his deal -- and, at long last, some relief on Wall Street. 
 On Monday, Mr. Mack, the chairman and chief executive of Morgan Stanley, completed a long-awaited deal to sell a fifth of his Wall Street giant to a big Japanese bank for $9 billion.
 Wall Street responded with euphoria. Morgan Stanley's share price soared after weeks of crushing losses. The shares nearly doubled, gaining $8.42, to $18.10. The surge punctuated an explosive rally in the broader stock market that was touched off by the government's plan to buy stakes in big banks, including Morgan Stanley, to shore up the financial industry. 
 ''Clearly, this gives us a lot more strength,'' Mr. Mack said of the Japanese investment. ''You have a powerful investor here, a partner.''
 The deal came after a weekend of tense talks that involved the Treasury Department and the Japanese government. Only last week, some investors feared that the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group of Japan might walk away, leaving Mr. Mack and his bank in a lurch. Instead, Mr. Mack renegotiated the terms after federal officials assured Mitsubishi that its investment would be protected. Now, Morgan Stanley has Mitsubishi, the second-largest bank in the world, with $1.1 trillion in deposits, in its corner. 
 ''Morgan Stanley has bought itself more time,'' said Brad Hintz, a banking analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. ''Certainly the Good Housekeeping seal of approval from Mitsubishi does a lot to tell the market that there's value in these franchises.'' 
 The bond markets were closed, leaving it unclear how much Morgan Stanley's credit spreads would improve in reaction to its deal. There was only light trading of credit-default swaps, which allow investors to protect against the risk of a company's defaulting on its debt, and those trades have been a leading indicator about the health of banks. 
 Fitch Ratings downgraded some of Morgan Stanley's credit ratings on Monday, despite the deal, because of weaknesses in its investment banking and prime brokerage units. 
 Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi are now moving into a strategic planning phase, Mr. Mack said in a telephone interview on Monday morning from Washington, where he was attending meetings on the financial crisis with banking executives from around the world. 
 The two banks are planning to discuss a multibillion-dollar credit facility that would allow Morgan Stanley to borrow money from its Japanese partner, and Mitsubishi is selecting a representative to join Morgan Stanley's board.
 Mr. Mack now faces perhaps his biggest challenge. He must remake Morgan Stanley's businesses in a way that conforms with the strict rules of the Federal Reserve, which became Morgan's regulator in September, when it converted into a bank holding company. Morgan Stanley already has $36 billion in deposits of its own, mostly from its unit of 8,600 brokers. 
 Mr. Mack said he was exploring new business lines as well as partnerships with Mitsubishi in Japan. He also continues to oversee the shrinking of Morgan Stanley's balance sheet. The bank announced on Monday that it had sold an additional $87 billion in assets.
 Mr. Mack was among the Wall Street chiefs summoned for an update by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., on Monday afternoon. Hours before the meeting, Mr. Mack said that news that the Treasury would back American banks was important for Morgan Stanley and other banks. He said he was not seeking capital from the government.
 ''With our new investor, I just don't think we need that now,'' Mr. Mack said. 
 Hours later, however, Mr. Mack sat among Wall Street leaders at the meeting with Mr. Paulson as they were all told they had little choice but to accept billions of dollars in capital from the government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John J. Mack, center, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley, said on Monday that backing from the Treasury would help banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BONDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); BOND MARKETS (70%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (70%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (68%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (62%); PRICE INCREASES (56%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (98%); MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (84%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (66%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (52%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (98%); MTU (NYSE) (84%); 8306 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



584 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Tempering Attacks, McCain Says He's a Leader for Troubled Times

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Michael Cooper contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, N.C. 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain jettisoned much of his campaign's angry tone on Monday as he declared that his race for the presidency was not yet over and that he had the experience and fighting spirit to lead the nation from crisis.
 In a departure from the sharp personal attacks against Senator Barack Obama in recent weeks, Mr. McCain adopted the more positive message of the old ''happy warrior,'' his image during the primaries. Although he painted a pessimistic picture of the American economy -- indeed, of the entire American way of life -- he said the calamitous situation could be made right by the forceful leadership he was prepared to provide. 
 ''I've been fighting for this country since I was 17 years old, and I have the scars to prove it,'' Mr. McCain told a rally of more than 10,000 people in Virginia Beach and then again here, at a smaller gathering at Cape Fear Community College. ''If you elect me president, I will fight to take America in a new direction from my first day in office until my last.''
 In recent days Mr. McCain has faced withering criticism from Republicans for running what they call an intensely negative and incoherent campaign that offers no rationale for his candidacy and may well damage the party for years to come. The speech appeared to be intended as an antidote, and aides suggested that Mr. McCain would stick with this new message through the final three weeks of the campaign. He is also likely to adopt the tone in the critical final debate with Mr. Obama on Wednesday night.
 Still, aides held out the possibility that Mr. McCain would change tactics yet again if warranted by events. Even on Monday, in an interview with CNN, Mr. McCain continued to criticize Mr. Obama for his association with the 1960s radical William Ayers, whom he called ''an unrepentant terrorist.'' Mr. McCain said Mr. Ayers and his wife, Bernardine Dorhn, both founders of the Weather Underground, ''want to still destroy America.''
 The speech, written by Mark Salter, the co-author of Mr. McCain's books and the candidate's adviser of two decades, had dark, Salteresque metaphors -- ''I know what fear feels like, it's a thief in the night who robs your strength'' -- and noted that the campaign was six points behind. Mr. McCain said that ''the national media has written us off'' and that ''Mr. Obama is measuring the drapes.''
 In one particularly bleak passage, Mr. McCain said: ''Financial markets are collapsing. Credit is drying up. Your savings are in danger, and your retirement is at risk. Jobs are disappearing. The cost of health care, your children's college, gasoline and groceries are rising all the time with no end in sight, while your most important asset -- your home -- is losing value every day.''
 But the address, delivered on a day when the Dow Jones average jumped 936 points, recalled the old McCain brand of the experienced fighter whom, he said, voters should trust in a foxhole.
 ''The next president won't have time to get used to the office,'' Mr. McCain said, with his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, at his side at the Virginia appearance. ''He won't have the luxury of studying up on the issues before he acts. He will have to act immediately. And to do that, he will need experience, courage, judgment and a bold plan of action to take this country in a new direction.''
 Then he added, in a knock at President Bush, ''We cannot spend the next four years as we have spent much of the last eight: waiting for our luck to change.''
 Mr. McCain's advisers, who are facing polls that show Mr. Obama gaining momentum and Mr. McCain's negative attacks of recent weeks as largely counterproductive, said he would deliver a new speech on the economy on Tuesday, a day after Mr. Obama released several new proposals for dealing with the economic crisis. Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Mr. McCain's chief economic adviser, told reporters the speech would contain ''specific new measures,'' although it was unclear how extensive those measures would be.
 Over all, the McCain campaign has sent out confused signals in recent days as top advisers have presented conflicting versions of when Mr. McCain would deliver his economic speech and what he would say. A Republican close to the campaign said Saturday that donors had been told Mr. McCain would deliver a major economic address on Monday, but a top adviser said later on Saturday that no speech had been written and that the campaign did not know what Mr. McCain was doing Saturday night, let alone Monday.
 On Sunday morning, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a confidant of Mr. McCain, said on the CBS News program ''Face the Nation'' that Mr. McCain was weighing proposals to cut taxes on investors' capital gains and dividends, even though Mr. McCain's existing economic plan already calls for such cuts. Mr. McCain's advisers later said they did not know why Mr. Graham had said what he did.
 Even in the face of the dismal polls, most of Mr. McCain's campaign staff continues to hold out hope, however distant, that Mr. McCain or events will somehow turn the situation around. But more often the mood is anxious, angry or subdued, interspersed with occasional moments of escape. Last Tuesday after the presidential debate in Nashville, Mr. Salter and Steve Schmidt, who is managing Mr. McCain's campaign, were at a karaoke bar until the small hours of the morning as Mr. Salter sang his way through a range of Bob Dylan songs.

GRAPHIC: PHOT: Senator John McCain campaigned Monday at the Virginia Beach Convention Center, where he appeared with Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska and her husband, Todd. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TERRORISM (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); WRITERS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (58%); RICK PERRY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, NC, USA (76%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (71%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008



585 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: A Bluish Tint Shades a G.O.P. Bastion

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: MADISON, N.J. 

 BODY:
They say the travails of Wall Street trickle quickly to Main Street. On actual Main Street in this town, a place where lovely homes and whimsical boutiques are fueled in large part by the financial industry, the maxim appears to hold up.
 ''This is a great town,'' said Ole Nielsen, 64, who owns his own business. ''But times have changed, and I have, too.'' 
 Mr. Nielsen is one of the thousands of people in Morris County, one of the country's wealthiest, who can usually be counted on to vote Republican. Most of the county's voters, including Mr. Nielsen, chose George W. Bush in 2000 and 2004, even as New Jersey went Democratic in both elections. 
 But that was then. 
 ''I look at this election selfishly,'' he said over coffee at the Drip cafe on Main Street. ''If I am honest with myself and my family, I am better off with a Democrat in the White House. I would be better off health-care-wise, and I don't believe in privatizing Social Security. Can you imagine if we had gone that way what would have happened over the last three weeks? With Obama in office we are going to get a more socialized system, and some people don't want that. But more and more people I talk to are going to cross the line.''
 Mr. Nielsen's friend Joseph Spendley, an independent who typically leans Republican, dipped into a little piece of pumpkin pie and explained why he would most likely vote Democratic next month. 
 ''I feel disappointed by the lack of oversight in government,'' said Mr. Spendley, 67, a retired fund manager. ''I think the party in office has a greater responsibility for this problem in its selection of the people in the various roles, the regulators and so on. They took a passive role. It's time for a change.''
 Many here commute to Midtown Manhattan and Wall Street, and the money made in the city has helped keep home prices high and downtown normally thriving. There are bookstores, children's clothing shops, cafes and an upscale eyewear store on Main Street, and walking along it on a Monday afternoon one has to dodge strollers and groups of lunching women. 
 And so for many, Republican economic policies still sit well here. ''I'm leaning toward McCain,'' said Rick Pasacreta, 42, a lawyer. ''I think the other candidate doesn't have enough experience, and to be crass, what I want a politician to do is lower my taxes and keep me safe. I suppose we could have a debate over the qualities of each candidate in terms of security,'' but not on the tax front.
 While most of the workers here have been immune to the layoffs and much of the other effects of Wall Street's implosion, shopkeepers and others say the pinch is on. ''People aren't taking vacations,'' said Kari Askins, 34, who works at a brokerage firm. ''Restaurants are definitely more quiet. Just generally people are a little more down.'' 
 Mrs. Askins voted for Mr. Bush twice but cannot decide what to do now. ''I don't like either of them,'' she said.
 Irma Somich, 55, one of three women walking down Main Street, said: ''I am thoroughly disgusted with this election. I don't think either person is qualified. The Democrats are connected to questionable people, and McCain is a good old boy.''
 Elaine LeSeur, also 55, agreed. ''If McCain dies -- no offense -- I don't think that Palin can take over the country,'' she said. ''But I am very disappointed at my age that the economy is in the state it's in. I voted for Bush in 2000, but not 2004. If I had to choose today, I don't know. It kind of changes daily. I was going to do McCain, but now I'm thinking it's going to be more of the same.''
 Roxane Lasly, in her 50s, is with them: ''You just don't know what to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A view of Main Street in Madison, N.J., a town where money earned in Midtown Manhattan and on Wall Street has helped to keep home prices high and the downtown area normally thriving.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); HOME PRICES (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (73%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); BOOKSTORES (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



586 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Backs Its Banks

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Hong Kong's financial regulators announced on Tuesday that they would provide government backing for all of the territory's $773 billion in bank deposits through 2010. Government assistance for banks in Europe and the United States has put pressure on Asian regulators to follow suit, even though Asian banks tend to be better capitalized.
 The Hong Kong Monetary Authority also said that it was prepared to provide capital to the territory's 23 locally incorporated banks if they needed it, following the example of the United States and Britain. Separately, the Bank of Japan was considering Tuesday evening whether it also needed to take steps to help its banking system. 
 Hong Kong banks are already among the most heavily capitalized in the world, and Joseph Yam, the chief executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said at a news conference that he did not think either of the new measures announced on Tuesday would be needed. The average capital as a share of assets for banks incorporated in Hong Kong is 14 percent, well above the international minimum of 8 percent.
 ''Our banking system is healthy and robust -- however, we must make preparations for a rainy day,'' said John Tsang, the financial secretary of Hong Kong.
 American and European government assistance to banks has forced Asian regulators to worry whether their banks might be considered weak without comparable assistance. Since the failure of Lehman Brothers last month, a succession of previously strong banks have suffered declines in their share prices and have run into trouble borrowing in the interbank market on fears that their balance sheets were weaker than those of their rivals.
 Britain returned Hong Kong to Chinese rule in 1997, but Hong Kong retains a heavily free-market economy with a completely separate banking system and currency from mainland China. The Chinese government still owns all or most of the shares of big mainland banks; it has seen little effect on these institutions from global financial troubles because the mainland Chinese financial system is still shielded from international markets by many barriers.
 By contrast, Hong Kong's system is very open, including full convertibility into other currencies for the Hong Kong dollar, whose value is closely pegged to the United States dollar.
 Hong Kong currently insures the first 100,000 Hong Kong dollars in an account, worth $12,900. Raymond Li, the chief executive of the Hong Kong Deposit Protection Board, said at the same news conference as Mr. Yam that he did not have figures available on the proportion of deposits in Hong Kong that belonged to individuals and companies from elsewhere.
 Li Kui-wai, the director of the Asian economic policy center at the City University of Hong Kong, said that Hong Kong's history of attracting deposits from all over the world meant that the policy initiatives announced on Tuesday could prove costly.
 He questioned if the Hong Kong government and taxpayer could afford a bailout ''if the one million richest people in the world put their money in a Hong Kong bank, and the bank goes broke.''
 Hong Kong's action could put pressure on other international financial centers with very large deposits and limited populations that have not yet issued blanket guarantees of bank deposits, like Switzerland, which has roughly the same population as Hong Kong at about 7 million people.
 Hong Kong will back up its deposit guarantee with its foreign exchange reserves, now $161 billion.
 Hong Kong was the scene of a bank run on Sept. 24 and Sept. 25 when depositors lined up to pull money out of the Bank of East Asia, the territory's third-largest bank by assets. The bank had enough cash to meet the withdrawals and survived the bank run after regulators assured the public that the bank had ample capital and after Li Ka-shing, Hong Kong's wealthiest tycoon, let it be known that he was buying shares in the bank.
 The police and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority are investigating the source of cellphone text messages that set off the run.
 In Asia, the governments of Australia and New Zealand guaranteed all bank deposits on Sunday, while Taiwan did so on Oct. 7.
 Central banks in Asia do not have a tradition of cooperating on policy initiatives as closely as the European Central Bank cooperates with the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve. Mr. Yam said that he had discussed Tuesday's initiatives with the People's Bank of China before announcing them, and said without elaborating that there was ample communication among Asian central banks.
 But he noted that without a common currency comparable to the euro, Asian countries would inherently face greater challenges to cooperation than European countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); INTERBANK LENDING (61%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



587 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: City to Try Elevating Academic Subjects at Technical Schools

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
As they chiseled away at wooden masks, the carpentry students at Frances Perkins Academy, one of five vocational schools that opened in the city this fall, seemed happily oblivious to anything outside their sawdust-sprinkled world. But when asked how many wanted to turn their second-period class into a career, not a single hand went into the air. ''No way,'' one boy said. ''Not me,'' a girl chimed in.
 This is the conundrum facing city educators trying to update technical education for the 21st century: how to turn schools long seen as havens for low-performing students and as places that offer easy paths to graduation into institutions renowned for academics and work-force preparation.
 After Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg declared in his State of the City address in January that ''college isn't for everybody, but education is,'' a city task force studied the issue, looking at vocational models in the United States and abroad, including Singapore. Starting next year, the city plans to open as many as four of a new kind of career-oriented school, one that integrates academic subjects with technical training with focuses like alternative energy, information technology and health care. 
 City education officials plan to petition the state for exemptions from rules that require students to spend a certain number of hours in the classroom and pass a set of exams to graduate.
 ''If you look at the financial crisis, the energy crisis, our positioning in the world, these are not problems that are going to be resolved with simple math or English,'' said Gregg B. Betheil, who oversees career and technical education for the city schools. ''Certainly kids are going to need to learn to read and write, but they will also need skills far beyond those basic skills.''
 As an example, Mr. Betheil said, students might tackle a project like building a wind turbine in New York by drawing on knowledge of social studies and architecture as well as physics and math. The new vision, however, does not require that such subjects be taught during distinct class periods -- they might be part of hands-on workshops or field trips. As the city focuses on creating these career and technical schools of the future -- education officials shun the term ''vocational'' -- it must also tend to 26 existing schools in the old model, many of which continue to struggle in city and state assessments. In the last school year, 31,855 students were enrolled in 21 career and technical schools, which was 11 percent of high school students citywide; an additional 110,000 were in 285 part-time vocational programs housed within traditional high schools. 
 While Mr. Betheil said the city would help the existing programs adapt to the new approach -- one existing school will get a full makeover and be restarted as one of the four new schools next year -- several principals of large career and technical schools said they felt left behind. They complained that the nearly $600 extra per student on average that they receive is not enough to buy equipment and address some of their students' remedial learning needs, and that the city's system of grading schools is insensitive to their challenges. 
 Of the 18 technical schools that were graded in 2007, seven received C's and three received F's. Still, some, like Aviation High School in Long Island City, house highly successful academic programs and are considered model schools, and many have attendance rates above city averages.
 At Frances Perkins, which began this year with a ninth-grade class and is housed in Automotive High School in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, all 86 students come from low-income families and qualify for federally subsidized lunches. Javier Guzman, the school's principal, estimated that a majority of the freshmen read below the fifth-grade level.
 Mr. Guzman, who previously taught creative writing at Automotive High School, made a special effort to recruit girls in the hope of getting a school that was evenly split by sex, in contrast to vocational schools' typical population, which is predominantly male and minority. But he ended up with 23 girls and 63 boys, nearly all black and Hispanic, and many of the students of both sexes said they were there not because of a deep interest in carpentry but because they had not been accepted into their first-choice high schools.
 Mr. Guzman said that part of the challenge in attracting new groups of students was getting beyond the stigma associated with vocational education. He recalled meeting a carpenter who was considering sending his child to the school, but told Mr. Guzman: ''I don't want my son doing this.''
 In order for career and technical schools to draw a more diverse student body, Mr. Guzman said, the city will need to have models that are successful in traditional academic areas and in getting students jobs in trades. ''The community needs to see these schools thrive,'' he said. ''Once they're thriving not only in the technical world but academically as well, then that will be a viable option for families.''
 Merryl H. Tisch, vice chancellor of the state's Board of Regents, said she would be tough in her evaluation of the city's new career-oriented schools and was wary of handing out waivers to state graduation requirements. She said that in order for the new schools to gain exemptions, their proposals would have to demonstrate a commitment to building a diverse student body and strong ties to industrial groups.
 Ms. Tisch, who served on Mayor Bloomberg's task force, said she was concerned about the perception of creating a different set of standards for different students.
 ''Any youngster who is looking for an easy path to graduation, that's not what this is,'' she said. ''These are not going to be the old vocational schools. These are not going to be lower paths to graduation.''
 Jeffrey Mirel, a professor of history and education at the University of Michigan who has studied the evolution of the American high school over the past century, said it would be difficult for New York's new model to succeed. 
 He said the underlying challenge in developing career and technical education was predicting future job markets and keeping equipment up to date. 
 ''Inherently, it is preparing kids for yesterday's jobs because the market is changing,'' he said. ''Nobody can look into the future.''
 Still, proponents of the new emphasis on career and technical education note that some industries, including health care, have proved to be immune from market fluctuations. 
 And even if they do not end up pursuing a trade, some students said they were happy to learn new tricks. At Frances Perkins, which is named for President Franklin D. Roosevelt's secretary of labor, the first female cabinet member, the carpentry classroom is so new that the first project for students was to construct a wood shop.
 ''We're learning a skill in class, about how to build things and make them look better,'' said Christian A. Vargas, 15. ''We can make pieces of wood into a table, a little block of wood we can sculpt into an art piece. That'll always be useful.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Frances Perkins Academy in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, Leonel Toromoreno instructed Logan Irizarry, left, and Alan Xicohtencatl on a point of woodworking.
 The city wants to open schools that combine occupational skills with more academic training.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); WIND ENERGY (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); WIND POWER PLANTS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



588 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: A Loan to Detroit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Detroit Got Its Bailout'' (editorial, Oct. 6):
 I strongly differ with the depiction of a $25 billion direct loan program for advanced vehicles and technology as another bailout. This program will help automakers and parts suppliers shift to more fuel-efficient vehicles. 
 Parts manufacturers were not an afterthought in this legislation, and this is not simply a Detroit issue. Suppliers are the largest manufacturing employer in seven states and are the nation's largest manufacturing sector, with each supplier job contributing an additional five jobs to the United States economy. 
 Suppliers can use these loans for transitioning to lightweight materials and manufacturing sophisticated technology like dual-clutch transmissions and key enablers for hybrids. 
 With one-third of the nation's auto suppliers in danger of closing, this loan program is even more important to help provide necessary financing to manufacture 21st-century vehicles in the United States and keep good-paying jobs in this country.
 Robert McKenna President and Chief Executive Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association Washington, Oct. 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTOR & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



589 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: A Big U.S. Injection Into the Banks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''U.S. Investing $250 Billion to Bolster Bank Industry; Dow Surges 936 Points'' (front page, Oct. 14):
 If the bailout works, maybe we can get over the Ronald Reagan culture that says the government is the problem and have the private sector and Washington work as a team. 
 Unless the Republicans stop saying the government is in the way and the Democrats continue being petrified to stand up for government's part, it will be very difficult for this economy to stop financial collapses from happening more often. 
 Elliot Kotler Ossining, N.Y., Oct. 14, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Why not put a freeze on foreclosures, foreclosures in progress and evictions? Tell the banks that part of the $700 billion will be used to help the buyers pay their mortgages if the banks refinance them at lower interest rates. 
 Something will have to be done to help the people whose homes have been foreclosed on. Giving billions to JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs gurus to dole out to their friends in the investment and banking institutions is ridiculous. They already stand to make millions or billions buying foreclosed mortgages and bargain-basement-priced stock. 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. pushed the panic button by saying we needed an emergency $700 billion bailout of the financial institutions. He scared everyone to death, and nothing is going to restore our confidence in the market or the government! 
 If he or anyone else wants to restore confidence, they have to help the taxpaying public and home purchasers, not the private financial institutions. 
 Carol Nickels Narberth, Pa., Oct. 14, 2008
 To the Editor:
 It's time once again for the enemies of big government to take another look. 
 First the United States government made itself ''smaller'' by dropping or cutting back on enforcing regulations on the financial services industry. 
 And now the government has made itself ''bigger'' by stepping in to prevent a worldwide financial meltdown and the chaos and pain that would follow. 
 Which is the better plan?
 We need government that's the right size: big enough to provide the vital services we need and no other entity can provide, and small enough so that it's not a drag on the economy. 
 Harriet Husbands Seattle, Oct. 14, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Bold Action With Basis in History'' (front page, Oct. 14):
 What a shame that the words and concepts of nationalization and socialism are anathemas in the American vocabulary. It's too bad, because they often work quite well. 
 In reality, large swaths of the American economy are nationalized. For the most part, it works. 
 Health care for the elderly is in the national domain with Medicare.
 Retirement and disability pensions are nationalized with Social Security. 
 Military and veterans' hospitals and outpatient care are part of a vast and mostly successful nationalized industry.
 I could go on. Why don't we just face it? Sometimes it's called for and helps enormously.
 Norman Decker Houston, Oct. 14, 2008
 The writer is a medical doctor.
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman, who won the Nobel in economic science on Monday, has it right in his Oct. 13 column, ''Gordon Does Good.'' Infusion of capital into the banks will create immediate liquidity to get us out of this mess. 
 Now, as you have so often suggested editorially, let's take a simple step to provide relief at the local level. Delete the 19 words in the Bankruptcy Code (in section 1322(b)(2)) that prevent bankruptcy judges from adjusting the principal or rate or both of residential mortgages and determining whether the owners can pay. Allow bankruptcy judges to perform the asset valuations and income determinations they are experienced in making with respect to non-residential property.
 The residents who can pay will save their homes, the banks will be spared the expense of taking the property, and the United States will not need to create another government agency to value the real estate. 
 Moreover, when the mortgages are adjusted or go into foreclosure, the real underlying value of the collateral might trickle up to Wall Street's fuzzy securities.
 John J. Dilenschneider Columbus, Ohio, Oct. 13, 2008
 The writer is a former United States bankruptcy judge.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Finance Students Keep Their Job Hopes Alive'' (news article, Oct. 12):
 I'm not sure if I was more surprised by these students' cavalier expectations of landing a ''$100,000-plus job'' right out of college or by the unflinching attitude that they can make due by working overseas or changing their career goals. 
 As one student said, ''Everyone I know is studying for the LSATs right now, people who a month ago had no intention of ever going to law school.''
 Why law school? Perhaps these young professionals could seek certification to teach math and business in a public school. Or they might pursue a career in government finance. Then again, these jobs wouldn't pay $100,000-plus from the get-go.
 It seems to me that the fundamental reasons for the current financial mess -- greed and debt -- escape these young people. Unless they face up to the new world of financial responsibility, their $100,000-plus dream jobs will remain just that.
 Barth Keck Branford, Conn., Oct. 14, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID SUTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); EVICTION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); HOSPITALS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); AGING (60%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ELDER HEALTH (50%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (50%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



590 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Misplaced Blame

 BODY:
In recent weeks, Republicans in Congress have been blaming a lot of things, besides themselves, for the subprime mortgage debacle. And many of these same Republicans have long wanted to abolish the Community Reinvestment Act, a landmark law that helped to rebuild some of the nation's most desolate communities by requiring banks to lend, invest and open branches in low-income areas that had historically been written off. 
 These two goals have converged in a new attempt to blame the law for the financial crisis. 
 The act, passed in 1977, is one of the most successful community revitalization programs in the country's history. According to a recent report by the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, an advocacy group in Washington, the act has encouraged lenders to invest more than $4.5 trillion in minority and low-income areas.
 This money helped to remake devastated neighborhoods like the South Bronx, helping to finance new housing and businesses. It has helped provide essential services in such neighborhoods, including medical centers and housing for the elderly and disabled -- projects that the private sector too often refused to back. 
 But you can hardly pick up a newspaper or turn on the television these days without hearing critics argue that the act created the current mess we're in by forcing banks to lend to people in poor areas who were bad credit risks. Representative Steve King of Iowa has introduced legislation that would repeal the act.
 The charges do not hold up. First, how could a 30-plus-year-old law be responsible for a crisis that has occurred only in recent years? Then there's the fact that the regulatory guidance issued under the reinvestment act and other banking laws actually impose restraints on the riskiest kinds of subprime lending. 
 In addition, subprime lending was not driven by banks, which are covered by the act. Rather, most subprime lending was driven by independent mortgage lending companies, which the act does not cover, and, to a lesser extent, by bank affiliates and subsidiaries that are not fully covered by the act. By some estimates, nonbank lenders and bank affiliates and subsidiaries may have originated 75 percent or more of the riskiest subprime loans. 
 A study released this week by the Center for Community Capital at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill shows that people of similar financial profiles were three to five times more likely to default when they received high-priced subprime mortgages than when they got bank loans made under the Community Reinvestment Act. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HISTORY (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HEALTH CARE (68%)

PERSON: STEVE KING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



591 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; $25 AND UNDER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Kitchen Counterpoint For the New Austerity

BYLINE: By PETE WELLS

 BODY:
LAST week, many Americans feared for their retirement accounts. I was worried about meatloaf. 
 Each time the nation faces a crisis, some trend-spotter pops out of a gopher hole to tell us that we're all supposed to start craving comfort food. In these troubled times, they drone, we hunger for Mom's meatloaf. 
 I love my mother, but when times are troubled I crave sea urchin pasta, duck rillettes, a double bourbon, and other things she never served me. And that is one reason I was heartened when the restaurant No. 7 appeared in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, last month, right around the time the stock market began its high-speed face-plant. 
 No. 7 is a comfortable restaurant with comfortable prices, but it is not doing comfort food. It is doing big-city, night-on-the-town chef food. The economy may be regressing, but that doesn't mean our diets have to. 
 Instead, No. 7 gives us sophisticated assemblages like slices of rare tuna fanned out with crisp, almost sweet Asian pear ($10). This appetizer looks utterly cool and composed, its rosy pink fish set off by the creamy white pear. But a shower of jalapeno oil knocks it off balance and starts a battle for dominance -- hot? cold? -- that, happily, is never quite resolved. No new ground is broken here, but the dish has a low-key tension that's engaging, and characteristic of the approach taken by the chef, Tyler Kord.
 If you were wise, you also allowed the server to talk you into the appetizer that goes by the name ''fried broccoli, dill, grapefruit, black beans'' ($7). Do these ingredients belong on the same plate? They do. The broccoli is fried tempura-style, then set to rest on an inky hummus of black beans. This earthy pairing gets a refreshing lift from the glossy grapefruit shards in a small frisee salad.
 The kitchen that puts together these clever studies in counterpoint is a tiny station just big enough for Mr. Kord and two cooks. They stand right in the middle of the action, on the way from the bar to the dining room, an open, airy space lined by a horseshoe of white banquettes.
 No. 7 feels lived in, with white subway tiles, marble floors and distressed mirrors, as if it were an old oyster bar that was subtly repurposed. (In fact, it was a hair salon.) The bar has an old New York feel, too, but it is not entirely convincing. A request for a French 75 met with blank stares. To the bartender's credit, after hearing that it needed gin, lemon juice, sugar and sparkling wine, he went on to mix a reasonable approximation. The small bar menu is worth asking for no matter where you sit, especially for the shrimp cocktail ($12). It looks, at first, like a full-on nostalgia trip. But chili peppers and sesame oil give the tomato-horseradish sauce a spicy, bracing update. 
 Mr. Kord does not land everything he launches. The crispy pig head on the bar menu ($15) sounds like an arrow straight to a lard-lover's heart. But nose-to-tail enthusiasts may be taken aback: the dish turns out to be a handful of crispy pork nuggets set adrift in a pork broth with cauliflower that is supposed to be braised but tastes simply boiled. A smoked salmon main course with latkes, applesauce and Calvados creme fraiche ($18) gets tangled up in its own cleverness. A menu this lean -- four appetizers, five entrees -- can't afford any underachievers.
 But the expertly cooked hanger steak with spicy kimchi pirogis ($20) overachieves, and the banana pudding ($7) that should end your meal also ends any quibbles about No. 7. The bananas are stewed in miso, and its salty, savory funk brings sophistication and comfort together in one spoon. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: COMPOSED: Tuna with pear, an appetizer at No. 7 in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY LIFE (73%); DRINKING PLACES (65%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



592 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Comptroller Revises Job Forecast Downward

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
Expecting a national recession to compound the effects of the Wall Street crisis, the New York City comptroller's office is now forecasting that the city will lose 165,000 private-sector jobs over the next two years. 
 That would be almost twice as many as the comptroller's office had projected three months ago, when it said that about 85,000 jobs would be lost. The difference, according to the comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., is that the nation has slipped into a general recession with effects that will spread far beyond the financial services sector and across the whole city economy.
 About one-fifth of those lost jobs, about 35,000, will come in investment banking and other financial services, according to the revised forecast. The previous projection was for a loss of 25,000 jobs in financial services, or almost one-third of the expected total.
 The financial-services sector has had one of the biggest declines this year, while some sectors -- including construction and tourism-related businesses -- continued to add jobs through the summer. But the comptroller's new forecast envisions significant cutbacks in those fields as a recession lingers and the cutbacks on Wall Street ripple outward.
 ''Some of this is a combination of the financial-market downturn, the credit crunch that's having an effect on small businesses and the rest of the nation finally catching up with New York,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''While this is perhaps more abrupt than the last recession, we don't think it's going to be as prolonged.''
 Mr. Thompson also said he expected that the rebounding dollar would lead to a reduction in tourism here. ''Tourism has been up because the euro has been so strong, but in the last few weeks you've seen the euro tumble against the dollar,'' he said.
 The projected losses would amount to about 5 percent of all private-sector jobs in the city, but they would not be as great as in the last recession. In the downturn that lasted from 2001 into 2003, the city lost about 235,000 jobs, according to data from the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the New York City Independent Budget Office, said her office had not updated its forecast of the city economy since the financial crisis worsened this fall. But she said she agreed with the view that the national recession would weigh heavily on a local economy, already beset by the devastation of its leading industry.
 ''We're facing a problem that's both cyclical and structural,'' Ms. Lowenstein said. ''We're going to be affected by the U.S. downturn but there are going to be long-term changes in the financial sector that are going to affect us well beyond this recession. It's likely that those structural changes will be accompanied by a smaller financial-activities sector than we've seen in recent years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TOURISM (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); STATISTICS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



593 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Striving for Balance Between Losses and Laughs

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FOR more than a year, banks, insurance companies and brokerage firms have been running campaigns that address the tumultuous economic conditions. Now, they have company.
 Purveyors of products that are unrelated to finance are getting into the act, placing advertisements that seek to take advantage of the attention the public is paying to Wall Street and the credit crisis.
 ''Life hurts. Laughs help'' is the theme of an online campaign for HBO Video, part of the HBO unit of Time Warner, which sells DVDs of comedy series like ''Curb Your Enthusiasm'' and ''Flight of the Conchords.''
 The campaign cites several situations that require a sense of humor: ''You just opened up a mutual fund. That falls more often than your toddler'' and ''Your 401(k). Now down to $4K.'' The campaign is by Venables Bell & Partners in San Francisco. 
 The headline on magazine ads for cookware from the Crate & Barrel retail chain takes a similar approach: ''Oven-proof. Dishwasher-proof. 401(k)-proof.'' Because the pots and pans are cast iron and enamel-clad, they are ''a lasting investment,'' the ads promise.
 Brooks Brothers is running ads in newspapers that reprint a 1942 pitch about the retailer's suits. ''It pays to buy at Brooks Brothers,'' the vintage ad said, because the most economical clothes ''are those that are made to last.''
 ''Just as our ad stated in the 1940s,'' the current ad declares, ''during these uncertain times, Brooks Brothers is still the investment you can trust.''
 Marketers outside the financial services industry have been running campaigns for several months that are inspired by the faltering economy. Those ads present products as smart buys because they offer value for money, but do not refer directly to why shoppers may be pinching pennies.
 The new ads, by contrast, invoke news headlines in a tactic that is known in marketing as borrowed interest, which hopes to gain attention by riding the coattails of important and topical events.
 For instance, television commercials from the Walt Disney Company, selling tickets for the Broadway musical ''Mary Poppins,'' feature members of the audience who make remarks like, ''You think of everything going on in the world, and it just becomes magic'' and ''So well worth the money, and the uplifting of the spirit in these difficult times.''
 Newspaper ads for Equinox gyms, which carry the headline ''Mind over madness,'' urge consumers ''in these changing times'' to make ''a renewed commitment to yourself to lead a healthy life.''
 And television commercials for the Denny's restaurant chain, promoting the Weekday Express Slam -- a $4 version of its signature menu item, the $5.99 Grand Slam breakfast -- start off this way: ''It's one thing to bail out Wall Street. But who's gonna bail you out?''
 The idea is that ''Denny's is telling its customers: 'Hey, we get it. We're going to give you a break,' '' said Cori Zywotow Rice, president at Hill & Knowlton/Samcor, the public relations agency for the Denny's Corporation.
 ''It is a war right now'' in the breakfast category, Ms. Rice said, as fast-food chains like McDonald's and Wendy's try to take market share from Denny's. So invoking something like the $700 billion bailout bill, she added, can be effective. 
 The Denny's spots are created by the Dallas office of Publicis Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe. Hill & Knowlton/Samcor is the Coral Gables, Fla., office of Hill & Knowlton, a unit of the WPP Group. 
 Ads that play off the financial news can be risky, because the losses involved -- of retirement nest eggs, money, jobs -- are no laughing matter.
 ''It's a fine balance,'' said Dean Crutchfield, a branding consultant in New York.
 On one hand, ''people are having difficulty,'' Mr. Crutchfield said, but on the other, ''it's too big an opportunity to miss.''
 The best approach is to ''find out if it works with your target audience'' before producing the campaign, ''otherwise, it can blow up in your face.''
 One marketer, Volkswagen of America, has decided that referring to the economy in new ads inspired by current conditions -- which will reintroduce a lease promotion called Sign Then Drive -- would not fit with its brand image.
 ''It would be inconsistent with the tonality'' of Volkswagen ads, said Tim Ellis, vice president for marketing in Herndon, Va., which ''take a 'Singin' in the Rain' standpoint regardless of the economic climate -- always optimistic and positive.''
 Volkswagen had planned to bring back the promotion in November, said Mark Barnes, chief operating officer, ''but when we saw the, shall we say, exodus of leasing from the market, we saw an opportunity to bring it forward'' to last Friday. 
 Another marketer shying from mentioning the economy in economy-themed ads is Burger King, which has commercials with its King character playing Robin Hood: He puts money back into the pockets of customers who buy items from the B. K. Value Menu.
 The intent is to play down the problem and play up that ''we have a solution,'' said Rob Reilly, partner and co-executive creative director at the Burger King agency, Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Boulder, Colo., and Miami, part of MDC Partners.
 ''The problem is out there every day,'' Mr. Reilly said. ''Do you really need to make a point of it?''
 Some agencies are not as reluctant. The office of Taxi in Vancouver, British Columbia, created a make-believe stock market to promote an annual presentation of local advertising honors known as the Lotus Awards. Computer users can play an online game (lotusstockexchange.com) to guess who will win the awards on Nov. 13.
 ''The idea is definitely timely,'' said Paul Lavoie, chairman and chief creative officer of Taxi, referring to the campaign, produced by Michael Mayes, creative director at the Taxi Vancouver office. ''And we thought it would offer a bit of lightness, a bit of an escape.''
 ''If we're in the business of making money, yes, it's tough,'' Mr. Lavoie said. ''If we're in the business of ideas, this is the best time for creativity ever.''
 An agency in San Francisco, Wikreate, even gave a ''Celebrate the Crisis'' party last Wednesday. Attendees were asked to shred the financial sections of newspapers and toss the scraps over their shoulders while shouting, ''Crisis, schmisis!''
 ''The crisis is part perception, part reality,'' said Ezequiel Trivino, founder and president at Wikreate (pronounced ''We create''). ''If we are optimists, if we feel we can get out of the crisis, it will be less prevalent.''
 Besides, he added, laughing, the party was organized to ''celebrate in the least-expensive way we can.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wikreate, a San Francisco agency, gave a ''Celebrate the Crisis'' party where financial sections of newspapers were shredded. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (76%); US 401K PLANS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (72%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); MUSICAL THEATER (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (63%); VENABLES BELL & PARTNERS LLC (56%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (63%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (63%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (63%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



594 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Building Boom Ending, A Trade Group Believes

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
New York City's long-running building boom will peak this year, before new office and residential projects peter out in the coming years and the number of construction jobs falls by almost 30,000 by 2010, according to a report released on Tuesday by the New York Building Congress. 
 The building congress, a trade group for construction and real estate companies, estimates that construction spending on new housing, office towers, stadiums, subway tunnels and schools will decline slightly in 2009 before falling to $26.2 billion in 2010, from $33.8 billion this year. But even that forecast may be a bit optimistic. 
 The report noted that construction had already begun on ''the majority of the 15 office towers factored into the 2009 and 2010 estimates.'' But at least one-third of those projects are already in doubt, given the flagging economy, turmoil on Wall Street and the virtual disappearance of construction financing for new projects.
 Few if any real estate and construction executives believe that JPMorgan Chase will build a new tower downtown, at Greenwich and Cedar Streets, as it announced last year that it would, now that it has bought Bear Stearns and Bear's Midtown headquarters.
 Vornado Realty Trust, one of the city's biggest commercial landlords, suspended its plan to build a 23-story, $435 million headquarters for Major League Baseball's cable network, after it failed to secure additional tenants and financing. Vornado's effort to build a 1.3 million-square-foot office tower over the Port Authority Bus Terminal on 42nd Street is also ''dormant,'' a company executive conceded.
 Stephen Sigmund, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, disputed the notion that Vornado's tower over the bus terminal was stalled, saying that planning continues apace with the developer, who is required to meet very specific goals and timetables for the project.
 ''This is such an uncertain situation that it is almost impossible to say with confidence what the forecast for the construction market will be over the next several years,'' said Richard T. Anderson, the building congress's president. ''That's why we posed two scenarios.''
 In the first instance, said Mr. Anderson, who delivered the report to a somber crowd of construction and real estate executives at the Hilton New York, the downturn is short-lived as the federal government steps in to ease the credit crunch, preserving thousands of jobs and projects.
 But a more gloomy situation, he said, involves a prolonged downturn, with private projects coming to a standstill while government slashes funding for mass transit projects, new schools and infrastructure. Currently, capital spending by city, state and federal governments accounts for about half of all construction activity in the city.
 ''You've just got to be optimistic,'' Kenneth J. Knuckles, chief executive of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Development Corporation, whispered to the executive next to him during the presentation.
 The warning signs, however, are everywhere. Unemployment is inching upward, and commercial landlords are nervously gauging the impact of the continuing consolidation of the city's all-important financial industry.
 Vacant space in the city's office towers is no longer hard to find. In Midtown alone, more than 20.9 million square feet of space is available, according to the latest report by Newmark Knight Frank, a real estate broker. The availability rate -- the amount of space vacant or available -- rose to 10.2 percent in September, up from 8.2 percent a year ago.
 Housing construction is also expected to slow drastically, after a spectacular four years in which new apartments, mostly condominiums, were built in virtually every neighborhood in the city. The boom was fueled by a growing demand for housing and the Bloomberg administration's efforts to rezone areas like Williamsburg and the Far West Side of Manhattan for high-rise construction.
 The report estimated that 35,700 housing units would be built this year, up from 31,900 last year. But by 2010, that number is expected to drop to 18,500. At the same time, the number of construction jobs would fall 23 percent -- to 100,250 from a record 130,100 this year. 
 The report confirms that construction and real estate activity tends to be a lagging indicator of economic health. Projects that got under way in the last two years are going forward despite a flagging economy. But experts say that new projects are being delayed.
 ''The thing that's reassuring is how much work is under way,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''This is a very large construction market.''
 Even if construction spending falls to $26.2 billion in 2010, from an estimated $33.8 billion this year, that is still a considerable sum, he said.
 The Goldman Sachs headquarters near ground zero is nearing completion, as is a tower at 42nd Street and Eighth Avenue and a smaller tower at 510 Madison Avenue in Midtown. The steel for the Freedom Tower at ground zero is rising above street level, and uptown, Boston Properties says it will move forward with its proposed office tower at 55th Street and Eighth Avenue.
 The big question, Mr. Anderson said, is whether the city and state will continue their commitment to capital spending on subway expansions, schools and other projects, or be forced to slash their budgets as tax revenues from Wall Street and real estate fall sharply.
 The Bloomberg administration has already stretched out its four-year capital budget to five years. But Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, told construction executives on Tuesday that the Bloomberg administration would continue to maintain important city services and build for the future, with the redevelopment of Willets Point in Queens and the development of a large-scale affordable housing project at Hunters Point South, on the East River waterfront.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BASEBALL (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (68%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); VNO (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



595 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Banks' Bailout Unlikely To Crimp Executive Pay

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Under the bailout plan for the nation's banks unveiled on Tuesday, no heads will roll, as they did in the United Kingdom. No banking executives are likely to go hungry, either. But their parting may not be quite as sweet. 
 The Treasury's plan seeks to take aim at the eight-figure pay packages given to Wall Street executives that have enraged so many Americans in the wake of the country's financial collapse. 
 Banks that get an equity infusion from the government will have to follow some general rules on paying their top five executives. They will be restricted from offering golden parachutes, as rich severance packages are called, and they will have to pay more taxes if an individual's compensation exceeds $500,000. 
 ''The key will be how they implement it,'' said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and has long sought to restrict executive pay. 
 He said he did not think the Treasury plan went far enough, but he praised it as attacking the ''perverse incentives'' that led to the crisis. 
 Compensation experts say that the provisions, though politically prudent to appease public anger, will probably have little real impact on how financial executives are paid in coming years. 
 They predict banks will simply pay higher taxes and will find other creative ways of paying their executives as they see fit. Some say there could even be a sudden surge in compensation as soon as the government program ends, in a few years, leading to eye-popping numbers down the road.
 ''Congress's record of regulating executive pay has been unblemished by success,'' said Kevin J. Murphy, a finance professor at the University of Southern California, pointing to perverse outcomes of past efforts. 
 When Congress limited the tax deductibility of cash salaries to $1 million, for example, it simply led to an explosion in stock options used as compensation and even higher total payouts.
 Like other experts, Professor Murphy expects the $500,000 cap to be largely ignored, with banks willing to accept the tax consequences. For many of the top executives, such a salary would simply not be competitive: ''$500,000 was supposed to be a good week,'' he said, adding that many of these executives would respond to such suggestions by leaving for jobs at unregulated banks or hedge funds. 
 But what Treasury cannot easily achieve under its plan might be achieved temporarily by the weak economy, falling stock prices and frustrated boards who are pressured by shareholders disgusted over past excess, say some experts. ''The market may take care of it just by default,'' said Paul Hodgson, a senior analyst at the Corporate Library, a governance research group.
 The government's sudden sweeping presence may prod some boards to take a harder line, said Charles M. Elson, a corporate governance expert at the University of Delaware. ''Every board is going to be under tremendous pressure on compensation, by shareholders and by the government's investment.'' 
 Some of those discussions have already begun among board members, said Ira T. Kay, a compensation specialist at Watson Wyatt Worldwide. ''These rules will have a chilling effect on executive pay practices,'' he said.
 Severance payments have begun to fall, he said, and he predicts there will be ''much more downward pressure.''
 Of course, there have been past predictions that executive pay would be crimped, but that effect tended to be a more short-term reaction to weak business results, as companies and executives simply adapted. 
 ''Every prediction of the demise of C.E.O. pay has been overstated,'' said Professor Murphy. After the dot-com bubble burst, for example, executives no longer made significant sums through stock options but turned instead to restricted stock. Compensation soon moved upward. 
 The new Treasury rules, which still need to be clarified, also provide some broad guidelines, requiring the banks that get government capital to make sure their compensation packages do not reward excessive risk-taking and instituting a ''claw-back'' rule to force repayment of compensation that was based on results that later prove to be inaccurate. 
 Exactly how some of these provisions will work is unclear, as well as how Treasury will eventually enforce them. 
 Along with banks that get government capital, banks that participate in the government's program to buy targeted assets will have limits on compensation. Banks that sell the government more than $300 million in assets will face significant taxes if they offer a golden parachute to a departing executive. 
 Michael Useem, a professor at the Wharton School, said that while the Treasury proposals have shortcomings in addressing inflated pay packages, Congress had to do something. ''The bigger concern is the need for strong political support of the bailout agenda,'' he said. 
 Banks ignore the provisions at their peril, he argued. ''The spirit of the provision is quite clear,'' he said. ''If executives begin to not follow the spirit of the provisions, they will politically weaken support for what is being done.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); STOCK OPTIONS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



596 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: After Big Rally, Grim Outlook Still Looms on Profits and Jobs

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Michael M. Grynbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The euphoria that swept Wall Street on Monday gave way to a sober reality on Tuesday: a recession, perhaps the deepest one in decades, may be unavoidable.
 A day after the stock market staged one of its biggest rallies in history, buoyed by the government's plan to rescue banks, investors retreated once again. Worries about the economy came to the fore. Many people fear that corporations -- and by extension their workers and shareholders -- will face harder times in the months ahead.
 ''Everything the government has done is not going to prevent further deterioration in the economy,'' said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Bank. ''At the end of all this, what matters is what the economy does.''
 The flow of credit, which has been choked for weeks, began to trickle through the financial system on Tuesday. But the credit markets remained shut to many companies and municipalities. Home mortgage rates, which some had hoped might decline once the government's plans became clear, rose instead. The fear is that the financial rescue will add to an already-swelling federal budget deficit and force the Treasury to borrow heavily in the capital markets. 
 Beaten-down financial shares soared, but shares of many big blue-chip corporations sank as the outlook for profits and employment darkened. PepsiCo, the soft drink maker, said it would cut 3,300 jobs and close six plants. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 76.62 points, or 0.8 percent, to 9,310.99 points. Earlier in the day, the Dow surged 4.3 percent after the Bush administration confirmed that it would invest $250 billion in banks, with about half going to nine large national companies. 
 In addition, the government said it would insure more bank deposits and debt issued by big financial firms. But worries about profits at technology companies sent the Nasdaq composite index down 3.5 percent, to 1,779.01. The decline, however, came before the Intel Corporation, the world's largest semiconductor maker, issued a strong earnings report after the market closed, easing some of the concern that an economic slowdown had hurt its sales. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 stock index fell 0.5 percent, to 998.01.
 Asian stocks were down in trading on Wednesday morning. The Nikkei 225 index fell 1.5 percent, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong was off 2.3 percent.
 Investors said the United States government intervention should help avert a crisis in the financial system by preventing cataclysmic bank failures like the recent bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers. But they added that even if the effort were successful at getting banks to lend more freely than they had in recent months, the initiative would not avert a recession.
 ''Everybody expects the government to do something and have the economy pick up in a quarter or two,'' said Ira Jersey, an interest rate strategist at Credit Suisse. ''All of this will stabilize the markets, but the real economic issues remain.''
 The questions now are how weak the economy will get and how far corporate profits will fall. Economists estimate that the gross domestic product -- the broadest measure of the nation's economic output -- barely grew in the third quarter. The Commerce Department will release that number on Oct. 30, just before the election.
 Companies are just starting to report about their performance in the third quarter, and so far, many blue-chip names have delivered bad news. 
 PepsiCo said on Tuesday that its North American beverage sales fell during the quarter, hurting its profit. Shares of the company fell nearly 12 percent, to $54.40. Shares of other companies that cater to consumers also fell.
 Concerns about technology spending hurt stocks like Microsoft, Intel and Dell, the computer maker. On Monday, Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, warned of a ''fairly significant recession'' that might drive the unemployment rate to 9 percent, from its current 6.1 percent. 
 But on Tuesday after the market closed, Intel reported quarterly earnings that were higher than analysts had expected. Still, the company said demand was weakening in some places. Shares of Intel recouped much of its 6 percent loss for the day in after-market trading.
 Analysts see a long, tough slog for the economy, because credit will remain harder to get and more expensive for businesses and consumers, relative to the recent years of easy money.
 Conditions have improved in some parts of the credit market with interbank lending rates and yields on corporate bonds falling from near-record levels. 
 But in other areas of the market, new concerns surfaced. As investors focused on the prospect of more borrowing by the federal government, they drove down the price of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, the biggest source of financing for home loans. On Tuesday, the Treasury said the federal government ran a budget deficit of $454.8 billion in the 2008 fiscal year, up from $161.5 billion in 2007.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, jumped to 4.08 percent, from 3.87 on Friday. Yields on Fannie Mae mortgage securities increased to 6.09 percent, from 5.92 on Friday. (Bond markets were closed on Monday.) If sustained, that rise in yields could significantly increase the interest rates on home loans.
 The average rate 30-year fixed-rate mortgages on Tuesday was 6.6 percent, up from 6.06 percent a week ago, according to HSH Associates, a publisher of data.
 Those rates might come down once some new policies kick in. Regulators have said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance giants that the government took over in September, will buy more mortgages and lower fees on loans. And the government investment in banks should prompt them to lend more.
 Another corner of the market, municipal finance, was also struggling on Tuesday. Several borrowers like the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York and the states of Ohio and Hawaii put off debt sales because they could not lure enough investors. Municipal bonds have struggled since Lehman's bankruptcy caused a panic among investors and led to forced selling.
 California has had difficulty raising the short-term debt that it needs to tide the state government over until tax receipts come in this spring. The state is raising $4 billion and is offering interest rates as high as 4.5 percent. The state's big offering, which the state plans for Thursday, has made it difficult for other states and cities to raise money.
 ''Other than that special situation the market is closed,'' said John Miller, chief investment officer at Nuveen Asset Management, an investment firm that specializes in municipal debt.
 Yields on municipal bonds jumped to 6.74 percent on Tuesday, up from 5.44 percent a month earlier, according to the Bond Buyer. Because interest payments on most municipal debt is tax free, Mr. Miller and others are hoping retail investors will jump into the market to buy state and local debt for the higher returns they can now earn.
 On Tuesday afternoon, California officials said they had secured commitments from retail investors for $1.84 billion.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) (pg.A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); SOFT DRINK MFG (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); SOFT DRINKS (65%); BEVERAGE MFG (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%); MORTGAGE RATES (53%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); PNC BANK NA (56%); PEPSICO INC (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (82%); PEP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



597 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article and a picture caption on Sept. 23 about Sweden's response to its 1992 financial crisis misstated the government position at the time for Bo Lundgren, who described Sweden's strategy and commented on the United States' proposals for resolving its own crisis. A correction in this space on Sept. 27 repeated the error. He was minister for fiscal and financial affairs -- not finance minister or deputy finance minister. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



598 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: October Auto Sales on Track to Be as Weak as September's

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
October is shaping up to be as miserable a month for automakers as September, according to industry analysts, as lenders tighten financing standards and many consumers steer clear of showrooms because of the weakening economy. 
 Tom Libby, senior director for industry analysis at J.D. Power & Associates' Power Information Network, which monitors car sales on a weekly basis, said the first week of October was ''very, very weak'' for the automakers like September, when industry sales sank to a 15-year low.
 The General Motors Acceptance Corporation, which General Motors dealers use to arrange loans for nearly half of their customers, said on Monday that it would offer financing only to car buyers with credit scores of at least 700. 
 That excludes 42 percent of Americans, according to the Fair Isaac Corporation, which developed the widely used scoring system known as FICO. Other lenders have not announced firm cutoff points, but many have scaled back their lending because of tightening credit. 
 ''The 700 credit threshold is not going to help,'' Mr. Libby said. ''Seeing these headlines day after day, people sort of pull back and get fearful. You can't just erase these events, and psychologically it will take a while to come back.''
 One analyst, Rod Lache of Deutsche Bank, estimated Tuesday that October sales would be down 30 percent to an annualized rate of 11 million vehicles, a rate last seen in 1983. He projected G.M.'s sales to be down as much as 50 percent after its employee discount sale ended in September.
 ''Developments in the credit markets will have broad negative implications for auto sales in the months ahead,'' he wrote in a note to clients.
 Vehicle sales in the United States fell 26.6 percent in September, making it the first month since 1993 when buyers drove fewer than 1 million new cars and trucks off dealership lots. ''The economy continues to weaken, and the job market is continuing to contract,'' said George Pipas, the Ford Motor Company's chief sales analyst. ''Our expectation is that as we move to the fourth quarter that we'll see sales rates similar to what we saw in the third quarter and in September.''
 Plummeting sales mean Detroit's automakers are burning through their cash reserves faster, forcing them to consider ways of maintaining enough liquidity to weather the downturn. G.M., for example, has been in talks with Chrysler about a possible merger for about a month. The industry's woes have extended beyond Detroit. Toyota Motor of Japan is trying to help October sales with no-interest financing offers on 11 models after September sales fell 32.3 percent.
 But those deals, and the myriad other big discounts available right now, appear to be doing little to stimulate sales. Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives car-buying advice to consumers, said the number of visitors who intended to purchase a vehicle soon was 20 percent lower in early October than in early September. That is double the usual decline going into October, which is typically among the worst months for automakers.
 ''If you don't have the best of credit they're really going to be scrutinizing the deal,'' said Jesse Toprak, executive director of industry analysis at Edmunds. 
 But Don O'Rourke, general manager of Mark Sweeney Buick Pontiac GMC in Cincinnati, said the dealership had found financing by turning to private banks and credit unions. 
 U.A.W. Opposes Merger
 Ron Gettelfinger, president of the United Auto Workers, said on Tuesday that he would oppose a merger between General Motors and Chrysler because it would cost some workers their jobs.
 He said the U.A.W. has not had formal discussions with either automaker about a combination of the two companies. ''I personally would not want to see anything that would result in a consolidation that would mean the elimination of additional jobs,'' Mr. Gettelfinger said on WWJ-AM in Detroit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kim Cloud, left, with James Blake, a salesman at Ford dealership in California on Oct. 1. Ford said sales would remain poor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (64%); MERGERS (60%)

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (84%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (84%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (51%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (84%); FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); TYT (LSE) (51%); TM (NYSE) (51%); 7203 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (84%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (84%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



599 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Why How Matters

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I have a friend who regularly reminds me that if you jump off the top of an 80-story building, for 79 stories you can actually think you're flying. It's the sudden stop at the end that always gets you. 
 When I think of the financial-services boom, bubble and bust that America has just gone through, I often think about that image. We thought we were flying. Well, we just met the sudden stop at the end. The laws of gravity, it turns out, still apply. You cannot tell tens of thousands of people that they can have the American dream -- a home, for no money down and nothing to pay for two years -- without that eventually catching up to you. The Puritan ethic of hard work and saving still matters. I just hate the idea that such an ethic is more alive today in China than in America. 
 Our financial bubble, like all bubbles, has many complex strands feeding into it -- called derivatives and credit-default swaps -- but at heart, it is really very simple. We got away from the basics -- from the fundamentals of prudent lending and borrowing, where the lender and borrower maintain some kind of personal responsibility for, and personal interest in, whether the person receiving the money can actually pay it back. Instead, we fell into what some people call Y.B.G. and I.B.G. lending: ''you'll be gone and I'll be gone'' before the bill comes due. 
 Yes, this bubble is about us -- not all of us, many Americans were way too poor to play. But it is about enough of us to say it is about America. And we will not get out of this without going back to some basics, which is why I find myself re-reading a valuable book that I wrote about once before, called, ''How: Why How We Do Anything Means Everything in Business (and in Life).'' Its author, Dov Seidman, is the C.E.O. of LRN, which helps companies build ethical corporate cultures.
 Seidman basically argues that in our hyperconnected and transparent world, how you do things matters more than ever, because so many more people can now see how you do things, be affected by how you do things and tell others how you do things on the Internet anytime, for no cost and without restraint.
 ''In a connected world,'' Seidman said to me, ''countries, governments and companies also have character, and their character -- how they do what they do, how they keep promises, how they make decisions, how things really happen inside, how they connect and collaborate, how they engender trust, how they relate to their customers, to the environment and to the communities in which they operate -- is now their fate.'' 
 We got away from these hows. We became more connected than ever in recent years, but the connections were actually very loose. That is, we went away from a world in which, if you wanted a mortgage to buy a home, you needed to show real income and a credit record into a world where a banker could sell you a mortgage and make gobs of money upfront and then offload your mortgage to a bundler who put a whole bunch together, chopped them into bonds and sold some to banks as far afield as Iceland. 
 The bank writing the mortgage got away from how because it was just passing you along to a bundler. And the investment bank bundling these mortgages got away from how because it didn't know you, but it knew it was lucrative to bundle your mortgage with others. And the credit-rating agency got away from ''how'' because there was just so much money to be made in giving good ratings to these bonds, why delve too deeply? And the bank in Iceland got away from how because, hey, everyone else was buying the stuff and returns were great -- so why not? 
 ''UBS bank's motto is: 'You and us.' But the world we created was actually 'You and nobody' -- nobody was really connected in value terms,'' said Seidman. ''Parts of Wall Street got disconnected from investing in human endeavor -- helping business to scale and take up new ideas.'' Instead, they started to just engineer money from money. ''So some of the smartest C.E.O.'s did not know what some of their smartest people were doing.''
 Charles Mackay wrote a classic history of financial crises called ''Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds,'' first published in London in 1841. ''Money ... has often been a cause of the delusion of multitudes. Sober nations have all at once become desperate gamblers, and risked almost their existence upon the turn of a piece of paper. To trace the history of the most prominent of these delusions is the object of the present pages. Men, it has been well said, think in herds; it will be seen that they go mad in herds, while they only recover their senses slowly, and one by one.''
 And so it must be with us. We need to get back to collaborating the old-fashioned way. That is, people making decisions based on business judgment, experience, prudence, clarity of communications and thinking about how -- not just how much. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); WRITERS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS ETHICS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (67%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (67%); CORPORATE CULTURE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008



600 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 374 words

 BODY:
RESCUE PLAN The chief executives of the nine largest banks in the United States agreed to the Treasury Department's plan to inject $225 billion of capital into the nation's banks. 
 Washington could benefit if banks recover quickly and provide a big profit on the equity stakes the Treasury Department was receiving as part of the financial rescue plan. [B1.]
 The Treasury's rescue plan will restrict pay packages for Wall Street executives, but experts say the provisions will have little real impact. [B1.]
 EUPHORIA DEFLATES A day after the stock market staged one of its biggest rallies in history, investors feared that corporations would face harder times in the months ahead. [A1.]
 CREDIT SQUEEZE The hospital industry is struggling with the credit scarcity that the federal government's financial bailout plan is meant to alleviate. [B1.]
 SMALLER PAYCHECKS The next stage of the economic downturn is likely to revolve around the worst slump in worker pay since the 1930s. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [B1.]
 SPAM RING At the request of the Federal Trade Commission, an Illinois district court pulled the plug on a sweeping spam network that sent billions of unsolicited e-mail messages. [B1.]
 CONSUMER PULLBACK Demand for electronics is falling sharply -- portending extra discounts for customers in coming months but a very unhappy holiday season for retailers. [B1.]
 Apple introduced a thinner MacBook Pro laptop model, seeking to tempt shoppers who may rein in spending during the global economic crisis. [B11.]
 SEEKING HELP As its stock market dropped almost 80 percent, Iceland said it drew $273.2 million from the central banks of Norway and Denmark. [B3.]
 PEPSI TO CUT JOBS Indra Nooyi, below, PepsiCo's chief executive, said the company planned to eliminate 3,300 jobs and close as many as six plants in an attempt to cut costs and refocus efforts on stabilizing its domestic beverage business. [B8.]
 SMALL INVESTORS SUFFER To the tens of thousands of Germans with modest investments backed by Lehman Brothers, the bank's collapse hit close to home. [B3.]
 BORROWED INTEREST Marketers outside the financial services industry are running campaigns inspired by the faltering economy. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B4.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMAIL MARKETING (87%); BANK FAILURES (79%); BAILOUTS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); RETAILERS (71%); LAYOFFS (68%); HOSPITALS (54%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); PEPSICO INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%)

PERSON: INDRA K NOOYI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ICELAND (79%); NORWAY (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008

 
