

1 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: THE MALTA SUMMIT;
Gorbachev Lauds Religion on Eve of Meeting Pope

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ROME, Nov. 30

 BODY:
On the eve of an encounter with Pope John Paul II, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev said tonight that the Soviet Union had erred in long rejecting religion and now needed its moral force to help make his plans for a restructured society work.
''We have changed our attitude on some matters, such as religion, for example, which admittedly we used to treat in a simplistic manner,'' said Mr. Gorbachev, whose meeting with the Pope on Friday will be the first between a Soviet Communist leader and the spiritual guide to the world's 850 million Roman Catholics.
''Now we not only proceed from the assumption that no one should interfere in matters of the individual's conscience,'' he said. ''We also say that the moral values that religion generated and embodied for centuries can help in the work of renewal in our country, too.'' 
''In fact,'' Mr. Gorbachev added, ''this is already happening.''
Mr. Gorbachev travels to Malta on Friday night, where he will meet aboard Soviet and American warships in a Maltese harbor with President Bush on Saturday and Sunday.
His thoughts on religion came in a multi-themed speech that was as much a philosophical reflection as a political statement. In it, the Soviet leader offered a vision of a new Europe, one that would be ''a commonwealth of sovereign democratic states,'' based on spiritual values, pluralism, religious tolerance and mutual understanding.
''The world is on the threshold of an entirely new era,'' he said, and he proposed a 35-nation ''European summit'' meeting next year to consider the swift changes that he said were turning not only Eastern Europe upside down but the West as well.
It would be, Mr. Gorbachev told his Italian hosts, ''a Helsinki 2 meeting,'' an updated version of the 1975 conference that confirmed Europe's borders and set rules governing human rights, economic cooperation and military security. Such a gathering had already been planned for 1992, but he said that rapidly unfolding events required that it be held sooner.
On the second day of a three-day visit here, the Soviet leader also issued a joint statement with Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti of Italy asserting that ''the curtain of mistrust between the East and the West is crumbling'' as one Communist-bloc nation after another succumbs to demands for democratic reform.
 
A Ban on Chemical Weapons
The two men agreed that ''the future international order should increasingly be based on the universal values of freedom, of all forms of national, ethnic and religious tolerance, and of pluralism.''
Looking ahead to his meeting with President Bush off Malta this weekend, Mr. Gorbachev predicted in his speech tonight that their discussions would ''enable us to take a new constructive step in the movement from mutual understanding to mutual action'' in United States-Soviet relations. In the statement with Mr. Andreotti, he said that he wanted an arms-reduction agreement next year that would include a global ban on chemical weapons and a 50 percent cut in both superpowers' offensive strategic weapons.
Mr. Gorbachev's trip to Italy has assumed an importance not foreseen when arrangements for it were begun many months ago. This turned out to be his first chance to talk directly with a major Western country about the tumultuous events in Eastern Europe, and it also has served as a warm-up for his conferences with Mr. Bush.
His speech tonight was billed as a capstone to the Italian part of his journey, before he crosses the Tiber River to enter Vatican City. He delivered it in a meeting room on the Capitoline Hill, the political and religious center of ancient Rome. The room is named after Julius Caesar, which seemed an appropriately symbolic flourish, for there is no question that Mr. Gorbachev has been a conqueror of Roman hearts and minds during his brief stay here.
 
'No Return to the Past'
In his remarks, he talked about the difficulties he faces in trying to restructure Soviet life and what he called the Stalinist legacy of suppressed ethnic problems. To Italy's leaders, he acknowledged that economic hardships persist, including bare store shelves. But the entire Communist bloc, he said, had crossed the Rubicon of change, even if there is also now the danger of political instability in Europe.
''Having embarked upon the road of radical reform, the Socialist countries, one after another, are crossing the line beyond which there is no return to the past,'' he said.
Mr. Gorbachev cautioned Western nations against trying to exploit the turmoil in the East with ''clumsy behavior or provocative statements,'' or viewing recent events as proof of capitalism's triumph over Communism in the cold war. Attempts ''to tilt the events solely to one's own advantage are fraught with chaos,'' he said.
In fact, he insisted, Communism is far from dead and it was ''wishful thinking'' to believe it is. Now, he said, Communism has ''new opportunities for moving toward its just and noble goals, for releasing the enormous humanistic and democratic potential contained in the socialist ideal.''
But ''we have abandoned the claim to have a monopoly on the truth,'' the Soviet leader said. ''We no longer think that we are the best and that we are always right, that those who disagree with us are our enemies.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Mikhail S. Gorbachev with Giulio Andreotti and Eduard A. Shevardnadze (AP) (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); MALTA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); FINLAND (69%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF RELIGION RELIGION (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (66%); NAVAL VESSELS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (61%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



2 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2461 words

HEADLINE: CLAMOR IN THE EAST;
Unease Fills Western Allies Over Rapid Changes in East

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 28

 BODY:
The joyous revolution of freedom sweeping Eastern Europe is confronting Western Europe with some of its gravest decisions in 40 years.
Among the most daunting challenges is how to maintain the movement toward European unity if, as most Western European leaders expect, the West Germans become distracted from that old goal by the newly aroused prospects of achieving German unification - a vision spelled out by Chancellor Helmut Kohl in Bonn on Tuesday.
Another concern questions where the United States and the Soviet Union will fit in the suddenly shifting European landscape. Many Western Europeans think the natural course of events will bind them more closely to the new Soviet Union, which after all shares the same continent, and pry them loose from their security and economic ties to the United States.
 
The Worry Over Germany
The biggest worry of all, to many Europeans, is West Germany itself, increasingly inclined to take charge of its destiny in ways that would have been unthinkable a decade or even a year ago. Mr. Kohl, for example, outlined his ideas for German unification Tuesday without any prior consultation with his allies, though the United States, Britain and France share with the Soviet Union a treaty responsibility for ''Germany as a whole'' that dates back to 1945. 
Conversations with politicians, business leaders, students, writers and ordinary people from Wales to West Berlin in recent weeks leave a clear impression of unease, a sense that without wise actions the dream come true in Eastern Europe could easily turn into unpleasant realities.
What is also becoming apparent is that rapid changes can bring long submerged cultural, historical and political differences of the 12 members of the European Community to the surface. Indeed, this risk has appeared just as those nations are poised to eliminate the remaining trade barriers among their 320 million people by the end of 1992.
The unease is compounded by a feeling that Western leaders have not been saying what they really think about the central problem of a united Germany. For four decades, when reunification appeared impossible, all of them implicitly accepted it by saying that a truly free, united Europe, East and West, was the ultimate goal. Now that the reintegration of Europe and the Germanys no longer looks so distant, said Klaus Bolling, a former head of West Germany's mission to East Berlin, ''We're seeing a tremendous outbreak of hypocrisy.''
''It seems a little bit insulting to Germany to say that it needs to be anchored into Europe,'' Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain said on BBC television Monday night, clearly hoping to anchor the West Germans even more firmly with such expressed sentiments.
''I am not afraid of reunification,'' President Francois Mitterrand of France said in Bonn earlier this month. ''If the Germans want to be a single nation in a single state, this must be founded on the will of the German nation, and nobody can oppose it.'' But officials in Paris now explain that what the President intended by the statement was to calm the fears of many French people over unification, and to encourage the Germans not to be distracted from the unfinished work of building the European Community.
Mr. Kohl tried to reassure other European leaders in Paris on Nov. 18, that West Germany saw ''no alternative'' but to work for German unity within the existing European context.
 
Gorbachev and Reunification
''We agreed not to raise the question of the existing borders,'' Mrs. Thatcher acknowledged, but diplomats in Bonn, Paris and London all agree that the reason German reunification was left off the agenda was the fear that forcing the issue could bring down President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, on whom they think all the fragile changes in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe continue to depend. All the Western European leaders agreed over dinner in Paris on Nov. 18 that Mr. Gorbachev was at a critical juncture and that they should do nothing to undermine his position.
Officially, reunification will not be on the agenda when President Bush sees Mr. Gorbachev off Malta this weekend, but hardly anyone in Europe thinks it can stay off forever.
''To talk about the breakup of NATO does no one any good at all,'' Mrs. Thatcher said Tuesday night. But questions are even beginning to surface at the popular level all over Western Europe about whether there will be any need for an American-dominated military alliance against possible Soviet attack, when or if that threat no longer exists.
 
The Shape of Europe
 
The People Sense A Turning Point
Ordinary people, as well as their political leaders, sense that a historical turning point is being reached. ''We thought we had everything perfect in the Common Market,'' said Janet Semper, who lives in Westminster Abbey with her husband, Colin, a resident canon there. ''We were letting in one country at a time - Spain, Portugal, Greece, and then in comes this wonderful rabble through the Berlin wall and now we have to rethink the whole thing.''
''The instant the Berlin wall comes down, France is no longer the center of Europe - it's on the periphery,'' said Francois Barbey, a 48-year-old real estate salesman in Paris. ''People say we've won. We've come to the end of one world, but we haven't found the key to the next.''
John le Carre, whose master spy George Smiley got his Soviet counterpart, Karla, to defect across the Berlin wall in his 1980 novel, ''Smiley's People,'' put it this way in a recent essay: ''Smiley had won, as the West has won now. But the sweets of victory elude us - as they eluded Smiley, partly because he had forgotten what he was fighting for, partly because he feared that his masters preferred the comforts of permanent aggression to the hardship of new choices and alignments.''
''We really invent the enemies we need,'' the novelist, whose real name is David Cornwell, explained later. ''We could be making the discovery that Russia, once the military threat is removed, is a huge, untidy third world problem that will demand time, effort and money - lots of money - to fix. It could be a terrible headache.''
To many people, the German question already is. ''I don't know what will become of this land,'' Mr. Bolling said in his home in West Berlin. ''There'll be bound to be a cooling off vis-a-vis America as the prospect of a united Germany comes into view. Already the people of West Berlin are complaining about how the three allied military commanders have just bought 10 new Mercedes cars with their money, and they're asking how much longer they have to go on paying for such things.''
Already Lufthansa, the West German airline, is demanding that Britain, France and the United States relinquish their monopoly on flying between West Germany and West Berlin.
''The division into Eastern and Western Europe was a construction of the cold war,'' Heinz Ruhnau, Lufthansa's chairman, told Die Welt the day before the wall came down. ''East and West have to recognize that their status positions can't be maintained any longer after 40 years.''
''We all want a relationship with the United States,'' said Sergio Romano, a former diplomat who was Italy's Ambassador to Moscow until earlier this year. ''But I imagine we would all prefer that it not be so hierarchical as it has been.''
NATO diplomats in Brussels say that the organization, like the Warsaw Pact, will have to convert itself into an instrument for managing change and monitoring complex negotiated arms control agreements over the next few years, but in London, Paris and Bonn, diplomats complain that such thinking is only in its embryonic stage, and not well coordinated.
 
The Forming of a Union
 
Contradictions In the Community
If events in Eastern Europe are only beginning to spark a rethinking of NATO's role, they have uncovered contradictions about the European Community that have existed since the Treaty of Rome established it in 1957. In those early days, President Charles de Gaulle of France insisted that Europe not be a federation but a collection of sovereign, cooperating nation states. De Gaulle called it ''l'Europe des patries,'' and used it as an excuse for keeping out Britain in the early 1960's, because he feared the British would turn the European Community into an Anglo-Saxon United States of Europe.
Now all the European leaders but one - the British Prime Minister -have agreed that the changes in the East require urgently forging ahead to more federalism in the community. ''For the European Community to remain the center of gravity that it is, we must accelerate,'' said Jacques Delors, its executive president, two weeks ago.
Mrs. Thatcher wants to complete the 1992 program, but is wary of surrendering more British sovereignty to the community's executive commission in Brussels, which she says is not fully accountable to any democratic parliament. As Eastern European countries evolve toward political and economic democracy, her close advisers believe, the community should stay loose and flexible. ''This isn't the time to become more exclusive,'' one of them explained.
''I do not believe in a federation of Europe, a United States of Europe,'' Mrs. Thatcher said again on television Monday. ''I believe it will work far better if we cooperate together as 12 sovereign states.''
French officials expect that Mrs. Thatcher will be alone in opposing a call at the next European Community summit in Strasbourg, France, Dec. 8-9, for a conference that would consider changes in the Treaty of Rome to permit full monetary union, though they say they are not sure the Germans will not have developed second thoughts as well.
But if changes in the East continue, the European Community will no longer be limited to the 12, and one of the main subjects on the agenda in Strasbourg will be how to respond to the clamor in Eastern Europe to get in on the prosperity.
The 12 agreed in principle in Paris earlier this month to provide economic aid to all Eastern European countries, but only if they make clear progress toward economic and political democracy. Separately or together, Le Monde calculated the other day, the Europeans and the other industrial democracies have given or pledged more than $6 billion in aid or loans to Eastern Europe, mainly Hungary and Poland, this year.
West German and French officials believe that Bonn is prepared to offer even more than that to East Germany. ''It wouldn't be hard to make a success out of East Germany,'' one French diplomat observed. ''It could be more prosperous than Portugal in five years.''
The larger question behind this is whether Poland and Hungary, and now possibly East Germany and Czechoslovakia, should be allowed or encouraged to join the European Community, with associate membership as a first step.
''The E.C. already has various bilateral 'association agreements' with other countries; more can be struck in Eastern Europe as reform takes hold,'' The Economist newspaper wrote last week, a suggestion that was endorsed by Mrs. Thatcher. A former President of France, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, has suggested that the community tailor these association agreements country by country, and tie them to price reform, privatization and currency convertibility in each one.
Some European leaders speak of a Marshall Plan for Eastern Europe, with a leading role for the West; Le Monde said that Marshall aid from the United States from 1947 to 1948 totaled $13 billion, worth $171 billion today.
''A Marshall Plan now is impossible,'' Prof. Alfred Grosser, a French expert on Germany, said. ''You have hardly anyone in the Soviet Union, and not many in Eastern Europe, who know how to manage a market economy.''
In addition, all Eastern currencies have been pegged at wildly artificial rates against Western ones for years, and to get them down to realistic exchange values will be painful. In West Germany, the mark, now one of the world's strongest currencies, was introduced in June 1948 at a rate of one for every 10 old German reichsmarks, causing tremendous resentment and pain until people regained confidence in their money and the economy started functioning again.
Representatives of 24 industrial democracies, including the European Community, the United States, Japan and South Korea, will meet in Brussels on Dec. 13 for more discussions about how to help. ''The socialist models are collapsing,'' said Francois Perigot, head of the French employers' federation in Paris. ''If all they get from our system is black markets, petty corruption, unemployment and social indifference, they could turn away from our model. Europe shouldn't give them a bad example.''
 
The Soviet Threat
 
Some Confusion Amid Power Shifts
But essentially Europe is confused. No journalist, politician, professor or economic expert saw that change would come so suddenly to so many countries all over the East. What has happened has left many of them in breathless bewilderment.
All ordinary people can see for sure is that a Soviet threat that made them dependent on the United States has receded, and that for better or for worse the Europe they have known for 40 years will rapidly change into something else.
''Everyone everywhere is talking about it, of course,'' said Raymond Kingsley-Taylor, chapter clerk of Hereford Cathedral. ''There's relief, sheer stunned surprise, and apprehension.''
''Europe will become more and more aggressively competitive against Japan, and distance itself from the Americans,'' said Jacques Seguela, a French advertising executive and author in Paris. ''The Soviet Union will be part of this new Europe.'' He will open an advertising agency in Moscow Jan. 1 and two in Hungary and Poland.
Anke van der Valk, a 38-year-old social worker in Delft, the Netherlands, agreed. ''Those Eastern lands belong to Europe,'' she said. ''I think they should join the Common Market.'' But, she added, ''I'm a bit afraid of a united Germany. Better for the two Germanys to remain separate, and let both of them be members of the European Community.''
''All the French public opinion polls show that between 60 and 70 percent of the French people say German reunification wouldn't bother them,'' said Professor Grosser, France's leading expert on Germany. But in the Quai d'Orsay, some diplomats speak of the shelling of Rheims Cathedral in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870 as if it were yesterday.
''National pride caused all the problems we're seeing today,'' said Markus Doll, a 22-year-old student in Hamburg. ''The people who used to say 'We are Germans' now say 'We are Europeans.' For me it's no better. They should say 'We are people, just like everybody else.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WALES (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: IF AS (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, WEST; EUROPE, WEST; EUROPE, EAST; WEST GERMANY; EAST GERMANY; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (62%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (72%); HELMUT KOHL (72%); 



3 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: CLAMOR IN THE EAST;
Czechs Fault Policies of Hard-line Communists as Cause of Industrial Lag

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Nov. 30

 BODY:
Frantisek Kucera, the general manager of the century-old Tos Hostivar Machinery Company, is one of those who lost out in the bargain that the hard-line Communist Government made to keep itself in power - cutting back on crucial investments to keep workers docile by providing them oranges, automobiles and homes.
Like most Czechoslovaks, Mr. Kucera is proud that his country was one of the 10 most advanced industrial nations before World War II, but now he complains that both his company and the nation's economy have slipped badly.
''We gave the Government 90 percent of our profits, but they gave us back very little for research and development and modernization,'' said Mr. Kucera, whose company manufactures machine tools, the metal-cutting machines used to make automobiles, airplanes and appliances.
 
Falling 15 Years Behind
Czechoslovak executives and economists often point to the machine tool industry as a symbol of the nation's decline. Before World War II, Czechoslovak companies like Tos Hostivar were ranked alongside those in Germany and the United States in making the world's most advanced metal-cutting machines. But by the late 1960's the Czechoslovaks had fallen some three years behind Western makers of machine tools, and now with the companies starved of money needed for modernization, they have fallen 15 years behind in key technologies. 
Now that Prague is at least orally committed to political and economic reform, the Czechoslovaks are spoiling to close the gap with the West, but they worry that it will take a long time to overcome the glaring economic errors made by the ousted Communist regime.
These days the Czechoslovaks take little solace that their nation and East Germany have long been the two richest Eastern European countries. In comparison to the economic production of Poland and Bulgaria, Prague was far ahead. But this nation has always thought of itself as being the most western of the Slavic countries, and in their hearts many Czechoslovaks see the proper standard of comparison, at the very least, as Austria and perhaps Belgium or France. And most often they blame Communist rule for having made them fall so far behind.
What has emerged unmistakably here in the last two weeks is that despite the intention of the now discredited Communists to placate workers, those same workers moved to revoke the leadership's mandate. Their overwhelming participation in the two-hour general strike on Monday is seen as a vote of no confidence in the policies and in those who claimed to rule in the name of the working class.
 
Freedom, Not Oranges
''It was a very primitive notion that they could buy off people with more oranges,'' said Ludek Urban, a Czechoslovak economist. ''The Government underestimated the needs of people, especially younger people. They didn't demonstrate for more oranges, but for more freedom.''
On the other hand, the Czechoslovak party's trade-off did seem to work for much of the last decade, when workers and intellectuals in neighboring Poland challenged the authority of the state and party with strikes and clandestine activity. In that time, protest in Czechoslovakia was limited to a small circle in which workers were almost entirely absent.
But now, having won large doses of freedom in the last few days, the Czechoslovaks are beginning to debate how they will use their new-found freedom to transform the economy.
Many economists say they are sure that the wave of democratic reforms will necessarily result in better economic performance. ''The Communist leaders were arrogant, and there was no one to stop them from having incompetents run the economy,'' said Milos Zeman, an economist who stirred a controversy in August in preparing a study for the Government on the nation's economic problems. ''The lack of understanding of economics by the Politburo members was incredible.'' #49th in University Graduates Hard-line Communists did not like the gloomy nature of Mr. Zeman's study, and he was dismissed. In arguing that the Government was robbing the nation's future, he noted, for example, that 6 percent of Czech adults have university degrees, placing a nation that prides itself on being cultured 49th in the world in this measure.
The Czechoslovak opposition has long maintained that there cannot be economic change without political change, a line recently echoed by Prime Minister Ladislav Adamec. He and the key opposition figures say more democracy will mean more accountability, and that should force the Government to find competent people to run the economy.
As teams of experts draft blueprints for the Czechoslovak economy, there is general agreement on two ideas. First, the Government should inject more market forces into the rigid economy. This is expected to help improve the quality of products and help push enterprises to increase productivity.
Second, it is agreed, Czechoslovakia will have an easier time than Poland or Hungary in moving away from Communist economics. But it might have a harder time than East Germany, which can count on special assistance from West Germany.
 
Ahead of Poland and Hungary
''Our starting point for making reforms is probably better than some other nations in Eastern Europe,'' said Vaclav Klaus, an opposition economist who is in the running to be the Finance Minister in the coalition government to be named this week.
The Czechoslovaks have not piled up the huge foreign debts that Poland and Hungary and East Germany have, although they have been criticized for sometimes using loans to buy oranges rather than crucial capital goods. In addition, even if Czechoslovakia's industry is somewhat neglected, its industrial base in steel, coal, machinery and chemicals remains far stronger than those of Poland or Hungary. Czechoslovakia has a deeply embedded industrial tradition, while Poland and Hungary were largely agricultural before World War II.
''We all have fallen about the same amount since Communist rule began, but since we started out as a more advanced country, we still remain better off,'' said Mr. Zeman. He likes to recall how in 1937, Time magazine ran a cover story about the Czechoslovaks and their advanced economy, calling them the ''Yankees of Europe.''
Mr. Zeman and Mr. Klaus are among the economists working in Civic Forum, the umbrella group for the opposition that was crucial in precipitating the fall of the Communist regime. The group's seven-part program says, ''We intend to abandon our long-standing methods of running the economy.'' It said the economic structure dampens motivation to work and has paid little attention to the environment. #47 Percent Want State Control ''We are convinced that this economic system cannot be improved by minor modifications,'' it said. ''We want to create a developed market, not deformed by bureaucratic interventions.'' Civic Forum added that it wanted to establish various forms of ownership, while guaranteeing ''the necessary minimum of public and social services.''
According to one poll, 47 percent of Czechoslovaks want their economy to remain state-controlled, while 43 percent want it to be a mixed economy. Only 3 percent said they favored capitalism. Thus, the Czechoslovaks appear far less eager than the Poles to place state-owned industry in private hands.
''Privatization is not the word I would push here today,'' said Mr. Klaus. ''It's definitely not on the agenda for the next few years.''
Many Czechoslovaks talk of Sweden's social democracy as their model, because of its commitment to equality in social services and its restrictions on the workings of the free market. Many are still enamored of the goal of ''socialism with a human face,'' an ideal made famous by Alexander Dubcek, the leader ousted by the Warsaw Pact invasion of 1968.
 
Denmark Cited as a Model
Denmark is also often cited as a model because, like Czechoslovakia, it has a long tradition of employee-owned and farmer-owned cooperatives. Cooperatives in which people own nontradeable shares can be a way station towards setting up a capital market where shares are traded, many economists say.
Walter Kamarek, an economist, whom many opposition figures favor to become Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister, called today in a news conference for a market economy and a major restructuring of industry.
Mr. Kamarek, the director of the Economic Forecasting Institute, says the nation needs to reduce its reliance on heavy industries like steel and coal, for which there is huge overcapacity in the world. He wants this nation of 15 million to stop spreading itself thin and to invest in specialized industries like electronics and advanced machinery.
At his 2,600-employee machine tool company in Prague's grimy industrial outskirts, Mr. Kucera has not yet begun to think about privatization and restructuring. One thing he is sure of, however, is that the political changes will mean a more decentralized economy and thus more autonomy for management.
''Right now, whenever we get a new order, we are never sure we can get the steel and parts we need to fill the order,'' he said. ''We spend a lot of time on paperwork asking the Government for this or that, instead of devoting our time to developing for the future.''
Tos Hostivar executives also complain that the Western embargo on shipping sophisticated technology to Eastern Europe has made it hard for their company to update its products.
Mr. Kucera hopes that the democratization process in Eastern Europe will persuade the West to lift the embargo to help these countries move ahead.

GRAPHIC: photo of Frantisek Kucera (NYT/Steven Greenhouse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BULGARIA (79%); POLAND (79%); BELGIUM (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); TRENDS (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN



4 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: CLAMOR IN THE EAST;
Survey Finds Americans Favor a Reunited Germany

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
The upheaval in Eastern Europe has left Americans optimistic and ready for even greater change in the region. Two out of three say East and West Germany should be reunited, and an equal number predict that Eastern Europe will be largely out of Soviet control a year from now.
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll found few signs of apprehension about a reunified Germany, even among Americans aged 65 and over, the generation that fought World War II. Only 16 percent of Americans said they thought a reunified Germany would ''try to dominate the world,'' while 73 percent said it would not.
The poll reflects a broader trend, with new surveys in France and Britain showing similar support for a unified Germany. 
Sixty-seven percent of the American public said they felt Germany should be reunited, including 64 percent of those aged 65 and older. Seventy-four percent of the French said reunification was ''desirable,'' although 49 percent said it was desirable only several years down the road, according to a survey published this week by the French newspaper Le Figaro.
And 61 percent of the British public said it would be ''a good idea'' for the two Germanys to reunite, according to a poll conducted for The Sunday Times of London.
 
Germans 'Should Be Together'
Americans justified reunification on the simplest of grounds. ''The German people should be together'' was the explanation volunteered by 51 percent of those who supported it. ''No people should be pulled against the other half of their country, not them or us,'' said Vermadine Beach, 69 years old, of Fairfield, Calif., in a follow-up interview after the survey was completed.
The telephone survey of 1,297 adults conducted Sunday through Tuesday reflected an American public caught up in the political movements sweeping the Eastern bloc. Sixty-seven percent said that based on current events, the Soviet Union would not be in control of most countries in Eastern Europe a year from now.
Even if those countries develop governments where the Communists are not in control, 50 percent of Americans said the Russians would ''let them go ahead'' rather than ''use its troops to crack down''; 31 percent predicted a crackdown.
The public voiced a clear sense of diminished Soviet dominance: 59 percent said the Soviet Union was simply putting up with changes in Eastern Europe that it could not do anything about, while 20 percent said it was encouraging the change. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 
On Soviet Communism
Almost half - 49 percent - predicted that the Soviet Union itself would not have a Communist Government 25 years from now; 38 percent said it would.
There were limits to the American optimism about Eastern Europe. ''I just feel that the leaders are not as willing as people might think to give up their beliefs, or their little areas of power,'' said Carol Cocco, 38, of Marshallville, Ohio, in a follow-up interview. ''I just can't imagine that whole bloc being a total democracy all the way around.''
And while 37 percent said they thought the cold war was over, 54 percent disagreed. Six percent thought the United States and its allies had won the cold war; 28 percent said it was over but neither side had really won.
Much of the public was cautious about the appropriate American response to the changes in Europe. Fifty-four percent said American troop strength in Western Europe should stay at about the same level as it is today; 27 percent said it should be reduced and 7 percent said the troops should be totally withdrawn.
Age made a difference in those judgments, but in a perhaps surprising way: 26 percent of those 18 to 29 said American troops should be reduced or eliminated in Western Europe. But 42 percent of the World War II generation - those aged 65 and over - said they supported a cut or a total withdrawal.
But there was no overwhelming sentiment to slash the Pentagon's budget, a subject of sharp debate in recent weeks. The annual 5 percent cuts under consideration by the Bush Administration for the next three years were supported by 42 percent of Americans. Another 21 percent said those cuts were too little, while 25 percent said the Pentagon's budget should be left alone.
For all the changes in Eastern Europe and the pleas for American aid to help it along, Americans retained a traditional tightfistedness when it came to direct United States assistance. Fifty-six percent said the United States should not increase aid to Eastern European countries that are becoming more independent of the Soviet Union, while 36 percent said it should.
And when asked if the United States should spend at least $1 billion in foreign aid to help Eastern European countries develop stable economies, 57 percent said no and 32 percent said yes. The three-year aid package for Poland and Hungary, recently passed by the Congress and signed by President Bush this week, came to just under $1 billion, and it was criticized by many politicians as too modest.
Benjamin I. Page, a professor of political science at Northwestern University who is conducting a study of American public opinion over the last 50 years, said, ''Large-scale foreign aid is just about always unpopular.''
 
Enthusiasm for More Trade
Sixty-seven percent of Americans said Mr. Bush had not been too slow in reacting to the events in Eastern Europe; the charge of timidity was frequently made by the Democrats this fall, most prominently by George J. Mitchell, the Senate majority leader.
The public showed considerable enthusiasm for greater trade with Eastern Europe: 71 percent favored giving the same international trading privileges to Eastern European countries that the United States gives to other friendly nations, while 19 percent opposed it.
A majority of Americans - 58 percent - said the United States should encourage American businesses to invest in these countries, while 36 percent said it should not.
Support for aid to Eastern Europe and trade with it was higher among those with more education. But support for a reunified Germany was higher among those with a high school education or less: 72 percent, compared to 57 percent of those who had college or postgraduate degrees.
Lech Walesa, the Polish leader who recently toured the United States, had a favorability rating that the average American Presidential candidate yearns for: 40 percent. Only 5 percent had an unfavorable opinion. Another 40 percent said they had not heard enough to develop an opinion.
The British survey was conducted Nov. 23 to 24, in person by MORI for The Sunday Times of London, with 1,071 respondents; it is scheduled for publication there on Sunday. The French survey, published by Le Figaro this week, was based on telephone interviews with 1,000 respondents, conducted Nov. 21 to 23 by the French Organization for Polling Research and Studies.
 
How the Poll Was Taken
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Nov. 26 to 28 with 1,297 adults around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen so as to assure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. The numbers were then screened to limit calls to residences.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of residential telephone lines and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, race, sex, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than 3 percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
The percentages reported are the particular results most likely to match what would be obtained by seeking out all adult Americans. Other possible percentages are progressively less likely the more they differ from the reported results.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for those without college education it is plus or minus four percentage points; for those with college education it is also plus or minus four percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

GRAPHIC: graphs of poll results on American views of events in Eastern Europe

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); TRENDS (78%); WORLD WAR II (71%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN



5 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: THE MALTA SUMMIT;
Bush Heads to Malta Ready For a 'Historic Opportunity'

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30

 BODY:
President Bush left today for his first summit meeting with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, saying the two leaders had a ''powerful and historic opportunity'' to transform East-West relations.
Administration officials said the President was carrying a variety of ideas with him to Malta on speeding negotiations with Moscow to relax legal restrictions on American trade with the Soviet Union.
They said this could lead to a new trade agreement that would take effect if and when Mr. Bush decides to waive the 1974 Jackson-Vanik Amendment. That law prohibits the United States from granting most-favored-nation status to Communist countries unless they allow free emigration by their citizens. Countries with most-favored-nation status can export certain products to the United States with relatively low tariffs. 
Addressing several hundred Administration officials at a farewell ceremony in the White House Rose Garden, the President said the Malta meeting ''represents a point of departure, the beginning of a process as full of promise as any that we've ever known.''
The President said: ''America understands the magnitude of Mr. Gorbachev's challenges, and let there be no misunderstanding: We support perestroika; we support Chairman Gorbachev's efforts to relax the grip of the centralized government, to move toward pluralism and the free expression of ideas. No one can deny that there is a new openness in the Soviet Union. The change is dramatic.''
 
'Not in Some Kind of Competition'
He added: ''I believe the people of Europe can see that Mr. Gorbachev and I - East and West - are not in some kind of competition. Rather, we're both working to make the world a more peaceful one.''
The President departed on his nine-hour flight at 6:45 P.M.
Until now the Administration has held that the President would not waive the Jackson-Vanik Amendment to the 1974 Trade Act until the Kremlin both enacted a new open emigration law and put it into practice. However, American officials note that 51,336 Jews were allowed to emigrate from the Soviet Union in the first 10 months of this year, , topping the previous record of 51,000 in 1979, and that the Kremlin has submitted a new Soviet emigration law to the Supreme Soviet that is expected to be passed around February or March.
As a result, the President is going to Malta prepared to examine ways in which Washington and Moscow might begin to overcome the restrictions of Jackson-Vanik even before the new Soviet legislation is passed, officials said.
The President's advisers want to accomplish something in Malta beyond mere rhetoric, to demonstrate an enthusiastic, forward-looking attitude toward the Soviet leader and a willingness to engage in closer economic relations.
Even if the Jackson-Vanik Amendment is waived by the President, the Soviet Union would not be able to take advantage of most-favored-nation provisions because it has no trade agreement with the United States. Although a Soviet-American trade agreement was reached in October 1972, it was never implemented because of Jackson-Vanik and other trade restrictions, and was eventually abrogated by Moscow.
 
'Laying the Groundwork Now'
As a result, one proposal being carried by the President to Malta is for the United States and Soviet Union to begin negotiations quickly on a new comprehensive commercial trade agreement, even before the Supreme Soviet enacts the pending legislation allowing freer emigration.
A joint Soviet-American commerical commission met for two days earlier this month and formed a group to study how such an agreement would be negotiated. Depending on what the President hears from Mr. Gorbachev, particularly any assurances he might provide on when the Soviet emigration legislation will be approved, Mr. Bush may offer to start negotiations now on a new trade agreement. That way, when Jackson-Vanik is waived, as now seems inevitable, a trade arrangement between the two countries might already be in place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALTA (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (52%); 



6 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Budget Office Proposes $8 Billion Medicare Cut

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30

 BODY:
The White House budget office has proposed saving $8 billion in Medicare spending that would otherwise be required in the next fiscal year under current law.
The budget proposal would mean that the health insurance program for the elderly and the disabled would sustain the largest reduction in terms of dollars of any domestic program, and perhaps any Government program, Bush Administration officials said.
Any such reductions would need the approval of both Congress and the President, and some members of Congress today expressed strong opposition to the proposed cuts for the fiscal year 199l.
In this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, 1990, Medicare spending is set to reach $114 billion. If that same spending rate was sustained for 1991, the Medicare budget would grow to $130 billion. 
But a copy of the budget proposal, which has not been made public, shows that the Bush Administration hopes to keep Federal spending to $122 billion. The $8 billion reduction would be achieved through $5.5 billion in curtailed programs and $2.5 billion in new revenue.
Health-care experts contend that the higher spending rate is needed to maintain adequate services for beneficiaries of Medicare, which provides health insurance for 33 million elderly or disabled people.
''Congress is going to fight this budget,'' said Michael D. Bromberg, executive director of the Federation of American Health Systems, which represents 1,100 private hospitals. ''If you keep drying up money for health care, services will have to be reduced. Either you close emergency rooms and trauma centers, or you fire nurses and technicians.''
 
Opposition Among Republicans
The budget proposal also came under attack from Congressional Republicans. Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the ranking Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee, sent his Republican colleagues in the House a letter today stating, ''Many of America's hospitals -particularly our rural, inner city and teaching hospitals - simply cannot continue to absorb another year of significant budget cuts.'' He asked them to sign the letter, to be sent to President Bush.
Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum, a Kansas Republican, is circulating a similar letter in the Senate.
''Like many, I am particularly troubled by the effect of low Medicare reimbursements on our most vulnerable hospitals - those in rural areas and inner cities,'' Senator Kassebaum wrote. She was among 41 senators who joined 248 House members last year in calling for a one-year halt on further reductions in Medicare hospital payments.
The Office of Management and Budget specifically proposed a $5.5 billion reduction in the growth of spending, mainly through reductions in Federal funds for medical education and capital improvements for urban hospitals, and in a lower hospital reimbursement rate than would occur under current law.
The budget plan also recommended reductions in payments to some physicians, including some surgeons, whose fees were considered excessive by the physician-payment legislation recently approved by Congress.
Much of the $2.5 billion in increased revenue would come from a payroll tax under a proposal to include all new state and local government workers under the health plan.
 
Earlier Move for Cuts
Last year, the Bush Administration also sought major cuts in the growth of Medicare, but Congress restored half the money after the plan met strong opposition from the health industry.
Under the new budget plan, hospitals would receive a 4 percent increase in payments for Medicare patients, based on inflation, rather than the 5.5 percent increase under current law.
Financing of AIDS research and treatment would be slightly reduced, by $7 million, from the $1.6 billion budgeted this year. But funds for research and programs on alcohol and drug abuse would increase by $45 million, to $2.5 billion.
The budget plan would provide $27 billion for the operation of the Department of Health and Human Services, up from $25.2 billion in the current fiscal year. The budget office would reduce the agency's staff to 111,000 employees from 119,500.
The budget office's plan would provide significantly less Federal financing than had been requested by the department of health. The health agency had sought $3 billion more in Medicare spending and $225 million more for AIDS.
 
Health Secretary's Concern
The agency also sought $200 million more than the $1.3 billion budget office proposal for Head Start, and $365 million more than the budget office's $4.2 billion proposed for the Social Security Administration.
Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services, expressed his dismay in a letter to Richard G. Darman, the budget director.
The Secretary said that he appreciated ''the constraints imposed by a difficult deficit reduction target for the coming fiscal year.''
''But I question classifying certain Presidential initiatives as 'beyond what can now be accommodated,' '' he said.
Head Start represented the President's commitment for expanded enrollment of low-income children, Dr. Sullivan said. ''This program is also a key element of the management objective to strengthen families which was agreed upon by O.M.B. and the Department earlier this year.''
Similarly, he said, the Social Security Administration ''must be adequately funded in order to insure that our 132 million workers receive proper credit for all earned wages to which they are entitled.''
Under the budget proposal, the National Institutes of Health would receive $6.6 billion, about the same as its current spending level. The Food and Drug Administration would receive $563 million, up from the current budget of $513 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (54%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN HOSPITALS (54%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN HOSPITALS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE MEDICARE (95%); BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (87%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); AGING (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); TRAUMA CENTERS (70%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



7 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 3; National Desk


HEADLINE: At one of the homes that were visited, a child in a bare room studied near a space heater that provided the only warmth.
Officials Begin Tour to Gauge Mississippi Delta Poverty
At right, two of the commissioners as they toured a house in Yazoo City, Miss. (NYT/Alan S. Weiner)

GRAPHIC: Members of the Lower Delta Development Commission have begun touring parts of the seven-state delta region as they seek ways to address its problems.
The commission has reported that nearly 21 percent of the 8.3 million people in the seven states live in poverty, as against 12.4 percent nationally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTHERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY



8 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Help Mr. Gorbachev Help the West

 BODY:
When President Bush meets President Gorbachev tomorrow, it will be with the best of intentions for improving Soviet-American relations. But it's still not clear that he has a clear and compelling strategy for doing so.
The goal of such a strategy can be quickly stated: Help Mr. Gorbachev keep doing those things that advance Western interests as well as his own. There are three principal ways: Negotiate deep arms reductions to permit deep cuts in military spending; reach understandings about Eastern Europe to minimize potential friction, and take immediate practical steps to assist the faltering Soviet economy. 
After temporizing, Mr. Bush now states unequivocally that Western interests lie in the success of Mr. Gorbachev's reforms. Make no mistake about the importance of that admission.
It is Mr. Gorbachev who has reduced Soviet military forces, granted limited internal freedoms and encouraged the openings in Eastern Europe. It is he who is thus doing precisely what the West has long demanded, and spent trillions of dollars to achieve. Soviet economic weaknesses would have compelled any leader to retract the Bear's claws and controls. But it was far from inevitable that the change would be so profound.
Mr. Gorbachev might fail. Reports persist about empty food shelves, potentially crippling strikes, rampant crime and anti-Semitism and a bleak winter ahead. It would be unwise to assume he is not in jeopardy. And it would be foolhardy to believe that, if he loses, he will be succeeded by benevolent reformers. Chaos and misery breed absolutists and hard-liners.
To prevent this and help Mr. Gorbachev further devolve central power, the United States and the West can follow a three-pronged strategy:
Arms Control. Both the Soviet Union and the U.S. want to reduce arms expenditures and concentrate on other needs. The best way is mutual arms reductions on an unprecedented scale. The mutuality is necessary so that leaders in both countries can counter hard-line opposition. The biggest payoffs right now would come from treaties to halve strategic nuclear arms and make substantial cuts in European-based conventional forces. Mr. Gorbachev has already agreed to vastly disproportionate reductions. There's new talk that Mr. Bush is contemplating even greater mutual conventional cuts; those would be all the more welcome.
What's necessary is to close out these talks quickly. Even with optimistic assumptions, it will take years to actually start receiving arms control dividends.
Understandings on Europe. Both sides are concerned about the transition occurring in the former satellite states, and about German reunification. Mr. Gorbachev has asked that the West not take advantage of the situation, and Mr. Bush has promised restraint. Yet Mr. Gorbachev continues to call for an even ''more rapid pace of change'' in Eastern Europe. And while the West can only applaud that, both sides know that more change will necessarily diminish Soviet influence. Western credits, goods and know-how will soon flood the area.
Practical Economic Assistance. It's a wonder that grim economic conditions in the Soviet Union are not worse. Soviet economists continue to stress the need for immersing an untrained people in a cold capitalist bath. They plead for membership in international trade and financial institutions.
These theoretical concerns have long-term validity but can do little now to fill shelves that are already empty and stomachs that may soon be so. Just as the West now agrees that Eastern Europe will need help, so it must be willing to respond to requests from Moscow to ease the pains of transition. That means being ready to make loan guarantees and lift trade and other restrictions, as apparently now planned by the White House. Without help in satisfying consumers, conditions could ripen for counterrevolution.
The Bush and Gorbachev Administrations have already been talking about arms control, Eastern Europe and economic relations. What has been lacking on the American side is concentration on the goal of helping Mr. Gorbachev to help the West, now. The Malta meeting is the place to start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



9 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
When Farming Was the Soul Of Garden State

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J.

 BODY:
For more than 50 years, Lloyd Wescott ran a dairy farm in Hunterdon County about 30 miles west of here, on the Delaware River. Two years ago he sold it. At the age of 80, he was growing old for farming, and the dairy business simply was not making it.
He sold most of the farm - 250 acres - for $1.2 million. He could have received more, much more, selling to a developer. But he wanted the place to remain a farm. 
And it is, although the milk cows have been replaced by horses, and no ordinary horses at that. ''Dressage horse,'' said Mr. Wescott, the kind that compete at horse shows and the Olympics, ridden by the likes of Princess Anne. They are highly bred, highly trained and highly expensive.
''The big orchard right next to me, they now have Arabians,'' Mr. Wescott said. ''Fellow showed me one the other day and said, 'This horse, I paid $85,000 for.' ''
Mr. Wescott was on hand on Monday at the dedication of the New Jersey Museum of Agriculture on the campus of Cook College, the agricultural and environmental college at Rutgers University. Gov. Thomas H. Kean, who dedicated the intentionally barnlike $3 million complex that will be stuffed with 2,659 agricultural implements dating from the 18th century, said its intent was to ''keep the word 'garden' in 'the Garden State,' '' amid ''fear that the state will lose its link with its agricultural past.''
That does not seem to be an idle fear. Although farming is far from a museum piece, it is in sharp decline. Beyond Mr. Kean's observation that his own children did not know that Jethro Tull was the inventor of the horse-drawn seed drill and not just a rock band, agriculture here is undergoing an enormous squeeze and a transformation.
Mr. Wescott recalled that he sold his last farm horses for about $50. Of course, that was in the 30's, when he had his first dairy farm, 800 acres near Clinton. The area is now under water, a victim of progress, flooded by the Spruce Run Reservoir.
New Jersey is the most densely populated state, and with urban and suburban sprawl come land-use conflicts. Suburbanites tend to resent crop-dusters' buzzing over golf courses and skyrocketing land costs. The old ways just don't pay. Another visitor to the dedication ceremony was Edgar Van Zandt of Flemington, who donated a windmill erected by his father, a tractor dealer, in 1910. Mr. Van Zandt, 61, also sold tractors. But the tractor business in New Jersey and across the country has virtually collapsed. Since 1980, Mr. Van Zandt has been a consultant for the Farmers Home Administration. It is adapt, or die economically. Forty dairy farms went out of business last year, leaving 380, and many of those are in trouble. New Jersey now produces more horses - show horses, racing horses and even rodeo horses - than it does dairy cattle. The growing of meat and potatoes is quickly yielding to the cultivation of lawns and shrubs.
''New Jersey used to be a leading poultry producer,'' Mr. Wescott said. ''Now you can hardly find a hen.'' An assistant dean at Cook, Veronica M. Malone, said poultry and eggs were the state's biggest agricultural commodity in 1960, followed by dairy products and vegetables.
But the farmers appear to have beaten their plowshares into lawnmowers, to maim a metaphor. The biggest share of agricultural income these days, about $180 million at last count, in 1985, is growing. That comes from nurseries and greenhouses and sod, to green up the state's rolling tide of lawns, village greens and golf courses.
In 1961, the state had 18,000 horses and 128,000 milk cows. Today it has 60,000 horses and 31,000 milk cows.
Phillip Alampi, vice president of the agricultural museum and, for 26 years, until retiring in 1982, state Agriculture Secretary, recalled that in the early 80's, partly as a result of soaring taxes, the state lost six farms a day. Basing taxes on agricultural land values rather than development values helped the situation, Mr. Alampi said, adding, ''We slowed it to one farm every six days.''
In 1960, there were 15,800 farms on 1.5 million acres. Last year there were 7,400 farms on 830,000 acres, a decline of about half. The definition of a ''farm'' is a site that produces crops worth $1,000 or more a year.
Walt Ellis, in his 50's, is still an active farmer - ''a couple hundred acres of sweet corn'' - but said: ''The changes in agriculture are substantial. The plethora of regulation, overregulation of pesticides, land-use regulations is creating the specter that has the potential of taking away the value the farmer has worked for all his life.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY MUSEUM OF AGRICULTURE; COOK COLLEGE (RUTGERS UNIV); RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE DAIRY FARMING (90%); HORSES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (78%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); POPULATION DENSITY (68%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (66%); GOLF (61%); SUBURBS (60%); MAMMALS (55%); 

PERSON: KING, WAYNE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 



10 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Rohatyn Urges Dinkins to Hold Spending Line

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Felix G. Rohatyn, the chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, has warned that Mayor-elect David N. Dinkins should plan to hold spending in next year's New York City budget to the level of this year's revenues, in a drastic no-growth approach.
In an unusual letter Wednesday to the board members of his fiscal watchdog agency, Mr. Rohatyn also said the prospects for economic growth were so dim that Mr. Dinkins should consider deferring raises for city workers next year, or negotiating only modest increases below inflation and then reducing the work force through a hiring freeze and attrition.
As a member of Mr. Dinkins's council of economic advisers and transition team, Mr. Rohatyn, a general partner at the investment banking concern Lazard Freres & Company, has given him similar counsel in private. But his letter is effectively a public challenge to the Mayor-elect to heed that advice and to severely limit his options for new spending and programs when he takes office on Jan. 1. 
 
Persistent Shortfalls Cited
Mr. Rohatyn, who has long argued that the municipal work force and salaries grew too fast in the boom years of the 80's, said Mr. Dinkins must use extreme caution in planning the budget for the fiscal year that begins next July. He said he based his views on ''the consensus of economic forecasters'' and on persistent shortfalls in almost all city tax receipts.
Just yesterday, Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin reported that city tax revenues grew 6.2 percent in the four months since July 1 compared with the same period last year, below the 8.3 percent expected in the city's latest financial plan, and well below the 9.8 percent predicted when the budget was adopted in June.
Mr. Rohatyn's letter said, ''The underlying economic and fiscal forecasts call for the new budget to be prepared at the same spending level as the current year, after a decade which has seen city spending double.''
He said the city must ''take steps to strategically allocate relatively scarce resources, within the $26.5 billon level of this year's budget for next year's spending.''
''In addition to establishing clear priorities for limited funding,'' he added, ''the city must begin immediately to establish and implement a program of large-scale management reforms, in which nothing is sacrosanct.''
 
'One Way of Looking at It'
A spokesman for Mr. Dinkins, David Fishlow, said the Mayor-elect had met with Mr. Rohatyn on Wednesday and had seen the letter. ''He has not yet adopted those recommendations as his policy, but will consider them along with other advice that he gets,'' Mr. Fishlow said.
The city's Budget Director, Paul Dickstein, said that he had not seen the report, but that holding next year's budget at this year's level would force a $1.7 billion reduction in services because of inflation and projected increases in workload, labor settlements and other mandated costs. ''And in my opinion that would be disastrous for the city,'' he said. ''You would be laying off thousands and thousands of people, no doubt in the Board of Education and, I expect, the Police Department.''
Mr. Dickstein also said he believed such a Draconian approach would end up generating a revenue surplus.
Mr. Rohatyn, asked in a telephone interview yesterday whether he thought his proposal had a realistic chance of being adopted, replied: ''Look, I don't know. But I also don't know what the situation is going to be at the end of April.''
 
Tradition of Forceful Advice
''It just seems to me that everything that I have seen keeps getting worse and worse,'' he said. ''Clearly, these are things that I have discussed with the Mayor-elect. But the fact that you give advice doesn't mean that that advice is necessarily followed, nor do I expect it to be, necessarily. He's going to have his own pressures and problems to deal with.''
Mr. Rohatyn's letter stands in the tradition of forceful advice that he established in the city's fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, when the Municipal Assistance Corporation was created to help the nearly insolvent city raise money in the bond market.
Some officials in city government and civic group leaders saw Mr. Rohatyn's letter as an effort to remind Mr. Dinkins, lest there be any doubt, that he still considers himself a force to be reckoned with, and that Mr. Rohatyn was weighing in even more firmly on the side of fiscal conservatism as Mr. Dinkins struggles with the demands of his diverse constituencies, many of whom are seeking increased services.
''This is an effort to keep himself in the front of the agenda,'' Mr. Dickstein said. ''Everybody who comments on the city's budget agenda says the same thing about the problems out there. Felix says it more often and more publicly. But I would not infer from that that he has any indication that the Dinkins administration isn't prepared to do what it's going to have to do.''
An official of a civic group that studies municipal fiscal affairs, who spoke on condition of anonymity, called Mr. Rohatyn ''a sort of spear-carrier for a certain set of views.''
''And whether he picked it up as a result of conscious meetings with people in the business community or just has his usual good sense,'' the official said, ''the sum and substance of it is to create a mood that's going to cut down David's flexibility.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (70%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WAGES AND SALARIES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: ROHATYN, FELIX G; PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES)



11 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: THE LAW;
For the Record

 BODY:

Texas Lawyer's Creed
Last month the Texas Supreme Court and the Court of Criminal Appeals adopted the ''Texas Lawyer's Creed - A Mandate for Professionalism,'' citing abusive tactics that ''ranged from lack of civility to outright hostility and obstructionism.'' The following excerpt is from the creed.
 
Our Legal System
I am passionately proud of my profession. Therefore, ''My word is my bond.'' 
I am responsible to assure that all persons have access to competent representation regardless of wealth or position in life.
I commit myself to an adequate and effective pro bono program. . . .
 
Lawyer to C<u1>l<u1>i<u1>e<u1n<u1>t
. . . I will endeavor to achieve my client's lawful objectives in legal transactions and in litigation as quickly and economically as possible. . . .
I will advise my client that civility and courtesy are expected and are not a sign of weakness. . . .
I will treat adverse parties and witnesses with fairness and due consideration. A client has no right to demand that I abuse anyone or indulge in any offensive conduct.
I will advise my client that we will not pursue conduct which is intended primarily to harass or drain the financial resources of the opposing party. . . .
I will advise my client regarding the availability of mediation, arbitration and other alternative methods of resolving and settling disputes.
 
Lawyer to Lawyer
I will be courteous, civil and prompt in oral and written communications.
I will not quarrel over matters of form or style, but I will concentrate on matters of substance. . . .
I can disagree without being disagreeable. I recognize that effective representation does not require antagonistic or obnoxious behavior. I will neither encourage nor knowingly permit my client or anyone under my control to do anything which would be unethical or improper if done by me. . . .
 
Lawyer and Judge
I will always recognize that the position of judge is the symbol of both the judicial system and administration of justice. I will refrain from conduct that degrades this symbol.
I will conduct myself in court in a professional manner and demonstrate my respect for the court and the law. . . .
I will be punctual.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS (84%); SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; LAWYERS; ETHICS; COURTS APPEALS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ETHICS (89%); LEGAL ETHICS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); PRO BONO LAW (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); 



12 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
Lackluster sales at several major retailers may foreshadow a difficult holiday season. But one favorable omen was that selling momentum picked up over the Thanksgiving weekend. [Page D1.]
Consumer spending fell in October to its lowest level in nearly three years, the Commerce Department said, and analysts said continued sluggishness in personal consumption was likely to be a significant drag on the economy in the fourth quarter. [D5.] 
Prices farmers received for raw products rose by 1.4 percent in November over the previous month, primarily because of higher prices for strawberries, milk, eggs and celery. [D5.]
 
 
 
Companies
Drexel Burnham Lambert will require its best-paid employees to take a portion of their year-end bonuses in Drexel stock rather than in cash, the firm said. [D1.]
A continental breakfast will soon include a bowl of Cheerios if General Mills get its way. The food company and Nestle are creating a company to sell breakfast cereal in Europe. [D1.]
Turner Broadcasting will pay the N.B.A. $275 million over four years, nearly three times what it now pays for rights to the basketball games. [B13.]
Campeau set a Dec. 8 deadline for initial bids on its Bloomingdale's stores and decided that it would not accept any offers under $1 billion, retail and merger-acquisition executives said. [D4.]
Huffington put itself up for sale and analysts said it could fetch close to $1 billion. The privately owned energy company is based in Houston. [D4.]
Layoffs were announced by Lockheed, Ford, Sikorsky and Gerber, while Kodak and U S West announced programs under which employees would leave voluntarily. [D4.]
 
International
The head of Deutsche Bank was killed when terrorists detonated a remote-control bomb, demolishing the automobile in which he was being driven to work. Alfred Herrhausen, the head of the bank, was often described as the most powerful person in West Germany's economy and a dominant figure in European banking. [A1.]
The U.S. and its allies should respond to the reforms in Eastern Europe by relaxing controls on advanced technology to Communist countries, Deputy Secretary of State Eagleburger said. [D2.]
 
 
 
Markets
The S.E.C. accused a typesetting supervisor of illegally trading on confidential information from advance copies of Business Week magazine. The case could be an important test of the boundaries of the Federal law banning insider trading. [D2.]
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 17.49 points, to 2,706.27, and advances on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered declines 837 to 629. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds rose in moderately active trading, as weaker-than-expected economic reports gave rise to renewed hope of credit easing. [D15.]
Pork belly futures prices plunged the daily limit for the third straight day on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. [D16.]
The dollar was mostly lower in light trading amid uncertainty about the nation's economy. [D16.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Economic issues will be crucial as the summit talks open between President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D1.]
Many analysts agree that West Germany stands the best chance of reaping big near-term gains from the changes in Eastern Europe. Market Place. [D8.]
''Colossal'' is the word Madison Avenue favors for the high-tech and novelty approaches being tried this holiday season, particularly by importers of premium vodkas. Advertising. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (56%); NESN (SWX) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%); CME (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (56%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (56%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MILLS INC (56%); NESTLE SA (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); CME GROUP INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BOND MARKETS (84%); RETAIL SALES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); MERGERS (74%); FUTURES (74%); PORK (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); INSIDER TRADING (69%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); BONDS (66%); TERRORISM (63%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (63%); 



13 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Aid for East Bloc Expected To Be a Vital Summit Topic

BYLINE: By LEONARD SILK

 BODY:
Economic issues will be crucial in the talks between President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev off Malta this weekend.
Both leaders have made clear their recognition that finding solutions to the economic problems racking the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe would be in their mutual interest -and could be critical to the world's future peace and prosperity.
The solutions are likely to require new forms of military, political and economic collaboration between the most powerful capitalist nation and the most powerful Communist nation. But both have been losing dominance within the blocs they lead, because of economic strains stemming in large part from their military rivalry. 
Oddly, after four decades of cold war, the issue of the day is how the United States can help the Soviet Union avoid an economic disaster -and what changes would be required on the Soviet side.
''The most important thing we can do,'' Prof. Abram Bergson of Harvard, a leading authority on the Soviet economy, said in an interview yesterday, ''is to move ahead on arms control that would result in cutting military expenditures.'' He considers the most serious economic problem the Soviet Union faces to be its enormous budget deficit, which is running this year at 90 billion rubles, or about 10 percent of its gross national product.
This huge deficit, roughly triple that of the United States relative to G.N.P., causes Soviet inflation; price controls repress that inflation but instead result in critical shortages of all kinds of consumer goods. ''Defense cuts are the most effective way Gorbachev has to restrict the deficit,'' Professor Bergson said, ''but he needs us to join in.'' Another way the United States can ease the economic problems of the Soviets is to open up the American market more widely to their exports, enabling them to earn the foreign exchange and pay for the imports they need. President Bush is prepared to lift trade restrictions if Moscow assures him that the Soviet Union will ease its curbs on emigration, Administration officials said yesterday. At present, the Jackson-Vanik amendment denies most-favored-nation status to the Soviet Union as a ''nonmarket economy'' that restricts emigration for political reasons.
Jackson-Vanik also denies American businesses seeking to export to the Soviet Union access to Export-Import bank loans and guarantees of credit. Further, even if Jackson-Vanik were waived by the Administration, the Stevenson amendment flatly limits the amount of credit that could be granted to exporters to a total of $300 million over four years.
The Soviet Union at present does not have a large volume of goods to export, but it regards Jackson-Vanik as of great symbolic importance in showing American discrimination against Soviet goods. Until now, American economists have criticized Mr. Bush for moving on the Jackson-Vanik issue ''with all deliberate slowness.''
Also in the trade area, the United States has been slow to reduce technical controls on American exports to the Soviet Union - more so than other countries. A report by the National Academy of Sciences concluded that the United States had been overly restrictive in limiting exports of advanced technology to the Soviet Union, unnecessarily hampering United States-Soviet trade.
A central issue is whether the United States should mobilize large sums of capital to lend to the Soviet Union to help it through its present troubles - and, indeed, whether the Soviet Union would be wise to become a huge borrower, like the developing countries or, for that matter, Poland, Czechoslovakia or Hungary.
George Soros, the president of the Quantum Fund, who has been closely involved in seeking to further economic reforms in Hungary, Poland and the Soviet Union, has proposed to have the United States quickly take the lead in establishing a international financial agency, separate from the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank, for the purpose of lending to the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries. The new institution would get only part of its capital from the United States, given its budget and balance-of-payment problems, but most from Japan, West Germany, and other industrial countries.
He would link this new institution to measures to make the Soviet ruble convertible, facilitating the Soviets' joining into the world economy and domestic economic progress. Mr. Soros calculates that since the current Soviet budget deficit plus the so-called monetary overhang amount to a total of about 350 billion to 400 billion rubles and since the black market rate of the ruble is now about 15 rubles to the dollar, it would require hard currency credits of only $25 billion to stabilize the ruble.
Felix G. Rohatyn, senior partner of Lazard Freres & Company and chairman of New York State's Municipal Assistance Corporation, urges emergency aid of food, fuel and clothing for the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe and has taken an approach similar to Mr. Soros's, calling for a new institution, which he calls a Development Bank for Eastern Europe. He suggests that the bank can be started with the Western countries and Japan putting up just $5 billion and, like the World Bank, the new institution could borrow additional billions in the public markets.
But some skeptics - including bankers who have been involved in the problem of third world debt - put heavy stress on the importance of economic reforms by the Soviet Union or other Eastern European countries, if the foreign capital is not to be wasted or even to be counterproductive. William R. Rhodes, group executive of Citicorp, who has served as chairman of the Restructuring Committee for negotiating with the Latin American and other debtor countries, said in an interview, ''I think the key to American private-sector involvement in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe is the extent to which these countries are prepared and able to open up their economies and privatize.''
The financial markets will be looking at the Bush-Gorbachev meeting - and any surprises it produces - for signs of a whole new era in world trade and investment. Mr. Bush has warned against expecting surprises, but that has not dampened expectations of new opportunities blooming. He has plenty of options to discuss. As George Perry of the Brookings Institution put it, ''The important thing is that President Bush leave all possibilities open.'' Indeed, the President appears to be headed for the summit meeting in that spirit.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); MALTA (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF INDIA (51%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN (51%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF KOREA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MALTA; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); BUDGETS (79%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (62%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BERGSON, ABRAM (PROF) GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



14 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Retailing Sluggish in November

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Lackluster sales at several major department stores raised the specter of a disappointing holiday season, as the nation's big retailers reported yesterday on their November performance.
One favorable sign, however, was that selling momentum picked up late in the month, especially over the Thanksgiving weekend.
The nation's largest retailer, Sears, Roebuck & Company, said sales fell 1.3 percent in the four weeks ended Nov. 25. Sales at Sears stores open at least a year, called same- or comparable-store sales, edged up just four-tenths of 1 percent. 
 
Gains for K Mart
The K Mart Corporation, the second-largest retailer, said sales rose 7.2 percent while its same-store sales grew 3.9 percent. K Mart's four-week sales period ended on Nov. 22, before the Thanksgiving weekend.
The Wal-Mart Corporation, the No. 3 retailer, reported a 27 percent increase in November sales. Its same-store sales rose 12 percent.
Same-store sales are regarded as a better reflection of a retailer's performance than results that include newly opened stores. New stores often benefit from retailing momentum because of their novelty.
A Commerce Department report released yesterday on personal income and spending confirmed consumer caution. The report said consumer spending fell two-tenths of 1 percent in October - the sharpest monthly decline in nearly three years - despite an increase in income of nine-tenths of 1 percent. [Page D5.] Analysts were divided as to what the figures indicated.
''I would say basically we're off to a good start,'' said Daniel Barry, an analyst for Kidder, Peabody & Company.
 
'Touch and Go'
But Gary Saunders, an analyst for Josephthal & Company, said: ''I think it's touch and go. A lot of the discounters and big department stores have serious concerns for good reason. The likelihood is that it's going to be a very tough Christmas.''
Generally, sales of durable goods are expected to remain sluggish, and further promotional sales could eat into profits during the holiday retail season, which accounts for up to half of retailers' annual earnings.
Mass merchandisers - stores that carry a high proportion of durables like furniture, refrigerators and carpeting - could have the toughest time. Consumers, whose spending makes up about two-thirds of total economic activity, have been holding back on purchases of costly items.
Bernard F. Brennan, chairman and chief executive of Montgomery Ward & Company, said consumer restraint was reflected in the company's November results.
''Holiday sales are off to a slow start due to continued economic pressures affecting big-ticket purchases and weather conditions that have negatively impacted apparel sales,'' he said.
Analysts blamed unusually mild weather in California for sluggish sales of warm clothing and other winter gear. But over all, apparel stores did better than general merchandise chains, continuing a pattern that has persisted all year.
Forecasters say the economy's weakness will make shoppers hold back a bit this year, and holiday sales are expected to rise only about 5.5 percent, compared with 1988's surprisingly strong 9 percent gain.
Many store owners are already resorting to discounts, and those that need cash to meet their parent companies' debt payments have been especially aggressive with markdowns.
Following is a list of domestic sales for November reported by a number of the nation's largest retailers:
 
Carter Hawley Hale Stores, up 4.7 percent, to $261.5 million, excluding sales from the Oakland, Calif., store.
Dayton Hudson Corp., up 8.4 percent over all, to $1.13 billion. Up 1.7 percent in same-store sales.
J. C. Penney Co., up 6.6 percent over all, to $1.48 billion. Up 6 percent in same-store sales.
K Mart Corp., up 7.2 percent over all, to $2.42 billion. Up 3.9 percent in same-store sales.
Limited Inc., up 14 percent over all, to $410 million. Up 9 percent in same-store sales.
May Department Stores Co., up 6.6 percent over all, to $867.7 million.
Melville Corp., up 10.6 percent over all, to $674.7 million.
Montgomery Ward & Co., down 2.1 percent over all, to $530.5 million.
Sears, Roebuck & Co., down 1.3 percent over all, to $2.96 billion. Up four-tenths of 1 percent in same-store sales.
TJX Cos. (formerly Zayre Corp.), up 10.2 percent over all, to $208.5 million.
Wal-Mart Corp., up 27 percent over all, to $2.64 billion. Up 12 percent in same-store sales.
F. W.Woolworth Co., up 12.8 percent over all, to $411 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (84%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (85%); WAL-MART STORES INC (84%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (84%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (66%); JOSEPHTHAL & CO INC (65%); MONTGOMERY WARD & CO INC (61%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; HOLIDAY TRADE RETAILERS (93%); RETAIL SALES (92%); SAME STORE SALES (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TICKET SALES (73%); SALES PROMOTIONS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); WEATHER (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 



15 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Technology Code Review Urged by U.S.

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30

 BODY:
The United States and its allies should respond to the reforms sweeping Eastern Europe by relaxing controls on advanced technology to Communist countries, Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger said today.
''We and our Cocom partners will want to signal our clear willingness to respond constructively to the democratization under way in Eastern Europe,'' Mr. Eagleburger said at a conference at the State Department on government-business relations.
Cocom, the Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls, is a group of 17 Western nations formed more than 40 years ago to prevent high-technology goods from reaching the Eastern bloc. 
 
Willingness to Negotiate
Mr. Eagleburger stressed that he was not announcing a new policy but rather the willingess of the United States to negotiate changes in current rules.
''The best I can say without going too far, because it's going to take negotiations and time, is that I think you will find the United States and hopefully our allies prepared to recognize that we have to adjust Cocom and our whole concept of technology transfer to the East to the new realities,'' he said.
On Wednesday, a committee of business and labor advisers to the United States trade represenative, Carla A. Hills, called on the White House to give priority to streamlining export controls.
The group warned that if the United States did not move quickly, Europeans would buy fewer American high-technology goods and would cut United States companies out of cooperative research projects.
Mrs. Hills said the group's recommendations would receive ''careful attention.''
 
'Not an Obstacle'
Another United States official who insisted on anonymity said Mr. Eagleburger is trying to tell American companies that Cocom rules would not rob them of business opportunities as Poland, Hungary and other East Bloc nations overhaul their economies along market lines.
''For what the East Europeans need for their economic reforms, Cocom is not an obstacle,'' the official said.
Talk of easing Cocom rules will be politically sensitive on Capitol Hill.
Concern has expressed about the effect on national security of technology transfers to the Eastern bloc.
''It doesn't mean we won't turn down cases in the future, but there'll be a major effort to look at things constructively,'' the official said.
Despite perceptions that Cocom seriously hampers East-West trade, the official noted that the Boeing Company had received approval to sell its advanced 767 airliner to Poland and Airbus Industrie, a four-nation European consortium, was delivering equally sophisticated aircraft to East Germany.
 
West German Remarks
As Mr. Eagleburger spoke, the West German Minister of Posts and Telecommunications, Christian Schwarz-Schilling, said at a meeting in Washington that Cocom should review its restrictions.
Allowing the sales of restricted telecommunications equipment could help the economics and stability of the liberalizing Eastern European nations, he said.
''I think a reassessment of what can be exported to Eastern countries is overdue,'' Mr. Schwarz-Schilling said at a luncheon meeting given by the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, a West German research organization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (80%); BAB (BRU) (80%); BA (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (81%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); EASTERN EUROPE (93%); POLAND (92%); GERMANY (90%); HUNGARY (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (81%); BOEING CO (80%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (91%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXPORT CONTROLS, COUNCIL ON MULTILATERAL (COCOM)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST; EUROPE

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); AIRCRAFT MFG (63%); AIRLINES (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); APPROVALS (50%); 

PERSON: EAGLEBURGER, LAWRENCE S (DEPUTY SEC)



16 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Ford Plans to Shut V-8 Engine Plant

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 30

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company told 900 employees at its Windsor, Ontario, engine plant that it will close the factory late next year. The plant was shuttered in 1981 during the auto industry's deep recession but reopened in 1983 when demand for the larger engines grew.
Company officials said the number of Ford cars and pickup trucks using the five-liter V-8 engine produced in Windsor has declined lately, while some five-liter engines have been replaced by a smaller V-6 engine produced at a neighboring plant in Windsor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WINDSOR (ONTARIO)

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); 

PERSON: DAVID FORD (91%); 



17 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Spending Drops Off; Income Up

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30

 BODY:
Consumer spending fell in October to its lowest level in nearly three years, the Commerce Department said today. Analysts said continued sluggishness in personal consumption is likely to be a ''major drag'' on the economy in the fourth quarter.
But personal income rose nine-tenths of 1 percent, which analysts said indicated that consumers still had spending power but were waiting for bargains. 
''It's not going to be a great Christmas in terms of shopping,'' said Sandra Shaber, an economist with the Futures Group, a Washington consulting firm. ''People will just wait until things go on sale.''
 
A 'Weak Note'
The Commerce Department said that spending, reflecting plummeting automobile sales in October, dropped two-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $3.53 trillion, after edging up only three-tenths of 1 percent in September.
It was the first decline in personal spending since a one-tenth of 1 percent drop in September 1988 and the steepest since a 1.4 percent fall in January 1987.
Consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, and the spending report provided fresh evidence that the economy is continuing to slow.
''Consumer spending is starting the fourth quarter on an extremely weak note,'' said David Jones, an economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Company. ''I think it will be a major drag on the economy in the fourth quarter.''
Income totaled $4.51 trillion, reflecting the largest advance since a 1 percent gain last March. It had risen three-tenths of 1 percent in September.
The earthquake in Northern California took $21 billion out of the income figure at an annual rate, but that was partly offset by other one-time ''special factors,'' including a $7.2 billion increase in farm subsidies and $6.8 billion in bonuses to auto industry employees.
''Excluding the impact of the special factors, personal income increased about $33 billion, or 0.7 percent,'' the Commerce Department said.
Mr. Jones and Mrs. Shaber, while expecting a weak fourth quarter, said the report by itself did not indicate an imminent recession.
In October, Americans' after-tax incomes rose nine-tenths of 1 percent, up from September's two-tenths of 1 percent gain, the department said.
The savings rate rose to 5.7 percent, the highest since a 5.8 percent rate last June, compared with September's 4.7 percent. The savings rate is a measure of savings as a percentage of disposable income.
 
Payroll Gains
Wages and salaries, the most significant component of personal income, rose $33 billion, compared with a $17 billion gain in September.
Payrolls at manufacturing companies rose by $6.8 billion, but would have been flat except for the $6.8 billion in auto bonuses.
On the spending side, the $6.1 billion decrease in personal consumption, which includes everything except interest payments on debt, compared with a $9.9 billion gain in September, when incentives drove up auto sales.

GRAPHIC: Graph of total personal income from May '88-Oct. '89 (source: Commerce Dept.); (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); RECESSION (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); BONUS PAY (61%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); 



18 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Notes and Bonds Rise

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds rose in moderately active trading yesterday. Market participants said they were particularly encouraged by a rise in initial unemployment claims for the week ended Nov. 18 and a drop in an index that serves as a proxy for manufacturing activity in the Chicago area, a monthly survey of purchasing managers.
The Chicago results were made available a day before a closely watched monthly survey covering the views of purchasing managers across the country is scheduled to be released.
''Chicago is a pretty diversified area, and nothing in the report is pointing us in a different direction away from the notion that the manufacturing sector is weakening,'' said Dana Johnson, chief money market economist at the First National Bank of Chicago. 
 
No Fed Easing Expected
The data were weaker than anticipated, but Mr. Johnson and other analysts said that in light of recent events they were not of sufficient import to expect that the Fed will ease.
''After the embarrassing events of the past week, it will take something systemic, like a weak employment report, to persuade the Federal Reserve that it should ease policy,'' he said.
Mr. Johnson was referring to a series of steps taken by the Federal Reserve since Nov. 22 that market participants erroneously thought represented a move by the central bank toward an easier credit policy.
Traders sustained fairly substantial losses as a result of the error, and many are still licking their wounds.
But memories on Wall Street tend to be short, and some participants said that interest in longer-term securities, particularly from foreign accounts, was evident yesterday.
 
Greenspan Rumors Ignored
For the most part, traders of fixed-income securities tended to ignore rumors that the Federal Reserve Board chairman, Alan Greenspan, was about to resign. The rumors briefly roiled the foreign exchange markets and pushed the dollar lower in early trading. The rumors were met with a strong denial by a Fed spokesman later in the day.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 102 22/32, up 13/32, to yield 7.88 percent, down from 7.92 percent on Wednesday.
Among Treasury note issues, the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 11/32, up 9/32, to yield 7.82 percent.
Meanwhile, the 7 3/4 percent five-year notes auctioned on Wednesday were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 7.72 percent. And the new 7 3/4 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 2/32, up 1/8 point, to yield 7.71 percent. 3-Month Bill at 7.55% Short-term Treasury bill rates eased somewhat. By late in the day, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.55 percent, down 9 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates dipped by 5 basis points, to yield 7.37 percent. And one-year bill rates fell by 4 basis points, to yield 7.18 percent. In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported yesterday that all three measures of the nation's money supply rose in the week ended Nov. 20.
''There has been a modest pickup in money growth since midyear,'' said Wayne Smith, an economist at Ried Thunberg & Company, an investment advisory firm in Westport, Conn. ''But at this point, I wouldn't say there is anything to get concerned about. Based on our forecasts, M-2 and M-3 will start 1990 at slightly above the midpoints of their tentative target ranges.''
From the fourth quarter of 1989 to the fourth quarter of 1990, M-2, which includes cash in circulation, deposits in checking accounts, nonbank traveler's checks and accounts like savings deposits and money market mutual funds, is scheduled to grow between 3 percent and 7 percent. M-3, which is M-2 plus less liquid accounts like certificates of deposit in minimum denominations of $100,000, is scheduled to grow between 3.5 percent and 7.5 percent.
The money supply report had no impact on prices in the credit markets.
 
Maryland Bank Offering
In the corporate bond market, the Chevy Chase Savings Bank, a Maryland institution, offered $450 million of extendable credit card trust securities in two parts through an underwriting syndicate led by the First Boston Corporation and Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
The securities are backed by credit card receivables and a letter of credit from Credit Suisse.
The first part of the offering, $300 million of 1989-B class securities, have a four-year average life. The 8 3/4 percent securities were priced at 99.578, to yield 8.936 percent, 1.15 percentage points over the prevailing yield on four-year Treasury notes at the time of pricing.
The remaining $150 million of 1989-C class securities have a three-year average life. The 8.60 percent securities were priced at 99.531, to yield 8.808 percent, 1.05 percentage points over the prevailing yield on three-year Treasury notes at the time of pricing.
The securities are rated AAA by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
In the tax-exempt bond market, New York's Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority offered slightly more than $224 million worth of serial and term revenue bonds through Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Serial bonds carry maturities from 1991 to 2005, with yields ranging from 5.90 percent on the securities maturing in 1991 to 7 percent on the issues that mature in 2005.
Included among the several term bonds offered was an issue that matures in 2009. That issue was priced to yield 6.90 percent. The Triborough bonds are rated Aa by Moody's Investors Service and A+ by S.&P.
In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds, dealers said that prices of most issues rose by an eighth to a quarter of a point. Municipal bond dealers said prices in their market moved higher by three-eighths to half a point.

GRAPHIC: Graph of tax-exempt yields from Aug.-Nov. '89 (source: The Bond Buyer) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (56%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY, DEPARTMENT OF THE; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CREDIT MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); AUCTIONS (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (53%); 



19 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Is Mostly Lower; Gold Prices Rise in the U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mostly lower in light trading yesterday amid uncertainty about the nation's economy.
Gold prices rose in United States trading after slipping overseas. In New York, gold rose $2.10 an ounce, to $411.60, on the Commodity Exchange.
The dollar fell in response to a Commerce Department report that personal income rose nine-tenths of a percent in October and to rumors that purchasing executives in Chicago believe the economy is weakening, said Marc Chandler, a currency market analyst with MMS International in Chicago.
These developments ''didn't contradict the idea that the U.S. economy continued to slow down,'' Mr. Chandler said.
When the economy slows, financial markets expect the Federal Reserve to nudge interest rates lower. Declining rates make the dollar less attractive, and the dollar tends to fall when yields decline.
The dollar also slipped as traders who had taken profits against the West German mark in recent days began to rebuild their positions, Mr. Chandler said. The dollar fell to 1.7815 marks in New York, from 1.7875 late Wednesday.
 
Today's New Data Awaited
Volume was light, as many traders awaited two economic reports to be released today: the Government's index of leading indicators and the National Association of Purchasing Management's monthly assessment of the economy.
''Right now, dollar sentiment is so poor, we really need some strong fundamental data in order for it to rally,'' Mr. Chandler said.
Overseas dealers said the dollar fell sharply late in the day on rumors that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, was resigning because of his one-time consulting role with the troubled Lincoln Savings and Loan Association.
A Fed spokesman, Joe Coyne, said the rumors were ''absolutely not true,'' and the denial helped steady the dollar somewhat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); GERMAN MARK (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (57%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (57%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



20 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Why Yalta Isn't a Dirty Word

BYLINE: By Ronald Steel; Ronald Steel, author of ''Walter Lippann and the American Century,'' is professor of international relations at the University of Southern California.

DATELINE: Los Angeles

 BODY:
''Never another Yalta,'' says the common wisdom.
The common wisdom is wrong. Another Yalta is needed, but this time it should be made to work. As George Bush prepares to meet Mikhail Gorbachev, he should ponder what was right about Yalta, and what he can learn from it. 
Today, Yalta - site of the 1945 conference where Roosevelt, Stalin and Churchill tried to shape postwar Europe - is a dirty word. It connotes U.S. naivete, Soviet duplicity and great power deals at the expense of the weak.
Few know what happened, except that it was bad and left Eastern Europe under Communism. The truth is more complicated. Yalta failed because the great powers lost sight of their true interests and bartered away victory in squabbling over spoils.
The Big Three met as the Nazis were on the verge of defeat. The outlines of a new structure had to be worked out if Europe was not to fall into anarchy. The great powers realized they could protect their own interests only by cooperating: This is the situation at Malta today. Two items dominated the agenda: Germany's future and Eastern Europe's political complexion. Sound familiar?
The U.S. and Britain visualized a Continent open to Western influence, but Stalin's hand was strong. The Soviet Union had carried the brunt of the war, suffering terrible casualties and damage. It fought for three years before U.S. and British forces landed, had pushed the Wehrmacht into Germany and was in command of most of Eastern Europe.
Roosevelt's options were limited. He could not force the Red Army out of Eastern Europe, needed Soviet cooperation in the occupation of Germany and wanted the Russians to enter the war against Japan.
Ever the realist, he negotiated a remarkably good compromise. Stalin agreed to fight Japan, to accept the smallest and poorest part of Germany as the Soviet occupation zone and to a vaguely worded formula for free elections in Eastern Europe.
The treaty was applauded across the political spectrum. For John Foster Dulles, later Dwight D. Eisenhower's Secretary of State, it opened a ''new era'' in which the U.S. ''abandoned a form of aloofness that it had been practicing for many years and the Soviet Union permitted joint action on matters it had the power to settle for itself.''
The accords on Germany and Japan were honored. The one on Eastern Europe broke down as Stalin imposed Communist dictatorships on countries under Soviet control. The wartime victors, instead of cooperating, raced to enlist their old enemies in a new conflict: The cold war was on. This was what Roosevelt had tried to avoid by acknowledging Soviet concerns in return for cooperation in building an open Europe.
Today, the Soviets are dismantling their empire, shedding their ideology and eagerly seeking good relations with the West. The former satellites are experimenting with democracy. The Continent is knitting itself back together, and Germany, again Europe's economic powerhouse, is swiftly bridging its partition. Yet, the two great problems of 1945 remain unresolved: What to do about Germany and Eastern Europe? And how to protect the interests of the superpowers?
The creation of a single German state will change the European balance of power and sharply reduce the influence of the U.S. and Soviet Union. Eastern Europe will not necessarily become pacific and democratic. It has long been in a political deep freeze, cut off from modernization and democratization; old ethnic and tribal hatred, feuds over religion and frontiers, are erupting.
The end of the cold war does not mean the triumph of reason and brotherhood in Europe. Americans and Russians have earned a voice in the coming settlement.
For this reason, Malta should represent a return to Yalta - the Yalta where the great powers were driven to compromise and cooperation by a recognition of common interests. Yalta's purpose was to plan for the future. Because that plan failed does not make the need any less important this time around.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UKRAINE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MALTA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE, EAST; EUROPE, WEST; YALTA (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD WAR II (1939-45) EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (76%); COLD WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); 

PERSON: STEEL, RONALD; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



21 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1651 words

HEADLINE: Public Pension Funds Tempt States in Need

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 1

 BODY:
The State Treasurer, Catherine Baker Knoll, sees Pennsylvania as a state with a fragile economy and a public pension fund that is bulging with $25 billion. To help the economy, she wants the fund's managers to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in local real estate, state highways and bridges and new businesses, especially those started by women and members of minorities.
Her proposals, now the subject of public hearings, are part of a rising national debate about the wisdom of investing public pension money to promote social goals.
At a time when most politicians are wary of raising taxes, the lure of the $700 billion stashed away in the pension funds for state and municipal employees and teachers is seductive indeed. And the amount of money, which stood at $210 billion in 1979, is growing rapidly. It parallels a surge in private pension funds that is a result of the bulge in the work force created by the baby boom generation. 
A Ford Foundation study made public last week provided the first comprehensive look at social investment programs by public pension funds. In studying 99 of the nation's largest pension funds with assets totaling $509 billion, it found that 41 had committed $7.2 billion to 78 social investment programs. The report did not spell out what investments had been made and what their rate of return was.
Most of the investments from public pension funds to advance social goals have been a result of political pressure. But now a growing number of officials are seeking laws that would mandate such investments.
At the heart of the debate about such laws is a basic question: Will beneficiaries of these funds be hurt if state and local governments require investments of their money to promote public policy goals?
One opponent of such investments, Richard C. Rowland, executive director of the Pennsylvania Association of School Retirees, said, ''I question the propriety of using the funds for those social purposes and question how it could be done without sacrificing benefits and jeopardizing earnings.''
But others say the investments need not be riskier than other strategies, which are usually to invest in bonds or stocks.
''As long as the investments are sound, you can do good things,'' said Karen Ferguson, an advocate for pensioners and executive director of the Pension Rights Center in Washington.
Supporters of social investments also argue that taxpayers ought to have some control over how public pension money is invested since public workers' retirement systems are supported by tax revenue.
Public pension funds provide retirement income for public workers -from teachers in local districts to bureaucrats in state capitals. They are governed by state laws generally modeled on the Federal law regulating private pension funds.
That law, the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, protects employee pension rights through standards for the conduct of plan trustees and asset managers who are required to invest pension funds prudently and ''solely in the interest'' of plan participants and beneficiaries.
 
Investing in Connecticut
A strong advocate of social investment of public pension money is Francisco L. Borges, Treasurer of Connecticut, a member of the advisory committee that helped devise the Ford Foundation's survey. As the state's sole trustee responsible for investing $8 billion in public pension money for state employees and teachers, he put $94 million into what he called a ''very sound'' downtown Hartford office project, Goodwin Square, that is scheduled for completion next month. The project is 60 percent leased and the projected rate of return is 12 percent, but could be twice that amount if the project does well.
Six months after taking office, in July 1987, he also committed $200 million to new companies, including a $20 million investment in new ones in Connecticut that compost autumn leaves and operate vans providing low-cost mammography examinations for women. Mr. Borges said it was impossible to speculate on what return would be provided by this investment of venture capital, intended to stimulate the growth of jobs.
''I am excited about the opportunity to invest in Connecticut,'' he said.
Others say that investing too heavily in a single state makes a pension fund vulnerable to a regional or local recession.
 
Alaska's Real Estate Collapse
Alaska provides a case in point.
To promote home ownership there, the state's two public pension funds invested $263.1 million, or 36 percent of their total assets of $718.6 million, in residential mortgages by 1980, said Milton B. Barker, who, as the state's Deputy Commissioner of Revenue, supervises the Alaska Public Employees' Retirement System and the Alaska Teachers' Retirement System. ''It was considered a prudent investment at the time,'' he said.
But when oil prices collapsed a few years ago, so did Alaska's real estate market. Mr. Barker said a third of Alaskan real estate loans are now delinquent and 14.6 percent have been foreclosed, a failure that cost the retirement systems millions of dollars.
Despite such cautionary tales, interest in the idea continues, particularly as lawmakers in 33 states debated and passed laws in recent years that prohibited using pension money in South Africa, said Carolyn Mathiasen, director of social issues at the Investor Responsibility Research Center, a nonprofit group that advises pension officials.
The idea of using private and public pension funds for social investments that pay competitive returns was popularized in a 1978 book, ''The North Will Rise Again'' by Randy Barber and Jeremy Rifkin. The book urges workers to demand a say in investment decisions; its title refers to the authors' thesis that union pension funds from Northern states have been invested in nonunion factories and service businesses elsewhere, particularly in the South.
 
Aid for New York City
One of the earliest social investments by public pension funds occurred in New York City during its fiscal crisis in the mid-1970's. Municipal and teacher pension funds invested hundreds of millions of dollars in Municipal Assistance Corporation bonds and saved the city from bankruptcy, said Carol O'Cleireacain, chief economist of the city's largest union, District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
''It was a revolutionary investment and changed forever the way we looked at pension investing,'' she said. The bonds were high-risk investments, but had correspondingly high rates of return, she said.
Mr. Barber, director of the Center for Economic Organizing, which advises unions on financial matters, said, ''The basic idea is to take the capital that has been drawn from an area and reinvest it in that area to promote its future economic well-being.''
In 1988, the Rev. Jesse Jackson picked up the social investment idea in his Presidential campaign, with this added twist: a proposal that the Federal Government insure the safety of money invested by public pension funds in projects intended to benefit the public.
One of the most far-reaching proposals for social pension investments was made in New York in June. A task force appointed by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo recommended that the state's three public pension funds, which have more than $100 billion in assets, should invest more heavily in local projects, including new state roads and prisons.
 
Private Funds Do Better
While figures comparing the rates of return on investments in public and private funds are not available, pension specialists say that private funds have generally outperformed public funds. That is because private funds have tended to invest more heavily in stocks while public funds have favored bonds; over the long haul, stocks have provided much greater returns because greater risk is involved.
The author of the Ford Foundation study, James P. Love, a senior economist with Russel-Zisler, a research subsidiary of the Frank Russell Company, the nation's largest pension fund consultant, said in an interview that pension fund managers were ''frightened and troubled'' by political pressure to make unconventional investments.
 
In General, Satisfaction
''The moment you add a social objective, like creating jobs or encouraging home ownership, it becomes difficult for anyone to know how well the fund is doing,'' Mr. Love said. ''You can put a dollar value on social objectives, but it requires highly subjective judgments.''
The study found that pension managers were unable to measure the social benefits of their investments in terms like creating jobs or building housing and could not yet evaluate the financial performance of more than half of their social investments.
While fund managers are required by law to make periodic reports on their fund's performance, they often cannot give much indication of the performance of some long-term investments like new businesses; in these cases, the funds usually list the amount of their investment or its book value.
Pension officials said in the study that they were satisfied or very satisfied with most of their social investments; the questionnaire did not ask them to explain their reasons in cases in which they were dissatisfied. But Mr. Love noted that the managers also reported that they were planning to expand only seven of their current programs.
In most states, laws would have to be passed to require the managers of public pension money to consider social goals in making investment decisions.
In Pennsylvania, where such a law is being discussed, Mrs. Knoll, the State Treasurer, wants the three public pension funds to shift $400 million in overseas investment back to Pennsylvania and to a half-dozen other states, where state treasurers have agreed to urge their own pension officials to buy real estate in Pennsylvania on a reciprocal basis.

GRAPHIC: Catherine Baker Knoll, the Pennsylvania State Treasurer, who proposed a plan to invest money in the public pension fund in real estate, roads and new businesses (Associated Press); table lists social investments by 41 of the nation's largest public employee's pension funds (Source: Report by the Institute for Fiduciary Education) (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA; ALASKA

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; STATES (US); INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; PENSIONS PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (95%); PENSION FUNDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (89%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY; KNOLL, FRED



22 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: AQUINO'S FORCES SEEM TO PREVAIL IN MANILA BATTLE

BYLINE: By SHEILA CORONEL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANILA, Saturday, Dec. 2

 BODY:
Forces loyal to President Corazon C. Aquino appeared to be turning back an army rebellion today after seizing rebel-held military camps and television stations with the aid of American warplanes.
As Philippine Government warplanes attacked what appeared to be the last remnants of the rebellion near two military camps in Manila, President Aquino said today she would not negotiate with rebel forces.
''We leave them with two choices, to surrender or die,'' Mrs. Aquino said in a statement she read on television 36 hours after rebel troops began their attempt to overthrow the Government.
She vowed to bring to justice the officers and soldiers who took part in the coup attempt as well as civilians who supported it.
Calling them ''treacherous cowards,'' she named 16 officers, including a Navy commander and an air force general, who she said had participated in the mutiny. 
 
Turning Point
After earlier coup attempts, the Government had pardoned some rebel officers, but this time, Mrs. Aquino said, ''The Constitution shall not be perverted to shield those who wish to destroy it.''
The turning point in the rebellion apparently came late Friday when, in a show of force ordered by President Bush at the request of President Aquino, United States F-4 Phantom jets flew air cover, preventing rebel pilots from continuing attacks on Government installations and troops. Rebel troops then withdrew from the television stations they held and from Villamor Air Force Base.
But rebel soldiers marched with armored vehicles through the night toward Camp Aguinaldo, the armed forces headquarters about five miles away. Inexplicably, the rebels were not stopped by Government troops. Other rebels were reportedly holding out near Camp Bonifacio.
According to officials, the rebel forces numbered around 300 today; earlier estimates had placed their number at from 500 to several thousand. About 2,000 Government troops were massed against the rebels in the vicinity of Camp Aguinaldo.
By dawn today, fighting had resumed, with Government troops firing at rebel positions in the densely populated area of Camp Aguinaldo.
In one incident, Philippine warplanes hit pro-Government troops and civilians, killing at least 6 people and wounding 20, military officials said.
Defense Secretary Fidel V. Ramos described the incident as ''one of those things that happens in a situation like this.''
''We thought the planes were friendly, but they fired at us,'' said Brig. Gen. Thelmo Cunanan, commander of the Government force. He said the attack also destroyed nine jeeps and an ammunition truck.
 
Rebels March Toward Camp
The military also said today that it had arrested of one of the coup leaders, Lieut. Col. Tito Legazpi, as he was en route today to Bataan to recruit followers for further attacks against the Government.
The officer is a close associate of Gregorio B. Honasan, the cashiered officer who led the last major military coup attempt in the Philippines, in August 1987, and who the authorities believe is the principal leader of this one. The fugitive Colonel Legazpi had been sought for his role in the 1987 rebellion as well.
In almost two days of fighting, the casualty toll rose to at least 28 people killed and 87 wounded, mostly civilians. The toll was lower than that of the 1987 rebllion, in which 53 people died. But this coup attempt is viewed as the most serious against President Aquino because the scope of the two days of fighting, which included the bombing of the presidential palace and other Government installations, represented a marked heightening in the level of violence.
 
U.S. Provide Air Cover
Late Friday, the United States ordered two F-4 Phantom jets from Clark Air Base, 50 miles north of Manila, to fly to the capital district to provide air cover for Government forces trying to dislodge rebel soldiers holding out at Villamor and at Sangley naval base in Cavite province, south of Manila. The American planes did not fire on the rebels.
The United States intervention apparently came as a shock to the rebels and caused significant disruption in their operations, according to sympathizers in Manila familiar with the rebel camp's operation.
Mrs. Aquino, in a statement from the presidential palace on Friday night, said she had requested the American support because loyal troops lacked the ability to contain the rebels. ''The enemy is routed,'' she said, ''but is not yet vanquished.''
Defense Secretary Ramos said American military support, requested by President Aquino at the behest of her military commanders, ''spelled the inevitable defeat of the rebels.''
Mr. Ramos described the American offer of help as a ''blank check.'' In addition to the F-4 Phantom jets, the United States flew in about 120 marines to strengthen security at the American Embassy compound overlooking Manila Bay. Although there were reports that the United States had offered to send in troops from its bases in Okinawa and Hawaii, it was not clear whether in fact Washington was prepared to commit ground forces to suppress the revolt.
A spokesman for the rebels said, however, that the decision by the United States to send in warplanes was an affront to Philippine sovereignty and that the rebels would hold the United States Ambassador, Nicholas Platt, personally responsible for the intervention.
The United States presence here is a contentious issue, with many Filipinos demanding the removal of American bases, so the American intervention appeared certain to cause further political problems for Mrs. Aquino.
 
Dissatisfaction Widespread
The attempted coup, which began late Thursday night, came at a time of public dissatisfaction over increasing economic hardships, a breakdown of public services and allegations of increasing corruption in the Government and among some of Mrs. Aquino's family and friends. Mrs. Aquino's popularity, which had shielded her from criticism, has slipped badly lately, and even some of her former supporters in the press and public service have turned against her.
''The rebels were taking advantage of legitimate grievances that people identified with,'' said Carolina Hernandez, a political scientist who has studied the Philippine military. ''But they misread the popular pulse. The dissatisfaction was not so much with democracy as it was the slow process of democratization.''
Military officers said Mr. Honasan, 42 years old, a charismatic former colonel who played a major role in the military-led uprising that installed Mrs. Aquino as President after the ouster of Ferdinand E. Marcos, is the leader of the coup attempt.
They said that Mr. Honasan, who was stripped of his rank and thrown out of the armed forces after the 1987 coup attempt, wanted to establish a junta but that the nature and composition of such a junta remained unclear.
Rebel sympathizers and associates said Mr. Honasan was one of the major figures in the revolt but not necessarily its leader. They also said a civilian-military junta figured in the rebel plans, with elections for president planned for a year after the junta's takeover.
Still, neither Mr. Honasan nor any other rebel figure came forward to issue a statement.
At the height of the revolt, the rebels seized two military camps, the Government broadcasting compound, the domestic airport and the Ninoy Aquino International Airport, which was closed to all flights. But by late Friday, with the introduction of American warplanes, the rebel troops abandoned the Government broadcasting station, the Villamor base and other strongholds.

GRAPHIC: After the Aquino Government appeared to have survived another coup attempt, fighting resumed around Camp Aguinaldo. Yesterday, Philippine soldiers, near the Presidential Palace, returned sniper fire (Associated Press) (pg. 1); smoke rising from Camp Graves, a Philippine military base, after it was bombed in the coup attempt (Reuters) (pg. 6); map of Philippines higlighting Manila and showing location of Camp Aguinaldo (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (94%); COUPS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (92%); ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ARMIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); PARDONS (53%); 

PERSON: AQUINO, CORAZON C (PRES); CORONEL, SHEILA; LEGAZPI, TITO (LT COL) GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



23 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-11
 
The Vatican and the Soviet Union will move toward full diplomatic ties under an agreement reached by the Soviet President, Mikhail Gorbachev, and Pope John Paul II. The two met for about an hour at the Vatican. Page 1
 
Catholics and Communists: A long but not steady enmity 10
 
Ukrainian Catholic Church wins legal status after 43-year ban 10
 
Philippine government warplanes mistakenly bombed pro-Government troops and civilians, killing at least six people. Troops loyal to President Corazon Aquino had appeared earlier to have turned back the rebellion with the aid of American warplanes. 1
 
The decision to use American planes against Philippine rebel forces was made by President Bush after he was told that President Aquino might be overthrown, officials said. 1
 
Philippine coup plot is linked to earlier plots 6
 
Presidents Bush and Gorbachev arrived in Malta on the eve of a summit conference. Their meeting has no formal agenda, but comes at a historic moment when nearly all aspects of relations are open for discussion. 1 
 
Images of the Soviet Union in American advertisments have long followed the course of diplomatic ties between the countries. Now, the message is simple: The Russians are just like us. 33
 
The Soviet-led invasion of Prague that crushed the reform movement of 1968 was ''wrong,'' the new Politburo of the Czechoslovak Communist Party declared. 1
 
Czech witnesses stray and an inquiry falters 8
 
Hopes rise in a Czechsolovak community in New Jersey 31
 
The Communist Party's leading role in East German politics was abolished when Parliament amended the country's Constitution. 9
 
Killing of West German bank chief seen as well-planned 11
 
India has a new Prime Minister, V. P. Singh, who won the unanimous backing of the political opposition. He will head only the second government in 42 years of Indian independence not under the control of the Congress Party. 5
 
Lebanon's Maronite Catholic leaders are trying to defuse tensions between the new Syrian-backed Lebanese President, Elias Hrawi, and the defiant Christian commander of the armed forces, Gen. Michel Aoun. 3
 
The U.S. is urging a peaceful solution to the political standoff in Lebanon by trying to persuade Lebanon's newly elected President to allow Gen. Aoun an ''honorable exit'' without using force. 3
 
Leftist guerrillas in El Salvador have begun using Soviet-made anti-aircraft missiles against Government helicopters for the first time in the 10-year civil war, President Cristiani said. 7
 
National 12-13, 28
 
A Pennsylvania public pension fund could help the state's fragile economy through investments in local real estate, state highways and bridges and new businesses, the State Treasurer says. 1
 
The main forecasting index for the economy fell four-tenths of 1 percent in October. It was the fifth decline this year and another sign of a slackening economy. 33
 
Refusal to disclose classified data needed in criminal cases could create a category of high-level intelligence agents immune from prosecution, the Iran-contra prosecutor says. 12
 
''A Day Without Art'' was observed across the United States by about 600 museums, galleries and other art institutions to call attention to the AIDS crisis. 12
 
A much-picketed abortion clinic in Pennsylvania has invited anti-abortion leaders to talk with patients in counseling sessions inside the building rather than scream slogans at them outside. 13
 
Plutonium that collected in ducts at the Rocky Flats nuclear weapons plant was enough of a concern to close the plant indefinitely, the Secretary of Energy said. 12
 
Company safety scrutinized in crane collapse 28
 
Stiff fines sought for having small amounts of drugs 13
 
Chicago housing agency plans midnight basketball league 13
 
Regional 29-32
 
A teen-ager was shot and killed while trying to protect his younger brother from three bullies at a school bus stop in South Jamaica, Queens. 29
 
Two school officials were indicted on charges of illegally using their positions on the board of Community School District 27 in Queens to give friends and relatives school jobs. One pleaded guilty, officials said. 29
 
Queens man indicted yesterday has been in limelight before 31
 
New York's new Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez, visited a New York City school for the first time and met with students, district administrators, civic leaders and members of the State Assembly. 31
 
The worst urban traffic congestion that commuters across the country face is not always during weekday rush hours but on Saturdays, the day for errands and shopping. 29
 
A $1 rise in bridge and tunnel tolls and a 25-cent fare increase on PATH trains was recommended by the chief of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 29
 
New token fare of $1.15 asked in transit plan 30
 
Workers strike bus company serving 13,000 in the Bronx 31
 
Brooklyn drug dealer gets seven consecutive life terms 30
 
Man guilty in officer's slaying 30
 
Neediest Cases 32

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: HOLY SEE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (94%); LEBANON (94%); UKRAINE (92%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RELIGION (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); COUPS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); PENSION FUNDS (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); HELICOPTERS (60%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



24 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: The Editorial Notebook;
The Soldiers in Europe's House

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

 BODY:
By encouraging independence in Eastern Europe and withholding Soviet support for Tiananmen-style crackdowns, Mikhail Gorbachev gives preliminary shape to the political and economic arrangements he has in mind for a ''common European home.'' His ideas for the military arrangements -which he might discuss this weekend with President Bush - can only be guessed at, but there are some clear principles to keep in mind.
One is that the West German Army, if it should ever be combined with the East German Army, would add up to a number no one else will welcome. 
Another is that even after major reductions and withdrawal from Europe, Soviet forces would still threaten to overshadow other European armies. The Soviet Union, however friendly a neighbor, would thus be unlikely to be invited inside the European home.
A third principle is that some Soviet troops will probably have to stay in Germany, and be counterbalanced, in turn, by continuing American forces in Europe.
If Comecon, the Eastern bloc's economic group, seeks to join in the march toward European integration, NATO and the Warsaw Pact would also draw closer. Since each is the other's chief reason for existence, lessened tensions would lead to sharp mutual reductions. Bloc countries with large Soviet garrisons might well wish to be free of them; Hungarian delegates to the conventional forces talks at Vienna have already indicated as much.
But with Soviet garrisons withdrawn, East and West Germany together would possess the largest army in Europe. As the price for being allowed some form of political union, the two Germanys might be willing to accept some degree of continued occupation. A reduced Soviet garrison in East Germany would give the Soviet Union its guarantee against German revanchism. In symmetry, an American force would remain in West Germany giving other West Europeans their guarantee.
Such an equilibrium would provide the stability under which East and West could gradually disarm. Another military consideration will then loom large. For many years, the Soviet Union will need large forces to maintain order among its turbulent nationalities. Without restraint from Moscow, the band of southern republics from Georgia to Uzbekistan could dissolve into ethnic strife and chaos. However legitimate Moscow's need for a large army, European nations will not invite such a colossus into their common home.
So what does Mr. Gorbachev mean by the phrase? Some Soviet intellectuals interpret it literally, as the return to a single European civilization. ''The common European home means decomposition of the empire, in our own interest,'' says Andranik Migranyan, an analyst at a Moscow think tank.
There is no evidence that Mr. Gorbachev himself intends to go that far. But he is a radical reformist, even if not a revolutionary. It could be he foresees a day when the Soviet Union becomes a looser federation of republics, nationalist tensions are thereby relieved and far fewer troops are required to maintain order. Such a transformation would surely improve his chances of stepping from neighbor to resident of the European house.
To modernize his economy, Mr. Gorbachev needs credits and technology. His European home may still be just a castle in the air. But it is easy to share his general notion: The more walls he tears down within his domain, the more he can hope to share in the West's prosperity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); HUNGARY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GEORGIA (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN HOME RETAIL PLC (92%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; EDITORIALS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; WADE, NICHOLAS MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (74%); GEORGE WALKER BUSH (58%); 



25 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Port Authority Proposes $1 Increase in Tolls

BYLINE: By DAVID E. PITT

 BODY:
The chief of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said yesterday that he was recommending a $1 toll increase on all six of its bridges and tunnels and a 25-cent fare rise on PATH, the underground commuter rail system.
The surprise announcement by Stephen Berger, the Port Authority's executive director, came despite earlier assurances that the last toll and fare increase, in 1987, had been large enough to avoid any new ones until well into 1991.
The increases would go into effect on the crossings in April and on PATH in December 1990, Mr. Berger said. They would be used to close a Port Authority deficit that he said was likely to grow to $94 million, from the present $57 million, by the end of next year. 
The proposal came a day after the Taxi and Limousine Commission approved an 11.5 percent increase in yellow cab fares and as the Metropolitan Transportation Authority weighed its own planned fare-increase of at least 15 percent for buses, subways and commuter rail lines.
In July, the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, an M.T.A. agency, imposed a 25 percent toll increase for its six major bridges and two tunnels.
Under Mr. Berger's proposal, roundtrip tolls would rise on April 1 to $4 a car from $3 on the George Washington, Bayonne and Goethals Bridges, the Outerbridge Crossing and the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels.
The cost of a discounted package good for 20 roundtrip crossings would rise to $60 from $40.
Truck drivers, who now pay $3 an axle to use the crossings, would have to pay $4 an axle.
The new PATH fare, which would go into effect on Dec. 16, 1990, would rise to $1.25 from $1, while discounts would be offered for the elderly and those buying multitrip tickets. It would coincide with the installation of automated fare machines on the 80-year-old rail line.
Mr. Berger, calling his proposal ''a difficult decision,'' attributed much of the Port Authority's deficit to lower-than-expected revenues on the six crossings and PATH. He said the deficit was a direct consequence of the slowdown in the region's economy.
''In 1986,'' he told the Port Authority board in a letter dated Thursday, ''we projected total network revenues for 1989 at $503 million; today we expect this year's revenues to total $462 million.''
The economic downturn has been so far-reaching, he said, that it has even caused a $49 million drop in projected 1989 revenues at the World Trade Center and Kennedy International, La Guardia and Newark International Airports. Their income has been historically used to subsidize PATH and the bridge and tunnel crossings.
He also cited rising operating and maintenance expenses, especially on the heavily subsidized PATH system and the midtown Manhattan bus terminal, and a $1.3 billion capital spending program for 1990 that he said was vital to the agency's solvency.
Also, Mr. Berger said, over the last four years the Port Authority had absorbed ''over $100 million in additional expenses that we did not contemplate.''
 
No Government Subsidies
He said these included $15 million in programs to deal with the homeless; $50 million to remove cancer-causing asbestos from Port Authority properties, and substantial sums to pay for items like increased health costs, expenses associated with labor strikes and the replacement of defective rivets on bridges.
Mr. Berger noted that while PATH's 1989 operating deficit has already reached $106 million, it is ''virtually alone among urban rail transport systems in this country'' in not receiving Federal, state or local government subsidies.
''I think this will help cover us, but how long I cannot guarantee,'' Mr. Berger told a news conference at Port Authority headquarters at No. 1 World Trade Center in Manhattan.
The 12-member Port Authority board is to discuss and probably vote on the proposal Dec. 14. Public hearings would be scheduled later.
 
Governors Could Veto
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York and Gov. Thomas H. Kean of New Jersey, each of whom have veto power in such matters, would have 10 business days after any board decision to respond. If the board does not render a decision until after Mr. Kean leaves office, the matter would fall to his successor, Governor-elect James J. Florio.
If approved, the toll increase would be only the Port Authority's fourth since 1927; the fare increase would be PATH's fourth since 1967.
The proposal was disclosed during Mr. Berger's presentation of the agency's 1990 budget, which calls for the spending of $2.9 billion. Of that, $1.3 billion would be for capital projects. Mr. Berger said the figure is the highest one-year total for capital spending in the Port Authority's 68-year history.
Among the more than 100 capital programs in the budget, Mr. Berger said, are major rehabilitation of bridges, tunnels and the PATH system; new construction at Kennedy International, La Guardia and Newark International Airports; work on a new Hoboken-to-Manhattan ferry; waterfront development in Hoboken, N.J., and in Hunters Point, Queens, and port improvements in Brooklyn, Staten Island and Port Newark/Elizabeth.

GRAPHIC: In a surprise announcement, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said yesterday it would recommend a $1 toll hike at all six of its bridge and tunnel crossings, including the Lincoln Tunnel. (NYT/Linda M. Baron); chart of new proposd toll structure for bridges, tunnels and PATH trains (Source: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey) (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ; PORT AUTHORITY TRANS-HUDSON CORP (PATH)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; TOLLS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FARES PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (68%); CITIES (68%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (67%); AIRPORTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); AIR FARES (56%); 

PERSON: PITT, DAVID E; BERGER, STEPHEN



26 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: The New Rush Hours: All Day Saturday

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARAMUS, N.J.

 BODY:
More and more, drivers encounter the worst traffic congestion not during commuters' rush hours but on Saturdays, the day for errands and shopping.
In New Jersey, where roads are among the most heavily traveled in the nation and malls and shopping strips abound, traffic congestion on Saturdays is expected to exceed that of the evening rush in the next few years.
''What we're going to begin seeing is Saturday shopping traffic equaling or surpassing rush-hour traffic,'' said New Jersey's assistant transportation commissioner, James Crawford. ''It is not a universal case now. It is something we do see in certain periods of the year in certain key places.'' 
Traffic officials and urban planners say Saturday congestion is worsening from increases in two-income families whose schedules leave little time but Saturday to shop and do errands; in shopping malls, with more being clustered together, and in the number of cars.
''This is not just a New Jersey or regional phenomenon,'' said James W. Hughes, a professor of urban planning at Rutgers University. ''It's a national phenomenon.''
In Texas and New York State, for example, some traffic experts have noted the trend, although others - in Connecticut and in counties with major shopping centers like Westchester and Nassau in New York, Fairfax in Virginia and Orange in California -say the evening rush hour continues to be the peak period. They say Saturday is the major shopping day.
Experts point out, however, that studies have tended to focus on the traditional weekday rush hour traffic, which usually peaks in the evening when commuters share roads with shoppers. Comparisons with Saturday traffic, which is usually heavy from late morning to early evening, have been rare, they said. As a result, said Thomas W. Casey, director of the division of transit planning and management for the Bergen County Department of Planning and Economic Development, the growth of Saturday congestion is something that has yet to be studied.
Paramus, with its five major shopping malls within a five-mile radius, ''is the classic one at Christmas time,'' he added.
On the Saturday after Thanksgiving, as shoppers searched 15 minutes or more for a parking place at the packed 1.6 million-square-foot Garden State Plaza here, one shopper, Fred Lorestani of Teaneck, said he was well acquainted with Saturday congestion.
 
Rise Across State
Some Saturdays, he said, it took him twice the time to travel a section of Route 4 on a shopping outing than it did in the morning going to work.
George Kuziw, manager of transportation data development for the New Jersey Department of Transportation, said comparative counts show that Saturday traffic in certain periods now exceeds weekday rush-hour traffic in some parts of the state and approaches it in others.
On Route 9 near Route 1 in the Woodbridge Center area, for example, there were 200 more cars in the northbound lanes during a peak hour on Saturday: 2,406 between 3 and 4 P.M., compared with 2,206 between a peak weekday hour of 3 to 4 P.M., Mr. Kuziw said.
Route 202/31 northbound, the main artery to a cluster of name-brand discount outlets in Flemington, had 251 more cars: 1,243 between 3 and 4 P.M. on a Saturday compared with 992 between 4 and 5 P.M. on a weekday.
 
Traffic in Houston
Route 3 east in Clifton, several miles from the discount outlets in Secaucus, had Saturday traffic almost equal to that of the evening rush hour, 4,377 between 5 and 6 P.M. on weekdays and 4,319 between 6 and 7 P.M. on Saturday.
Stephen Ha, a signal engineer for the Houston Department of Traffic and Transportation, said he believed Saturday congestion was almost equal to rush hour congestion near the Galleria, a 3.3-million-square-foot mall. The main road to the mall, Westheimer, carries up to 80,000 cars on peak weekday periods, he said, but Saturday traffic approaches that.
David Simchi-Levi, an assistant professor of industrial engineering at Columbia University, and his wife, Edith, a program analyst, and their two young daughters, drove from Manhattan on a recent Saturday to Garden State Plaza here.
The Simchi-Levis said they and their Manhattan friends regularly shop at the Plaza, which was built in 1957 as the first mall in the state, as well as at other Paramus malls. ''If the weather is nice, we go on a trip and then may go shopping,'' said Mrs. Simchi-Levi, ''but if it's not pleasant, we just go shopping.''
 
Women in Labor Force
Robert A. Weant, vice president of technical services at the Eno Foundation of Transportation Inc. in Westport, Conn., said the great infusion of women into the job market changed commuting and shopping patterns.
The foundation's 1987 report, ''Commuting in America,'' noted that since 1950, 30 million of 50 million entrants into the labor force have been women; in 1950, women accounted for 28 percent of the labor force, but they now exceed 44 percent.
Ira S. Lowry, a housing and development consultant from Pacific Palisades, Calif., wrote in a 1988 report to the Transportation Research Board that daily trips for family and personal errands and for social or recreational trips exceeded daily work trips.
The International Council of Shopping Centers said there are 32,563 shopping centers nationally, including 1,269 in New York, 736 in New Jersey and 566 in Connecticut.
 
Traffic Spreads Out
''You're now seeing malls across the street from malls,'' said Commissioner Crawford. ''Each of those has to draw a certain volume of traffic to be successful, and that traffic is all auto.''
But Lieut. Eric Kremer, head of the traffic unit of the Paramus police, said traffic congestion in the early 1970's was worse when there were fewer malls in town. With more malls here and in the area, traffic is more spread out.
The population of 30,000 in this 10.5-mile-square borough expands to 200,000 on weekdays and 300,000 on Saturdays. On Sundays, however, the Paramus malls are closed by municipal ordinance. Some store owners complain that the Sunday closing law aggravates the Saturday congestion.
Mr. Weant said congestion was also caused by an increase in cars and drivers: The number of drivers grew from 43 million in 1960 to 83 million in 1980; two-vehicle households grew by 172 percent, and three-vehicle households by almost 1,000 percent.
In New Jersey, car registrations increased 40 percent between 1980 and 1986, Commissioner Crawford said.
If Saturday congestion continues to get worse, as he predicts, ''It probably means we will begin seeing more pressures for either extended hours for shopping. Or we're going to see people putting up with levels of congestion on the weekend that they now put up with as they travel to their jobs.''

GRAPHIC: Traffic congestion on Saturdays sometimes exceeds that of evening rush hours in New Jersey where shopping areas abound. Fred Lorestani fed his 2-year-old son, Alexander, last Saturday on a bench in the Garden State Plaza shopping mall in Paramus because the restaurant, rear, was full. (NYT/Fred R. Conrad) (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); RETAIL STORES AND TRADE VEHICLE TRAFFIC (91%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); COUNTIES (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); TRENDS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); CHRISTMAS (69%); FAMILY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); THANKSGIVING (64%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE



27 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: A $1.15 Token Now Supported By Transit Staff

BYLINE: By DAVID E. PITT

 BODY:
The staff of the New York City Transit Authority has revised a plan on subway and bus fares and is now proposing that the agency raise the price of a token to $1.15 from $1, but without offering discounts on bulk sales, a spokesman said last night.
The new plan, an alternative to the Transit Authority's original proposal of a $1.25 single fare - or 18 tokens for $20 - also calls for raising the fare for the elderly by a nickel, to 55 cents.
Before it is formally adopted, the new plan must be reviewed by the Transit Authority board on Thursday and the finance committee of the authority's parent agency, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, on Dec. 11. It will then be forwarded to the full M.T.A. board, which has scheduled a vote on the fare question for Dec. 15. 
''But that is definitely the direction we are moving toward,'' said the M.T.A.'s chief spokesman, John Cunningham.
 
Original Plan Sharply Criticized
The spokesman said the new plan was worked out among M.T.A. and Transit Authority officials this week after politicians and the public had sharply criticized the original proposal.
The revised plan would also raise the price of one-way fares on express buses, currently $3.50, to $4.60, a 31.4 percent increase. The Transit Authority had originally proposed a 43 percent increase, to $5, which stirred outcries, especially from Staten Island riders.
Under the new plan, express bus riders could buy tickets in bulk for $3.75, by purchasing either a monthly pass for $150 or a two-week pass for $75.
The M.T.A. spokesman said the decision to eliminate discount subway and bus fares was the result of calculations by Transit Authority economists, who found that the agency would lose money if it offered discounts on tokens priced lower than $1.25.
 
Discounts Called Money Losers
Some advocates of lower fares had proposed a $1.15 fare and 9 tokens for $10. But the Transit Authority concluded it would lose $24 million in potential revenue.
Another suggestion - a $1.15 fare and 10 tokens for $11 - would cost the agency ''closer to $30 million to $50 million,'' Mr. Cunningham said.
While the Transit Authority acknowledged that a new fare of $1.15 had been agreed upon in 1987, after the Governor and the Legislature approved a five-year, $8.5 billion financing plan, they said a $1.25 plan was preferable because it involved only one additional coin. The two coins required in a $1.15 fare, authority officials insist, will create long lines at token booths and create more jammed fare boxes on buses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; BUSES; FARES; AGED URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); AGING (70%); 

PERSON: PITT, DAVID E JOHN ANDERSON CUNNINGHAM (55%); 



28 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Anniversary Tribute to Neediest Cases Fund

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
In December 1939, Alfred I. Jaffe paid $2 for a license to marry Mimi Muschat. ''Several years ago, I decided to make my annual contribution a tribute to my wife on our anniversary,'' Mr. Jaffe, who now lives in Somers, N.Y., wrote to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. ''I donated $2 for every year we were married, the $2 representing the original cost of our license.'' 
Today a marriage license in Philadelphia, where the Jaffes were married on Christmas Eve half a century ago, costs $13, and Mr. Jaffe's gift has kept pace with inflation.
''We've been fortunate in having good health for a couple of septuagenarians,'' Mr. Jaffe said, ''and we're thankful that millions of people in central Europe are beginning to breathe a bit of the air of freedom that we take for granted. Accordingly I'm happy to donate $500 this year in honor of Mimi Jaffe to help relieve poverty here at home.''
Family considerations were paramount to many who contributed to the 78th annual campaign during its first week. Three brothers, Roger Strong Jr. of Manhattan, Jeffrey Strong of Brooklyn and Thomas Strong of Columbia, S.C., sent $250. Roger Strong called it ''a significant gift to honor our grandmother's 85th birthday.''
''She has cared about us for a long, long time,'' Mr. Strong wrote. Their grandmother, whose birthday is Monday, is Marguerite G. Strong of Manhattan.
Reversing intergenerational honors, Martin and Mildred Weissburg of Southbury, Conn., who donated $50, wrote: ''This contribution is in honor of our granddaughter's 25th birthday! Pamela Altman born Dec. 17, 1964! Given with love.'' Few letters conveyed the spirit of the campaign quite as eloquently as the one from Eli Fogel of Long Island City, Queens, who wrote: ''I would like to commend The New York Times for giving me the opportunity to show my concern and care for people less fortunate than me. It makes one feel good to be able to share in helping people who are down and really need help from all of us.''
 
Previously recorded ......... $1,320.686.21
 
Recorded yesterday ......... 4,454.00
 
 ------
 
Total ......... $1,325,140.21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND ANNIVERSARIES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE



29 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1989

 BODY:

 
 
Markets
 Directors of the Securities Industry Association voted to drop the group's decade-long opposition to allowing banks to enter the securities business - a move that could lead to significant changes on Wall Street. The S.I.A. has spent millions of dollars to fight any attempt to weaken the Glass-Steagall Act, which was intended to keep commercial banks out of the securities business. [Page 33.] Stocks made their biggest gain in weeks, as institutions and foreigners bought heavily. The Dow Jones industrials soared 41.38 points, or 1.53 percent, to 2,747.65, the 10th-highest close ever. For the week, the average climbed 72.10 points, or 2.69 percent. [33.] Prices of Treasury securities rose only modestly in light trading. Dealers said that declines in the index of leading economic indicators and in the purchasing managers' monthly report had been expected and that the market was continuing to wait for further signals from the Fed on interest rates. [36.] The dollar made some gains against other currencies, as traders appeared to buy dollars as a hedge against any announcements from the Soviet-American summit meeting that could affect the market. Gold rose $2 an ounce on the Comex, to $413.60. [42.] Prices of energy futures rose sharply. Heating oil jumped more than 5 percent in the last three trading days of the week. [42.] 
 
 
 
The Economy
 The index of leading indicators fell 0.4 percent in October, in another sign that the economy is slackening. Although it was the fifth decline this year, many analysts say they see no end to a seven-year expansion. [33.] The economy continued to deteriorate in November for the seventh consecutive month, the National Association of Purchasing Management said. The purchasing managers said the index was affected by drops in production, new orders and employment. [34.] Construction spending rose a modest 1 percent in October, bolstered by the first gain in single-family home building in nine months. Analysts said the improvement suggested lower interest rates were helping to end a slump in construction. [34.] The assets of savings and loan institutions continued to shrink significantly in September in preparation for tough financial standards that take effect next week. Assets at the nation's 2,903 savings institutions fell by $15.2 billion, breaking the record set in August of $13.3 billion, the Office of Thrift Supervision said. [33.] Pennsylvania's State Treasurer wants to invest public pension money in state projects, amid a rising debate about the wisdom of investing pension funds to promote social goals. [1.]
 
 
 
Companies
 Fidelity Investments is raising the minimum investment in its mutual funds to $2,500, from $1,000, to reduce its record-keeping expenses. The firm will also raise the minimum that current investors must maintain in these accounts to $1,000, from $500. [37.] A host of unexpected start-up problems have delayed the date by which Nucor is scheduled to reach capacity production at its advanced Indiana steel mill. [33.] Lear Jet is scouting for potential buyers again, since Chrysler decided not to acquire the manufacturer of business jets. Others said to be interested in Lear Jet are British Aerospace and Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. [35.] Pacificorp offered to buy all of Pinnacle West, which had rebuffed its offer to buy one utility. [35.]
 
International
 The killing of the head of Deutsche Bank was planned weeks in advance and carried out with precision, German police said. [11.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 A computer scientist has patented his ''baby,'' a robot called Infant that he says is modeled on the way a human baby learns motor skills and that could improve the automation of everything from stacking crates to picking pineapples. Patents. [34.] Many people could benefit from orderly withdrawals from I.R.A.'s and other retirement plans. Your Money. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%); FMR CORP (52%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (90%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); METALS MARKETS (79%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (79%); NEW ORDERS (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); GOLD MARKETS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); FUTURES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); HEATING OIL (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (66%); 



30 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Innovative Steel Mill Is Off to a Slow Start

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
These should have been heady days for F. Kenneth Iverson, chairman of the Nucor Corporation and a man celebrated for teaching Big Steel a thing or two about operating mills more efficiently.
Three months ago in Indiana, Nucor opened the first mill to apply the most significant technological development in the industry in 20 years - the low-cost production of very thin sheets of flat-rolled steel that can ultimately be used in the hotly competitive automobile and appliance industry. By now the plant, the latest of the mini-mills pioneered by Nucor, was to have been well on its way to threatening the nation's large steel producers.
Instead, Mr. Iverson is wrestling with a host of unexpected start-up problems that have pushed back for at least two quarters, until the end of next year, the date when the mill is scheduled to reach capacity production. Mechanical and technical difficulties have sent planners back to the drawing board more than once to revise the process. Meanwhile, losses at the plant have mounted, to about $1 million each week, and the figure of $30 million in projected start-up costs for the mill this year has already climbed to nearly $48 million. And the company's stock, which traded in the mid- to upper 60's in September, has retreated. The stock rose $1.25 yesterday in trading on the New York Stock Exchange, to $60.50. 
There are more than a few doubters. ''This thing has never been done,'' said the chairman of a major steel company who asked not to be named. ''It's not clear if the process will be able to produce the quality that customers will want or if it can operate with consistency.''
Many in the industry point to the plant's initial problems as evidence that the mill will not have much effect on the steel industry anytime soon. Moreover, bigger steel producers say that their costs have plunged over the last five years to a point at which they will remain competitive in quality and cost. ''At first it seemed like Nucor would have a real cost advantage over us,'' the steel company chairman said. ''But if that happens at all, it will still be some time from now.''
But most in the steel industry still expect the Nucor plant to succeed ultimately, although they say it will be several years before any products made in the Crawfordsville, Ind., mill will be competitive. ''To make their product fully competitive in the marketplace will surely take 5 to 10 years,'' said Roger P. Penny, senior vice president of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, the nation's third-largest steel producer. ''There will be a longer learning curve than they expected.''
From the outset the new Nucor plant, built in a rural stretch about 35 miles northwest of Indianapolis, has been a bold gamble for a company noted for going against the grain of established operating practices of American steel companies. While the large steel mills were expanding in the 1970's, Mr. Iverson churned out strong profits through small mills that make steel from scrap metal, using nonunion employees who work under rules considered extremely flexible by American steel industry standards.
''Did things turn out to be more difficult than we expected?'' Mr. Iverson asked in a recent interview on the Indiana mill. ''Well, I think one's expectations of a situation are always higher than what occurs.''
 
Assault on Big Steel
 Nucor, based in Charlotte, N.C., is already the nation's largest mini-mill, a category that describes the second-tier steel companies known for making low-grade products for the construction industry. The plant in Indiana represents an assault on the mainstay of the big steel producers, the flat-rolled steel business, a $13 billion market that amounts to nearly two-thirds of Big Steel's revenues.
The thin-slab technology has been the talk of the industry ever since Nucor announced three years ago that it would be the first to produce steel under that method. It is still the only American company to use the method; other companies have waited to see how Nucor fares.
Developed by SMS Schlomann of West Germany, the process is designed to use less expensive scrap steel, as opposed to the ingots used by other steelmakers, to form molten steel into slabs much thinner than conventional casters produce. The slabs will be two inches thick, compared with the 10 inches from casters operated by large, integrated mills.
 
Much Thinner Slabs
 The slabs are flattened into steel sheets one-tenth of an inch thick. Because Nucor's slabs are so much thinner than other companies', the flattening of the sheets to their final thickness requires much less energy, manpower and wasted material. Nucor says five workers will be able to do what it takes more than 30 to do at most steel companies.
But skeptics question whether the final product from the Nucor process will be as durable as products from the existing process, and whether the process is reliable enough to avoid costly interruptions. Mr. Iverson expected to have answered the naysayers by now by having more of the thin-slab caster's products in the hands of steel customers. But the Crawfordsville plant produced just 6,000 tons of steel in September and October, about half of what Mr. Iverson expected. He hopes to produce 12,000 tons of sheet steel in December, still less than half the mill's break-even rate.
An important reason for the disappointing output is a number of mechanical and electrical problems at a plant that must operate with 96 percent reliability to be effective. An initial difficulty was controling the temperature of the molten steel, a problem that was ultimately solved by injecting argon through the heating ladle. There have also been problems with the nozzle that guides the molten steel into the mold having to be changed after every 250 tons of production, half the expected life span.
 
Devastating Problems
 Ordinarily, such problems would not be particularly devastating. But the Nucor caster operates as a single unit, unlike the series of stations in a typical large steel mill. As a result, the entire production line must shut down if any one function fails.
Nonetheless, Mr. Iverson remains confident that the difficulties are temporary and that the casting technology will be perfected by the end of next year. He said none of the mill's problems have ''indicated that the concept is at all unrealistic.''
''Actually, it hasn't been more difficult than what you'd expect with a new process of this type,'' Mr. Iverson said. ''Most of what we've gone through is nothing more than the normal array of start-up problems. But the difference is that our situation is exacerbated by the fact that this is a completely new process.''
 
In the Long Run
 Many in the industry agree. ''They are having a number of problems but it's going to work out in the long run,'' said John Jacobson, an economist with AUS Consultants in Philadelphia.
Since pulling the company from near bankruptcy 23 years ago, Mr. Iverson has carved a profitable niche in the steel market. Last year Nucor reported net income of $70.9 million on sales of $1.06 billion, although it reported a 19 percent decline in earnings for the first nine months of this year because of the new operations.
Mr. Iverson, who is now 63 years old, is passionate about keeping operating expenses low. He works out of a small office in a Charlotte shopping center, with fewer than 24 people on the corporate staff. He has relied heavily on automation and robotics while giving management and rank-and-file workers financial incentives tied to productivity.
Mr. Iverson said products from the Crawfordsville mill would initially go to lower-grade uses like decks, joists and siding for buildings. But he said there were also short-term automotive uses, like clamps that hold down starters and batteries.
Within a few years, he said, the mill should be making higher-quality sheets for automobile hoods and appliances. ''There is nothing we can see,'' he said, ''that won't allow us to provide a high-quality flat-rolled product that's as good as anything in the market today.''

GRAPHIC: The Nucor Corporation mill in Crawfordsville, Ind., produces flat-rolled steel with significantly different technology. After steel is thinned and rolled, a worker cuts a sample from a roll for quality testing. (NYT/Mary Ann Carter); F. Kenneth Iverson, chairman of the Nucor Corporation. (NYT/Candace Freeland)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NUE (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (96%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (96%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NUCOR CORP (96%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUCOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; INDIANA; CRAWFORDSVILLE (IND)

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); 

PERSON: IVERSON, F KENNETH; HICKS, JONATHAN P F KENNETH IVERSON (92%); 



31 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Down by 0.4% in October

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1

 BODY:
In another sign of a slackening economy, the Government's main forecasting index fell by four-tenths of 1 percent in October, the fifth decline so far this year.
But despite a host of recent lackluster-to-poor readings and the belief of some experts that a recession is imminent, many analysts said today that they still saw no end to the business expansion. The current recovery, the second longest on record, has just entered its eighth year, albeit amid indications that growth has slowed markedly.
''We're not part of this pack that says the economy is sagging into recession,'' said Stephen S. Roach, principal senior economist at Morgan Stanley & Company. He noted that the two biggest contributors to the latest decline in the index of leading indicators - a rise in initial claims for unemployment insurance and a decline in the length of the average workweek - were both adversely affected by special factors. 
Jobless claims spurted as a result of Hurricane Hugo, and the workweek was shortened by a strike, which has been since been settled, at the Boeing Company.
Meanwhile, the National Bureau of Economic Research, a private research group that is considered the unofficial arbiter of business cycles, has reported that its experimental recession index shows the chance of a recession within the next six months to be 9 percent. That is down from a 13 percent reading after the September indicators were announced. The Boston-based research organization holds ''a significantly more optimistic outlook'' for the economy now than it had in the summer and early autumn.
The Commerce Department's report today on the leading indicators, which was about as forecast, was not expected to have much effect on economic policy makers at the Federal Reserve. That is because most of the components had previously been reported and because the index has recently been criticized as unreliable and has been altered slightly as a result.
Nonetheless, the stock market got a lift from the news as investors appeared to believe that the central bank would soon decide to ease credit another notch to prevent the economic slowdown from turning into a contraction. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 41.38 points, to 2,747.65.
The bond market did not react in kind. Dealers said traders were continuing to wait for clear signals about the direction of interest rates. The price of the Treasury's closely watched 30-year bond rose yesterday as its yield fell to 7.87 percent, down from 7.88 percent on Thursday.
Additional evidence of a slowdown in the manufacturing sector emerged today when the National Association of Purchasing Management reported that its main index of manufacturing activity fell a full point in October, to 46.6 percent, its seventh straight decline. The group says a reading below 50 is a sign of a shrinking economy.
Noting, however, that factories account for only 18 percent of American jobs - and that some areas of manufacturing continue to do well - Joan D. Schneider, an economist for the Continental Bank in Chicago, said she was not very worried. ''The economy doesn't have a lot of forward momentum,'' she asserted, while adding that it did not show signs of heading into a recession.
In all, six of the 11 components of the Commerce Department's index eased in October, but apart from jobless claims and the workweek all of the declines were small. These were in manufacturers' unfilled orders, consumer expectations, the slowness of supplier deliveries and manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods and for materials.
Four components that rose, all by modest amounts, were building permits, the M-2 money supply, prices of sensitive materials, and contracts and orders for plants and equipment. Stock prices eked out a tiny advance - far less than one-hundredth of 1 percent - despite the plunge in the market on Oct. 13.
The Commerce Department also reported that it had revised slightly upward the gains in the leading index that it had previously reported for the two preceding months. The September increase is now three-tenths of 1 percent, instead of two-tenths, and the August increase is six-tenths, instead of five-tenths.
 
 Two Private Indexes
 But two predictive indexes compiled in the private sector were clearly negative. David B. Bostian Jr., chief economist at Jesup & Lamont, reported today that his macro-economic index, which signaled a recession in August by dropping below minus 50, skidded to a new low of minus 70 in October. The Safian Investment Research index, which has fallen every month this year except for August, fell again in October, but only slightly.
The Commerce Department's report also showed that the index of coincident indicators, which plots current economic conditions, was unchanged in October. The index of lagging indicators climbed by four-tenths of 1 percent.
This caused a decline of four-tenths of 1 percent in the coincident-lagging ratio, considered by economists to be an alternative predictor.
The various changes left the index of leading indicators at 144.6 percent of its 1982 base of 100. So far this year, the index has declined at a rate of four-tenths of 1 percent, in contrast to a 3.8 percent rate of advance for the comparable period of 1988.
Generally speaking, three straight months of a decline is deemed to signal a recession two or three quarters ahead. But, frequently, no such downturn has occurred - most recently in the final four months of 1987.

GRAPHIC: Chart of component analysis of leading economic indicators (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis); graph of index of 11 indicators designed to ''lead,'' or predict overall economic activity (Source: Commerce Dept.) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (70%); BOE (LSE) (68%); BAB (BRU) (68%); BA (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (70%); MORGAN STANLEY (70%); BOEING CO (68%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (55%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BOND MARKETS (85%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR



32 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: A Soft Red Glow on Madison Ave.

BYLINE: By RANDALL ROTHENBERG

 BODY:
In American marketing, the Russian bear has become a pussycat.
American popular culture has long followed the twists and turns of the nation's diplomatic relationship with the Soviet Union. The clearest example today is in advertising. When President Bush meets with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union in Malta later today, he can look for support to the Pepsi-Cola Company, which recently released a commercial entitled ''Glasnost,'' a paean to the normal nature of Soviet family life, and to A.T.& T., which has been selling telephones with a television spot that depicts a Soviet-American friendship parade. 
The message in these and other new ads is simple: The Russians are just like us.
 
 Stolichnaya Sales Up
 It is a far cry from the winter of 1986, when a commercial for Miller Lite beer closed with Yakov Smirnoff, a Russian emigre comedian, saying: ''In America, you can always find a party. In Russia, party always find you.''
''It would not sell one can of beer today,'' Mr. Smirnoff said in an interview on Thursday.
The nation's new, benign attitude toward the Soviet Union is evident throughout the media and marketing industries. Home Box Office is broadcasting an original movie, entitled ''Red King, White Knight,'' about a former C.I.A. agent's effort to thwart the assassination of a Gorbachev-like Soviet leader. Domestic sales of Stolichnaya vodka, which declined in 1983 after the Soviets shot down a Korean Air Lines passenger jet, grew more than 50 percent between 1985 and 1988, as glasnost bloomed.
''There is a culture of cold war and a culture of detente,'' said Lary L. May, a University of Minnesota historian and the editor of ''Recasting America: Culture and Politics in the Age of Cold War,'' published by the University of Chicago Press last year. ''If the culture of detente wasn't there, you wouldn't have this quick switcharound we're seeing now.''
The transition has been dramatic in advertising, an area that many scholars believe both reflects and helps shape the larger culture. ''Advertising has played a significant role in establishing our frames of reference and perception,'' wrote Prof. Roland Marchand, a historian at the University of California at Davis.
 
Bottle Opener at the Ready
 Pepsi-Cola has released two television commercials that portray the Soviet Union favorably. The first, entitled ''Floats,'' first appeared 18 months ago, and depicts an American astronaut and a Russian astronaut in Earth orbit. A bottle of Pepsi floats into the hands of one. Serendipitously, the other produces a bottle opener.
Such imagery reflects the ad industry's acute sensitivity to anything that might help make a sale, including the slightest whiffs of social change.
''It's important for any product that wants to be in the contemporary mainstream to be not a step ahead, not a step behind, but a step with,'' said Philip B. Dusenberry, the chairman of BBDO, New York, the agency that creates Pepsi's advertising.
A television commercial currently on the air in Italy and created by the Young & Rubicam agency's Milan office shows a young couple cavorting in Red Square, playfully tossing snowballs and having their picture taken by a smiling Russian soldier. The product in question: Barilla, an Italian pasta.
 
Ale for a Hammer
 In the United States, other contemporary ads with an Eastern tilt include a new campaign for Lowenbrau light beer that mimics the imagery of the socialist realist art of the 1930's that exhorted workers to toil for the good of the state.
A subway poster for the new campaign shows a blond, cartoon worker boldly astride the world. Instead of a hammer, his upraised arms hold a bottle of golden ale.
This is not the first time that American popular culture has reflected shifting foreign policy objectives regarding the Soviet Union. From 1941 through 1944, Hollywood reveled in the World War II partnership between Washington and Moscow, Professor May said. Films like ''Mission to Moscow'' and ''Song of Russia'' extolled the courage of the Russian people and the beauty of their land.
But after the 1945 Yalta summit meeting that led to the division of Europe into Western and Communist blocs, Hollywood's ardor cooled considerably, impelled partly by the House Un-American Activities Committee's investigation of earlier films favorable to the Soviet Union. More than 40 movies with anti-Soviet themes, including ''I Was A Communist For the F.B.I.,'' were made between 1947 and 1952, Professor May said.
 
'Refreshing Changes'
 The latest shift in popular opinion has been accompanied by commercial messages from American companies like Pepsi and A.T.& T., several of which actually claim credit for themselves - and, by extension, for Western capitalism - for the changes taking place in the Soviet Union.
The Pepsi ad entitled ''Glasnost'' includes a young boy in a leather jacket listening to pounding rock music as his father complains - a familiar scene played in Russian with subtitles. Against it, an announcer says, ''Not very long ago, America introduced Pepsi to the Soviet Union. While it may be just a coincidence, a lot of refreshing changes have been taking place ever since.''
Four years ago, when negative Soviet imagery predominated, the advertisers overwhelmingly were small companies, like Royal Crown Cola, MCI Communications and Wendy's hamburgers, fighting for market share against large, entrenched competitors - like Pepsi-Cola, A.T.& T. and McDonald's - who were compared to the faceless Soviet bureaucracy that prevented people from choosing their own destiny.
Royal Crown humorously depicted downtrodden Russian peasants forced by commissars to choose between Pepsi and Coke. Behind closed doors, however, a group of dancing dissidents celebrated with R.C.
''The old ads deprecated the Soviets on one thing - the quality and level of consumption,'' said Robert Goldman, a sociologist at Lewis and Clark College in Portland, Ore. who studies advertising themes. ''My interpretation of the new ones is, the Russians are just like us - they want to consume.''
 
Changing an Act
 Americans who now empathize with, rather than ridicule, the economic plight of the Soviet Union have forced other, more subtle changes in popular culture. For example, Mr. Smirnoff, the Russian comedian, has changed the comedy act that propelled him to nightclub and television stardom.
''As my whole act was revolving around Soviet issues in a negative way, I had to change my whole image,'' he said. ''It has turned me from a Russian comedian into a comedian who used to be from Russia.''
While he is still in demand as a commercial spokesman, Mr. Smirnoff said agencies were changing the content of the ads they created for him. In a campaign planned for next year, he said, Best Western motels will use him to compare its effort to upgrade its lodgings to the Soviet Union's attempt at economic restructuring.
More significantly, American marketing's infatuation with all things Russian is being matched by glimmers of positive American sentiment in the advertising that has recently begun to appear on Soviet television.
Moscow residents have recently seen a commercial for Pilyot watches that includes shot after shot of victorious American athletes at the 1988 summer Olympic Games.

GRAPHIC: In a scene from the Pepsi commercial entitled ''Glasnost,'' young Soviet rock musicians pass a Pepsi kiosk as they drive to an engagement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EARTH (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: PEPSI-COLA CO (83%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); COLD WAR (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); SALES & SELLING (78%); HISTORY (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (76%); RETAIL SALES (74%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); FAMILY (73%); AIRLINES (69%); BEER & ALE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 

PERSON: ROTHENBERG, RANDALL GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



33 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Assets Drop At Savings Institutions

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1

 BODY:
The assets of the nation's savings and loan institutions continued to shrink significantly in September in preparation for tough financial standards that take effect next week, the Government said today.
Assets at the nation's 2,903 savings institutions fell by $15.2 billion, breaking the record set in August of $13.3 billion, the Office of Thrift Supervision said.
In terms of deposits, a net amount of $8.9 billion was withdrawn from the institutions, which was up from $5.3 billion in withdrawals in August and the most since February. The February outflow of $9.2 billion had been the second-largest on record after January, which had an outflow of $10.8 billion. 
Early in the year depositors had fled savings and loan institutions -fearing a possible tax on their deposits as a way to finance an industry rescue - in favor of higher rates paid by money market funds.
September was the 16th month out of the last 17 to record an outflow. Deposits rose only in July, and then by just $51 million.
Economists attributed the continuing declines to the industry's efforts to meet new capital standards. The standards, which take effect on Thursday, require the savings and loan associations to back their lending and investments with more capital. The requirement is part of the Federal savings and loan rescue legislation enacted in August.
The rescue will provide $159 billion to close down almost 700 sick savings institutions over the next 10 years.
For years, the industry was permitted to operate at capital levels between 1 percent and 3 percent of assets, but those requirements will more than double under the rescue legislation. Some analysts predict the industry could be forced to raise more than $30 billion in new capital through stock offerings; cash infusions from mergers with outside investors, or by shrinking the overall size of the institution, while keeping the amount of capital constant.
The Office of Thrift Supervision has estimated that about 800 savings institutions will fall short of the new requirement.
Many savings institutions have had difficulty raising capital from private investors. As a result, they have been selling assets.
James Christian, an economist with the United States League of Savings Institutions, said the shrinkage will probably continue next year, but at a slower pace.
Bert Ely, a financial institutions analyst in Alexandria, Va., said much of the asset sales had been in mortgage-backed securities, which are among the most easily sold.
That could cause problems for the savings institutions. By July 1991, they will be required to hold 70 percent of their assets in housing, up from 60 percent.
But Mr. Ely said ''there is some sense - maybe it's more wish than hope - that Congress at some time is going to ease up on the standards'' for housing loans.
Mortgage originations of $15.4 billion in September were down $1.1 billion from a month earlier and were off 34 percent from the period a year earlier because of the softer real estate market in 1989, the Office of Thrift Supervision said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (83%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; SAVINGS BANKS (MUTUAL) SAVINGS & LOANS (96%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DIVESTITURES (86%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); STOCK OFFERINGS (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 



34 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up in Quiet Trading; Gold Prices Also Increase

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar posted some gains yesterday against other major currencies in relatively quiet foreign exchange trading.
Gold prices also increased. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery rose by $2 a troy ounce, to $413.60. 
Currency traders in Europe said the dollar was helped by profit taking in the West German mark, which has risen steadily against the dollar over the last month.
In the United States, analysts said many traders decided to buy dollars as a hedge against potentially market-moving announcements from the weekend American-Soviet meeting between President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
 
Weakening and Rebound
 ''The dollar traded with some strength today,'' said Craig Sloane, financial futures analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. He added that the dollar received some early support from concerns about the attempted coup in the Philippines and each time the currency weakened, it managed to rebound.
Mr. Sloane said the Government's report that its index of leading economic indicators fell by four-tenths of 1 percent in October and the national purchasing managers' survey that indicated the economy continued to decline had little impact on the currency markets.
''There was nothing in those reports that wasn't anticipated by the market,'' he said. He described currency trading as light to moderate.
Against the West Germany currency, the dollar rose to 1.7865 marks, from 1.7815 late Thursday.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing of 143.08 Japanese yen, from 142.90 yen at Thursday's close. Later, in London, it slipped to 143.05 yen. In New York, the dollar rose to 143.40 yen, from 142.80 yen late Thursday.
The dollar gained ground against the British pound. In London, the pound fell to $1.5665, from $1.5700 late Thursday. In New York, it fell to $1.5625, from $1.5700 Thursday.
 
Late New York Rates
 Other dollar rates in New York, compared with late rates Thursday, included: 1.5995 Swiss francs, up from 1.5930; 6.1020 French francs, up from 6.0840; 1,316.50 Italian lire, up from 1,312.25, and 1.6505 Canadian dollars, up from 1.16405.
At the Republic National Bank in New York, gold was quoted late in the day at $413.50 a troy ounce, up $2.85 from Thursday's late bid.
In London, gold rose to a late bid of $414 a troy ounce, up from $410.60 late Thursday, while it climbed to $415 an ounce in Zurich, from $409.50 late Thursday. In Hong Kong, gold rose by $8.39, to $414.15 an ounce.
Silver for current delivery slipped 0.5 cent a troy ounce, to $5.663, on New York's Comex. Earlier, silver rose in London to a late bid of $5.70 a troy ounce, up from $5.64 late Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (52%); HSB (PAR) (52%); HBC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (70%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (52%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (52%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (96%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (67%); COUPS (53%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 



35 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45, Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Angels and Langston Agree on $16 Million

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
In the ever-escalating world of baseball economics, Mark Langston is the latest highest-paid player in the game's history.
Langston, a free-agent left-handed pitcher, reached agreement yesterday with the California Angels on a five-year contract worth $16 million.
The Angels, with their owner, Gene Autry, leading the charge, won the expensive sweepstakes over the Yankees and the Los Angeles Dodgers, who were willing to give Langston a five-year contract but, said one source familiar with the negotiations, not the no-trade provision the Angels agreed to.
The no-trade provision was one of the significant features of the contract because clubs have become reluctant to grant such clauses. Rickey Henderson received one when he agreed last Tuesday to remain with Oakland. 
 
First Five-Year Deal Since 1985
The length also is significant. It is the first five-year contract a player has received since Eddie Murray signed a five-year extension with Baltimore in July 1985.
''Length and the no-trade provision were determining factors,'' Arn Tellem, Langston's agent, said by telephone from his office in Los Angeles.
The value of the contract, of course, also is important because it continues the star-salary escalation that has whirled through baseball in the past two weeks.
On Nov. 17, Bret Saberhagen signed a three-year extension with Kansas City for $8.9 million. Five days later, Kirby Puckett of Minnesota became baseball's first $3 million-a-year player, signing with the Twins for $9 million over three years. Less than a week later, Henderson got $12 million over four years from the Athletics.
 
Most Money Ever Guaranteed
Langston could have been the first to average $3 million a year last summer if he had accepted Montreal's three-year, $9 million offer. But he rejected it, became a free agent and now has a contract that averages $3.2 million a year for two additional years.
Along with the average being the highest ever, the $16 million is the most money ever guaranteed a player. When Dave Winfield signed with the Yankees nine years ago, he was guaranteed $15 million for 10 years.
''It gives Mark peace of mind,'' Tellem said. ''He knows he's going to be there for five years with a team that is serious about winning. A player's control over his own destiny was a concern with me. The five years and the no-trade provision were important. Mark and I knew this would have an impact on other players. We wanted to send a message to other players that it could be done.''
The Angels, whose owner has tried desperately to reach the World Series, have been among the most aggressive pursuers of free agents. To land Langston, they gave him a $1.5 million signing bonus, to be paid next month, and salaries of $1.5 million next season and $3.25 million in each of the subsequent four seasons.
 
Yanks Strike Out
Perhaps the biggest losers were the Yankees, whose owner, George Steinbrenner, reverted to his strategy of courting free agents himself. Tellem declined to discuss details of his talks with Steinbrenner, but said they never really got into a specific amount of money.
Steinbrenner did not return a telephone call yesterday, but George Bradley, a club vice president, said money really was not an issue. ''Everybody who was in the Langston sweepstakes was going to be in the same area,'' he said from Tampa, Fla.
He denied that the no-trade provision had been a factor. ''We never got into that discussion at all,'' he said. ''We did everything we could, but we had no control over it. He wanted to go to the West Coast. We can't move New York between Los Angeles and San Diego.''
 
Yanks Need a Starting Pitcher
The failure to get Langston was a setback for the Yankees, who signed Pascual Perez but still need starting pitching.
''We started out to go hot and heavy for pitching,'' Bradley said. ''We got one, we didn't get this one. This isn't going to deter us. I think Langston was the impact player out there. We still want a starting pitcher.''
Langston, who earned $1.4 million this year pitching for Seattle and Montreal, had a combined 16-14 record. After joining the Expos in late May, he won 10 of his first 13 decisions, but he tailed off and finished with a 12-9 record. Langston, who led the American League in strikeouts three times with Seattle, had his biggest winning season in 1987, when he won 19 games.
 
 PHILLIES SIGN MARTiNEZ
 Carmelo Martinez, a San Diego outfielder last season, also signed as a free agent, agreeing with the Philadelphia Phillies on a two-year, $1.75 million contract.
Mark Davis remains one of the most desirable free agents still available, and the Padres have offered their star relief pitcher salary arbitration.
 
WHO'S MAKING THE MOST 

$	 	 	 		Duration	Total	Annual	Player, Team	of Contract	Value	Average	 	 	 	 	Mark Langston, Angels	5 years	$16,000,000	$3,200,000	Rickey Henderson, Athletics	4 years	12,000,000	3,000,000	Kirby Puckett, Twins	3 years	9,000,000	3,000,000	Bret Saberhagen, Royals	3 years	8,900,000	2,966,667	Orel Hershiser, Dodgers	3 years	7,900,000	2,633,333	Frank Viola, Mets	3 years	7,900,000	2,633,333	
GRAPHIC: Mark Langston has become the highest-paid player in baseball. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES DODGERS INC (67%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (94%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (94%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (57%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ANGELS

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); SWEEPSTAKES (71%); 

PERSON: LANGSTON, MARK; CHASS, MURRAY BRET WILLIAM SABERHAGEN (54%); 



36 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Building Outlays Up In October

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1

 BODY:
Bolstered by the first gain in single-family home building in nine months, construction spending climbed modestly in October, and analysts said the improvement suggested lower interest rates were helping end a construction slump.
The Commerce Department said today that spending rose 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $420.1 billion. The increase followed no change in September and a 1.5 percent gain in August. Construction spending fell in July and June. 
In October, residential construction, which accounts for nearly half of all building activity, rose by nine-tenths of 1 percent, to an annual rate of $193.6 billion, reversing a nine-tenths drop in September.
 
First Rise Since January
 Single-family construction rose by eight-tenths of 1 percent in October. It was the first increase since January and followed a 1 percent fall a month earlier. Multifamily building, plagued by high vacancy rates, rose by 1.8 percent after dropping 3 percent.
Analysts have been expecting the construction industry to begin rebounding in response to interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. The Fed sought to dampen inflationary pressures by pushing rates up through the spring. By June, when signs of a slump emerged, the central bank starting nudging rates down, with the most recent cut coming early in November.
Fixed-rate mortgages, for instance, averaged 10.1 percent at the beginning of October and finished the month at 9.82 percent, according to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. This week, they averaged 9.74 percent.
 
Nonresidential Increase
 Nonresidential construction advanced 1.2 percent during October, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $102.6 billion following a decline of four-tenths of 1 percent in September.
The gain was led by a 3.7 percent increase in shopping center and other commercial projects and supported by a 1.7 percent jump in factory construction. Hotel and motel building was flat, while office construction fell 1.1 percent.
Government construction spending rose 1.7 percent, to an annual rate of $88 billion, following a 2.7 percent increase in September. The biggest single government category, highway construction, fell 1.8 percent while construction of schools and sewers both increased.

GRAPHIC: Graph of total construction spending, May 1988-Oct. 1989 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (94%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (78%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); INFLATION (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 



37 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2383 words

HEADLINE: Buying Drugs: The Commuter Customers - A special report:
Out-of-Towners Find New York City a Drug Bazaar

BYLINE: By M. A. FARBER with DON TERRY

 BODY:
In midafternoon on Aug. 3, Randal Swanson, a 29-year-old baker from West Caldwell, N.J., steered his black Toyota along West 162d Street in Manhattan, between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue, looking to buy cocaine.
It took only seconds, he recalled last week.
''As soon as they saw my New Jersey plates, they ran over to the car,'' he said. ''I said what I wanted and I got it. I had $35 in my hand and we swapped. I barely stopped the car.'' 
But two or three blocks later, Mr. Swanson was stopped - snared in a Police Department Tactical Narcotics Team operation. At a red light, he was arrested by officers who, he said, threatened to ''blow my head off if I moved.'' His car was confiscated.
Throughout the year, thousands of people who live and work outside New York City - plumbers and doctors, homemakers and laboratory technicians, clerks and tile workers - pour into Washington Heights, Inwood and Harlem in Manhattan; the South Bronx; the Flatbush section of Brooklyn; the eastern end of the Rockaways in Queens, all in search of drugs.
They come from the middle-class or blue-collar reaches of northern New Jersey, from Nassau and Westchester and Rockland Counties, because the price or the quality of the drugs in New York City is often better than at home.
They come because the supply of cocaine or crack or heroin is temporarily short in White Plains or Jersey City or because, at odd hours of the night, when the need for a high may be pressing, dealers in the city are still awake and doing business.
They come because they do not want to be seen buying drugs in their own town.
And they come, frequently in pairs and carrying knives if not guns, despite the risks from those selling drugs -and from those trying to get drugs off the streets.
In some of the toughest neighborhoods in the city, the outsiders are valued customers, people who, for the most part, have enough cash and do not want to quibble or linger. It is easy, say both the police and the buyers, to get almost any drug in these quick, anonymous transactions.
It is not so easy, at times, to get home.
 
Three Who Died Violently
On Nov. 12, around 5:40 A.M., a 33-year-old woman from Weehawken, N.J., Janet Pierro, was shot to death while driving with her 4-year-old son near West 141st Street and Hamilton Place in Harlem. The police believe she was trying to buy heroin. The child was not injured.
Last December, a 24-year-old man from New Rochelle, N.Y., Willie Schaffer, was shot to death, and two friends were wounded, about 4 A.M. in the High Bridge section of the Bronx. The police said the three, as well as a companion who was beaten up, appeared to be seeking drugs.
In April 1988, a 32-year-old woman from Fairview, N.J., Lidia Ferraro, was shot to death by five police officers after a chase ended at 2 A.M. at Park Avenue and 124th Street in East Harlem. A toxicological examination showed cocaine and heroin in Mrs. Ferraro's body. A grand jury concluded that although the woman turned out to be unarmed, the officers were justified in using deadly force.
 
The Ports of Entry
 
Over the Bridge, Through the Tunnels
The police believe that upper Manhattan, particularly the Washington Heights section just east of the George Washington Bridge, is a prime locus for drug purchases by suburban residents and those from nearby cities.
In the year ended last August, the Port Authority police made 763 drug arrests at the George Washington Bridge, 694 at the Lincoln Tunnel and 146 at the Holland Tunnel. Most of the arrests occurred between 8 P.M. and 1 A.M., and most of the cars were returning to New Jersey.
Henry I. DeGeneste, Superintendent of the Port Authority police, said the people arrested ''run the whole socio-economic scale,'' with those at the lower end of the scale caught at the Holland Tunnel, those in the middle at the Lincoln Tunnel and people at the upper end of the scale at the George Washington Bridge, which is used by residents of some of New Jersey's wealthiest counties. Much of the Lincoln Tunnel traffic is bound for the Times Square area, the police say, and the Holland Tunnel is a frequent route to drug sellers on the Lower East Side and in Greenwich Village.
 
The Arrests
 
3,234 Cars Seized In Three Years
Superintendent DeGeneste said that while some drug buyers are caught at roadblocks set up to catch drunken drivers, most drug arrests by the Port Authority police begin with a car being stopped for speeding or making unsafe lane changes on the way back to New Jersey. On occasion, undercover officers who see a drug purchase in the city will radio ahead to the Port Authority or New Jersey police, giving them the buyer's license plate number.
''Basically that's how we come in contact with them,'' he said. ''They're in such a damn hurry to get back to their communities. It's amazing how often we find drugs just sitting on the seats. They don't think they're going to get stopped.''
Superintendent DeGeneste added that many of those arrested appear to be high and do not have the presence of mind to conceal the narcotics they are carrying. In addition to making arrests, the police and the Federal Drug Enforcement Administration in mid-1986 began confiscating cars - usually from drug buyers rather than sellers -in which drugs were found.
From then until Oct. 31, 3,234 cars had been seized, almost half of them this year. More than 1,500 of the cars were registered to owners living in New York City, 877 in New York State but outside the city, 621 in New Jersey, 31 in Connecticut and 135 elsewhere. About a quarter of the owners have been able to reclaim their cars, most often in cases where the owner was not the one arrested. The city auctioned off 767 cars, raising $490,545.
While there is no complete profile of the owners of the confiscated cars, the police say the great majority are white, have no criminal records and range in age from late teens to early 40's. In the operation on Aug. 3, which has been repeated periodically, 102 people were arrested besides Mr. Swanson, and among the 82 cars seized 52 were from New Jersey.
Seventeen of those arrested on Aug. 3 were charged with felonies; the most severe sentence given so far was 90 days in jail. Of the 86 people charged with misdemeanors, the longest term was 23 days.
Capt. Robert J. Curley, commander of the Tactical Narcotics Team in upper Manhattan, said that while dealers in Washington Heights supplied wholesale quantities of drugs over several police precincts and beyond, most of the buyers from outside the city appeared to be interested in small quantities, up to a gram or two, for ''casual, personal use.'' Still, he said, ''these people help to drive the drug trade.''
 
A New Jersey Baker
 
At Home, the Price Is Twice as High
 Mr. Swanson, the New Jersey baker, described himself as just such an occasional user of drugs.
He said in an interview that he started coming into upper Manhattan to buy drugs about a year ago, with a friend who had been doing the same. The availability of drugs in the city was one factor, he said. But the main reason he came was to reduce his cost by eliminating a middleman.
''If I bought in New Jersey what I bought in New York,'' he said, ''the price would be twice as much. And the stuff wouldn't be as good. Getting it in New York seemed simple and easy.''
Mr. Swanson said that before his Aug. 3 arrest, he had been arrested once before in the city for having drugs. He said he was ''let go because it was a first offense,'' and afterward he refrained for months from coming into the city for drugs.
When he returned, he was surprised at being caught, considering, he said, that ''it's such a large market, so many people doing it.'' Mr. Swanson, who is married and has two children, agreed to plead guilty to a lesser charge, disorderly conduct. Now, he said, he plans to give up drugs.
''I was in the wrong, no doubt about it,'' he said. ''I was foolish. I learned my lesson.''
For others, especially those addicted to drugs, the lessons have come harder.
Three people from outside the city who have gone into treatment at Daytop Village recently described their experiences buying drugs in the city. Their stories illustrate the reasons for this variant on commuter traffic and the dangers in it.
 
A Former Student
 
'It's Amazing I Didn't Get Killed'
Eric Z., 24, a thin, blond former student at Rockland Community College, grew up in Rockland County. He started coming to the city to buy drugs while still in high school ''because it was fun,'' he said. He went at all hours to the streets around Yankee Stadium in the Bronx and to the side streets off Second Avenue in East Harlem. Eventually he bought heroin in Washington Heights, in abandoned buildings where ''pitchers'' would weigh out the heroin on scales and ''catchers'' would take his money.
''It's amazing I didn't get killed,'' he said. He was beaten up and robbed one night near Webster Avenue in the Bronx while his girlfriend sat a distance away in his 1979 Buick. He was stopped by the police on the Palisades Interstate Parkway, with syringes on the floor of his car, but managed to toss them out of sight. Another time, a friend swallowed a bag of heroin when a police car pulled alongside Eric's.
Occasionally Eric was sold tainted drugs. He lined up for drugs outside holes in the walls of buildings, speaking to other buyers only to ''find out what's good, where the best was that day.'' For protection he carried a knife. But once he was addicted to both heroin and cocaine, Eric said, he lost all fear of being in rough city neighborhoods and noticed that many of the other buyers, too, were ''more afraid of the cops than of the locals.'' At new spots, he often had to ''show my track marks to prove I wasn't a cop.''
Eric, who said he sometimes made two or three trips a day to the city for drugs, said he was able to support his $150-a-day habit by stealing jewelry at a store where he worked and by selling drugs, at a markup, to others in Rockland County.
 
A Jersey City Commuter
 
Drugs, Too, for Sale In Diamond District
Kim P., who is 29 and has lived all her life in Jersey City, bought cocaine on West 47th Street, in Manhattan's diamond district, when she worked in the area in 1988 as a dental assistant. ''It was over one of those watch places,'' she said, ''and they only took certain people.'' When she was ''really desperate,'' she recalled, she bought cocaine along West 42d Street, near the Port Authority Bus Terminal. ''But that was mostly junk,'' she said, ''a ripoff.''
As recently as July, Kim drove with male friends or acquaintances - never alone - over the George Washington Bridge to buy drugs near West 134th Street or in the Bronx. ''If you saw crowds at 3 A.M.,'' she said, ''you knew they were selling.''
In New York, Kim said, ''you could get drugs at any hour.'' In Jersey City, at night, the dealers might themselves be in New York. ''It all comes down to convenience and urgency,'' she said. ''The risk doesn't matter. You don't think about it.''
 
A New Jersey Carpenter
 
'You Do Anything To Get That Hit'
Dennis M., 30, a carpenter and former subway conductor in the city, grew up in Brooklyn and now lives in Sayreville, N.J. But on frequent visits back to Brooklyn, he said, he would smoke cocaine with friends. Often he took drugs home with him across the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge or through the Holland Tunnel.
In recent months he began using crack and, finding none in the New Jersey bars where powdered cocaine was plentiful, bought crack in Flatbush. ''You do anything to get that hit,'' he said. He was soon stealing cars and was holed up in a crack house. He had, as he put it, ''hit rock bottom.''
Patricia B., 22, is a New York City resident. But she grew up in the leafy, suburban-flavored Riverdale section of the Bronx, a world away from the streets to which drugs took her. For six years she attended one of the city's most distinguished college preparatory schools, Horace Mann in Riverdale, and graduated from York Preparatory School in Manhattan, another private school. She started classes at Pace University. But, as she recalled, she might as well having been living ''on death row.''
 
'Just Wanted to Get High'
Patricia began using marijuana at 12, was sniffing cocaine by high school, and ''just wanted to get high and be left alone.'' By the time she was in college and working in a bagel store, she had her own apartment in Riverdale. A neighbor, Patricia said, ''turned me and my boyfriend on to crack.''
From then on, she said, her life was governed by the need for drugs. That meant constant forays - sometimes several times a night -into the drug markets of Inwood and Harlem and the South Bronx. When she lacked money, she said, she stole from her family, and she and her boyfriend worked out a way to rob gypsy cab drivers, some of whom chased them with bats. One night, ''after a few hits'' of drugs, she said, she was brutally attacked by a man to whom she was selling a chain.
Finally, when her weight had dropped to 88 pounds and, she said, ''I was ready to crack,'' a friend who had undergone treatment at Daytop Village persuaded her to go there. She is still in treatment, but has a job.
 
A Four-Minute Transaction
 
A Quick Conference At a Fruit Market
Despite the efforts of law-enforcement agencies, it still seems as easy to find an out-of-towner buying drugs in upper Manhattan as it is to find drugs themselves. And in all weather.
At 4:10 P.M. the other day, as the sky darkened and a biting wind swept the corner of Amsterdam Avenue and West 166th Street, and ''lookouts'' huddled in the doorway of the white stucco New Jerusalem Baptist Church, ready to shout ''bahando'' - ''coming down'' - if they spied the police, a blue Toyota Supra with New Jersey plates pulled up to the corner.
The driver stayed in the car, keeping the motor on. A gaunt woman emerged and hurried across Amsterdam Avenue to confer with a man in a baseball cap in front of Rosa's Fruit and Meat Market. The man left her for a minute, and the woman bounced up and down in the chill. The man returned. The woman dashed back to the Toyota. At 4:14 P.M., the car was gone.

GRAPHIC: Confiscation of their cars is only one of the many hazards illegal drug buyers face when they go to New York City to make their purchases. Cars confiscated last summer were stored at Pier 36 in Manhattan. (N.Y.P.D.) (pg. 56)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: AS SOON AS POSSIBLE INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON HEIGHTS (NYC)

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; COCAINE; AUTOMOBILES; SUBURBS; CRACK (COCAINE); HEROIN COCAINE (91%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); CITY LIFE (88%); HEROIN (88%); SHOOTINGS (85%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (85%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); ARRESTS (69%); 

PERSON: FARBER, M A; TERRY, DON



38 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: THE MALTA SUMMIT;
BUSH GIVES GORBACHEV ECONOMIC AND ARMS PROPOSALS

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VALLETTA, Malta, Dec. 2

 BODY:
President Bush offered an array of more than a dozen economic and arms proposals to President Mikhail S. Gorbachev today as they began their summit meeting, including an end to cold war trade restrictions.
Mr. Bush, meeting the Soviet leader on a gale-lashed day, proposed that immediate negotiations on a trade agreement, including giving normal tariff treatment to the Soviet Union, should begin once the Kremlin codifies new liberal emigration policy into law, according to White House officials.
The American officials did not say what proposals, if any, Mr. Gorbachev had offered, and no Soviet spokesman went into any detail on the first round of the scheduled two days of talks.
 
Storm Forces a Cancellation
The storm caused the two sides to cancel an afternoon session and an evening dinner because Mr. Bush could not travel from his base on an American warship to a Soviet ship 1,000 yards away. 
The White House officials, speaking anonymously, said that in five hours of shipboard meetings with the Soviet President, Mr. Bush had indicated that Washington would support granting the Soviets observer status at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the Western-dominated international trade organization, once the current round of talks in Uruguay ends by the end of next year. Such status would amount to giving the Soviets an entry to the Western trading community. [A list of the President's proposals, page 29.] On arms control, Mr. Bush reportedly offered to drop his resistance to ending production of binary chemical weapons in return for Soviet acceptance of his arms proposals at the United Nations in September. He proposed that a Soviet-American agreement be signed by the end of next year limiting each side's chemical weapons stockpiles to 20 percent of the current American level.
 
June Summit Date Proposed
The President also proposed that the Foreign Ministers of the two nations meet in Moscow in June in an effort to conclude a treaty limiting strategic nuclear weapons in time for the 1990 summit meeting, which Mr. Bush proposed be held in the last two weeks of June in Washington.
Mr. Bush said that the two sides should conclude the East-West negotiations on conventional arms reductions in Europe so that a treaty can be signed in Vienna by the end of next year by all the parties.
''The President came here prepared to seize the moment in the U.S.-Soviet relationship, and he thinks he has done so,'' a senior Administration official said after the opening talks.
A senior White House official said Mr. Gorbachev was ''extremely positive'' in general. He added, however, that the Soviet leader had reacted negatively when Mr. Bush said Moscow's relationship with Cuba and Nicaragua was ''the single most disruptive element'' in American-Soviet relations.
The summit meeting opened against a backdrop of sweeping popular demands in Eastern Europe for democratization and an end to hard-line Communist rule. This was on the agenda, but only mentioned briefly in a summary of the morning session.
 
Seeking Public Relations Edge
As Administration officials circulated tonight offering details of what they termed the ''Bush initiatives,'' it became clear that the White House, far from taking this summit meeting as the informal get-together previously advertised, was working hard to regain some of the public-relations momentum from Mr. Gorbachev.
The Soviet leader responded to Mr. Bush's list of proposals by describing it as ''tangible evidence of the President's commitment to perestroika,'' according to an official present at the meetings.
Mr. Bush also invited the Soviets to join in proposing that the 2004 Olympic Games be held on both sides of the Berlin wall.
In his speech to the United Nations in September, Mr. Bush proposed that the United States and the Soviet Union begin to slash their chemical wepaons to a level of 20 percent of American stocks and that this be done before a worldwide ban is agreed to.
He said any worldwide treaty should call for eliminating 98 percent of American stocks over eight years. The United States would keep 2 percent until all nations able to make chemical weapons acceded to the treaty.
Despite the proposal, the Administration intended to keep open the option of producing advanced chemical wepaons, known as binary, once the treaty went into efffect. This would have meant amending the treaty under negotiation.
Allies of the United States objected, and today's proposal to Mr. Gorbachev seems to be a way of backing off from continued production of binary weapons. Binary weapons involve two separate chemicals that are otherwise harmless but that form a lethal poison when mixed together.
Mr. Bush proposed initiating these reductions next year even before a scheduled multinational convention on chemical weapons is concluded. A number of his summit offerings, as reported by Administration officials, seemed timed for the summit meeting next year in the United States.
 
Afternoon Session Canceled
The opening session of the shipboard discussions was described by the White House as ''very productive, informal and substantive.''
But the afternoon session and dinner had to be canceled as rough seas swept into the harbor here and pinned down Mr. Bush aboard the cruiser Belknap.
Sixty-mile-an-hour winds kept four-foot-high whitecaps between him and Mr. Gorbachev, who rested easier aboard the larger Soviet cruise liner, Maxim Gorky, placidly tied at dockside here, only 1,000 yards from the storm-battened Belknap.
By evening, the storm-isolated Mr. Bush provided a graphic display of nature's power to disrupt the best laid plans of superpowers. Even so, the ranking diplomats would not allow any dampening of their estimate of the day's import.
''A good beginning,'' Secretary of States James A. Baker 3d said. His Soviet counterpart, Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze, described the crimped summit as of ''fundamental significance for world politics.''
 
Meetings Aboard Gorky
Before the sea washed over the agenda, the two leaders managed five hours of morning and luncheon meetings aboard the Gorky, including ''one on one'' discussion of more than an hour in which they were free of ministers and attended only by note-takers and translators.
''The meetings were marked by a spirit of forward-looking cooperation during these increasingly changing times,'' the White House said in a printed statement. ''They recognized that economic and political challenges were ahead for Eastern Europe, and vowed to consider the opportunities presented with sensitivity and firm initiative.''
Mr. Bush was described by the White House as finding the opening session ''extremely productive.'' He talked for more than an hour at the first meeting, raising ''more than a dozen ideas for economic and political progress in U.S.-Soviet relations,'' according to the White House.
Mr. Gorbachev then spoke about his plans for renewing Soviet economic and political life. Whereupon Mr. Bush ''emphasized his support for the success of perestroika,'' or Soviet restructuring, the White House said.
 
Weather Remains Uncertain
Officials of the White House and Kremlin made plans to revise the second day of scheduled talks on Sunday. The weather remained an uncertain factor into the night, with 16-foot waves raging just beyond the summit scene in the Marsaxlokk harbor of Malta.
Navy officials insisted that the winds must subside considerably before Mr. Bush attempts any more harbor trips in the Belknap's 40-foot motor launch.
The two Presidents made light of the weather as they met and shook hands at 10:05 A.M. on the Maxim Gorky. The Gorky became a backup meeting scene when the rising morning seas already had a heavy roll under the Belknap and her Soviet counterpart, the Slava, the cruisers where the talks were originally planned to take place.
''Let's go to work,'' a beaming Mr. Bush said after a few minutes of small talk and photo posing.
''We will be discussing everything,'' Mr. Gorbachev said minutes later as they sat down with aides in the Gorky's card room, a spacious library-like room decorated in mauve tones.
 
Officials at the Table
The group at the table included Secretary Baker, Mr. Shevardnadze and other ranking advisers. Mr. Gorbachev was flanked by his Foreign Minister and Aleksandr N. Yakovlev, the Politburo member who is the Soviet leader's closest aide. Also there were Defense Minister Sergei F. Akhromeyev and Anatoly I. Dobrynin, the former Ambassador to the United States.
Mr. Bush's party included his chief of staff, John H. Sununu; Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, Paul D. Wolfowitz, Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, and Robert Zoellick, counsellor to Mr. Baker.
The agenda, which had been planned as a fluid, informal way for the two leaders to become better acquainted, also included one of Mr. Bush's promised points of concern, his complaint that continuing Soviet military shipments to Cuba are finding their way into Nicaragua and El Salvador.
The Soviets issued no comparable details. Arkady Maslennikov, spokesman for the Supreme Soviet, summarized the initial session as ''not bad at all.''

GRAPHIC: President Bush greeting President Mikhail S. Gorbachev aboard the Soviet cruise ship Maxim Gorky. With them were Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze, left, and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d. (AP) (pg. 1); a Navy launch in heavy seas carrying President Bush back to the cruiser Belknap after his meeting with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev yesterday in Malta (Reuters); a Maltese man braving the weather to catch a glimpse of the Belknap, right, and the Soviet cruiser Slava, in Marsaxlokk Bay. (AP) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALTA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); URUGUAY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (82%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; JEWS; JACKSON-VANIK AMENDMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TARIFFS AND TRADE, GENERAL AGREEMENT ON (GATT); CHEMICAL WARFARE; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); WEATHER (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



39 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 29, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: THE MALTA SUMMIT;
Is Summitry Outmoded?

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VALLETTA, Malta, Dec. 2

 BODY:
When President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union complete their summit conference on Sunday, they will head off to tell their friends how they have done.
 
Mr. Bush will fly to
Brussels to brief the Western allies at the headquarters of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and Mr. Gorbachev will return to Moscow to confer with the other members of the Warsaw Pact. It is all standard operating procedure, the superpowers keeping the junior members of their alliances well informed of the latest policy developments.
But this time, things will be very different than in the past. 
Mr. Bush will be doing his briefing at the headquarters of a military alliance built to contain Soviet expansionism but now looking hard for a new role at a time when confrontation between East and West, across an iron curtain that is being disassembled, seems an increasingly remote prospect. And Mr. Gorbachev will be briefing a group of countries whose politics and leadership have been totally transformed by the dizzying events of 1989. A Cold-War Anachronism? To many Europeans, the whole notion of summit conferences between the Soviet Union and the United States, which have been so familiar a part of the cold war, seems as outmoded as the cold war itself. At a time when nuclear deterrence, for the first time in four decades, seems a less pressing question than the future shape of Europe, the critics say, it is the nations of Europe and not the United States and the Soviet Union that must make the really big decisions.
It is true that Mr. Gorbachev played a major role in the changes that have transformed Eastern Europe, first by instituting perestroika in his own country, then by accepting rapid political and economic evolution in Poland and Hungary, and finally by encouraging reform in East Germany, Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia. But he has less power now in the region than he did before.
''Think about it,'' said a leader of the Civic Forum opposition in Prague. ''The Soviets say that we have to keep the Warsaw Pact intact, because it will help to maintain stability in Europe, and the West agrees. But that's just a convenient fiction. Nobody in this part of Europe believes that Gorbachev could get the armies of Hungary and Poland and Czechoslovakia to take joint action anymore.''
 
'Let Them Have Their Meeting'
In the West, the decision of Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany to present, almost on the eve of the summit conference, a plan for the eventual amalgamation of the two Germanys demonstrated that NATO, while probably far more united than the Warsaw Pact at the moment, is not likely to be able to maintain the status quo for long either, however comfortable that might be.
The United States, furthermore, is not likely to be able to dominate the Western alliance in the way it once could.
At a conference in London not long ago, a French banker commented indignantly that he thought Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Bush should have changed their plans and invited all the major European nations to meet with them in Malta, ''to reflect what's really going on in the world these days.''
In reply, a Danish businessman advised him not to worry too much ''about two former superpowers, neither of them European, having their little meeting to talk about questions that Europeans are going to settle.''
 
Retooling the Old Alliances
Such comments are commonplace in Europe these days, but there are also many Europeans who welcome the idea of the United States and the Soviet Union maintaining an interest in their continent. Indeed, many would like to see NATO and the Warsaw Pact transformed into political organizations that would tie Moscow and Washington into the new political structures that emerge here.
Peter Jenkins, the political columnist of the Independent in London, is one commentator who believes that Mr. Gorbachev's acceptance of change in his sphere of influence is matched by a real commitment on the part of the Bush Administration to the idea that European integration is a good thing, not a threat to the United States. He thinks that this gives Europe a chance, which seemed improbable a few years ago, to shape its own future.
''Real Europeans should be drinking a toast to George Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev,'' said Mr. Jenkins, ''and not grousing about their absence from the conference table in Malta.''
Nonetheless, nearly all Europeans accept the proposition that whatever the result of Mr. Bush's talks with Mr. Gorbachev here, the American military presence in Europe is likely to decline in the years to come. The support of Defense Secretary Dick Cheney for cuts in United States troop levels has had a major impact because of his reputation as a hawk.
 
European Community to the Fore
What this will mean, of course, is more responsibility for Europe and especially for the European Community. The Soviet Union and the United States will retain their nuclear arsenals for the foreseeable future, and in that sense they will remain superpowers.
But as President Bush implicitly acknowledged earlier this year in agreeing in Paris to work through the Community in aiding Poland and Hungary, the simple days when Moscow and Washington made most of the big decisions regarding Europe are coming to an end. And in that regard, at least, summit conferences like the one here this weekend may well be obsolescent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: ANALYSIS

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); HUNGARY (92%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (91%); MALTA (90%); BULGARIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE; MALTA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SUMMIT CONFERENCES COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); POLITICS (78%); ARMIES (76%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S (MRS) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



40 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 29, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: THE MALTA SUMMIT;
Proposals Made by Bush At Meeting With Gorbachev

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VALLETTA, Malta, Dec. 2

 BODY:
Following, as outlined by American officials, are the proposals made by President Bush today in his meeting with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union:
Strategic Nuclear Weapons: The next summit meeting should be in the last two weeks of June 1990, in the United States.
The foreign ministers of the two countries should meet before then in the Soviet Union to discuss progress toward the summit.
The two foreign ministers should deal with three specific issues in limiting strategic nuclear arms: air-launched cruise missiles, non-deployed missiles and encoding of missile-launch data. The purpose would be to work toward signing a treaty on such weapons at the June summit meeting. 
Conventional Forces: Both sides should support the convening of a European summit meeting in Vienna in 1990 to sign a multinational treaty on reducing conventional armed forces in Europe.
Nuclear Testing: The two sides should complete work on a threshold test ban treaty and a treaty on peaceful nuclear explosions to be signed at the 1990 summit meeting.
Chemical Weapons: Mr. Bush would drop resistance to a ban on production of binary chemical weapons if Mr. Gorbachev agreed to support his arms control proposal made at the United Nations.
The two nations should negotiate and sign an agreement in 1990 to reduce American and Soviet chemical warfare weapons to 20 percent of current American stockpiles.
Military Disclosure: The Soviet Union should publish details of its military programs, such as the status of its armed forces, budget and weapons production.
Trade: The two countries should immediately begin negotiations on a trade agreement that would grant the Soviet Union most-favored-nation status.
The United States will support giving the Soviet Union observer status in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade starting in 1991.
The two sides should pursue expanded technical and economic cooperation in finance, agriculture, small business development, budget making, tax policy and stock exchanges.
Mr. Bush would explore with Congress the possibility of lifting restrictions on export-import credits in conjunction with most-favored-nation status.
The two sides should begin immediate negotiations on a bilateral investment treaty.
The Soviet Union should move toward market pricing on wholesale goods.
Human Rights: Mr. Gorbachev should resolve outstanding human rights cases. Mr. Bush presented a list of fewer than 100 cases, including those of divided families that Mr. Bush would like to see resolved by next summer.
Other Issues: The United States should sponsor a conference next fall on a global environmental treaty.
The two nations should exchange 1,000 college students beginning in the 1991 academic year.
Both countries should call for holding the Olympic Games in both parts of Berlin in 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MALTA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MALTA

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); BUDGETS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); TAX LAW (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (69%); IMPORT CONTROLS (67%); EXPORT CONTROLS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); OLYMPICS (60%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



41 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 30, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: CLAMOR IN EUROPE;
A Czech Tries to Start His Own Bandwagon

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Dec. 2

 BODY:
The man who heads the Institute for Forecasting at the Academy of Sciences, a research bureau devoted to discerning Czechoslovakia's economic and social future, has decided to take a hand in shaping it, stopping just short of publicly declaring that he wants to be Prime Minister.
The not so bashful political newcomer, Walter Kamarek, has been seen on state television eight times in a week, and a senior television official said he continues to ask for more time.
Handwritten posters calling for him to be named Prime Minister have sprung up all over Prague. His outspoken criticism of the old regime and hopeful forecasts in public meetings have given him a sudden, large following. 
At the beginning of the week, Mr. Kamarek, an economist who was unknown to the general public before the sudden blossoming of freedom began last month, privately informed the leaders of Civic Forum, the opposition conglomerate, that he stood ready to stand as the group's candidate for Prime Minister, Forum leaders reported.
The proposal embarrassed the brain trust of the Forum that had formed around Vaclav Havel, the playwright and dissident who leads the opposition by spontaneous consent. He had a long private conversation with the would-be candidate.
 
Support for the Premier
On the one hand, Forum leaders consider the economist, who has gained mass appeal virtually overnight by his powerfully expressed criticism of the country's eclipsed rulers, as a possible future leader. But in its first meeting with Prime Minister Ladislav Adamec last Monday, the Forum accepted Mr. Adamec as head of government on condition he present a multi-party Cabinet acceptable to the opposition by this weekend.
A Forum strategist said that having given Mr. Adamec a chance, the opposition could not at the same time rally to another candidate, particularly since the Forum does not want to become a political party. ''Kamarek should wait until Adamec has tried and failed and then have his chance,'' a Forum leader commented.
Mr. Kamarek does not seem to be in a waiting mood. On Thursday he called a news conference, largely for the many foreign correspondents here, distributed what in the United States would be called a campaign biography and sharply accused the Forum of being idealistic but politically inexperienced and ready to compromise with the ruling Communist Party. He said this would be ''a compromise between a democratic future and the forces of darkness.''
He did not elaborate on what he thought the Forum was compromising, but opposition leaders believe he alluded to the opposition group's present acceptance of Mr. Adamec.
 
Party Structure 'Remains Intact'
In his news conference, the 59-year-old economist, who wears his hair like Albert Einstein and keeps his beard trimmed to a point like Leon Trotsky, warned that although the power of the Communist Party had ''collapsed,'' there was ''real danger of its renewal.''
Mr. Kamarek has been a member of the party since 1946, but that has not stopped him from harshly attacking those at the heart of the party, likening them to a band of gangsters who will not readily relinquish control over their now diminished but still dangerous patronage networks.
Mr. Kamarek contends that behind Mr. Adamec and what he termed the collapsing ''facade'' of the party, ''the structure of power remains intact.'' In one of the phrases that helped to account for Mr. Kamarek's popularity, the economist described as ''a dreadful Mafia'' the hidden structure of power that he said the Soviet and Czechoslovak security services built up after the Soviet-led invasion of 1968.
Mr. Kamarek said 200,000 to 400,000 people distributed through the party and government machineries and involved in state security and military commands formed a structure that since 1968 had exercised ''ruthless economic and political repression.'' In all, the Czechoslovak party has 1.5 million members.
''It is a curious historical situation pitting 200,000 to 400,000 people against the 15 million Czechoslovaks,'' Mr. Kamarek said. He said ''the constant theat of Soviet tanks'' maintained this lopsided balance until ''the heroic stand of Mikhail S. Gorbachev'' upset it, causing the leadership to react first with harsher repression, like ''a fascist dictatorship,'' and then to collapse.
 
Reformers 'Excommunicated'
Mr. Kamarek said that despite economic stagnation, he based his optimism for a brighter future on new people, not party ''reformers.'' Acting like ''social fascists,'' the party ''excommunicated'' its reformers, he said. ''But we have something different -we have a reformist nation of educated people with historic links to European thinking, culture and traditions.''
Skeptics among the Forum leadership criticized Mr. Kamarek for the contrast between the strong phrases like ''Communism is nonsense,'' which he dropped on Thursday, and his 43-year, continuing membership in the party. They believe that he is positioning himself to be invited by the Communists or the opposition to head a government.
The biography distributed at his news conference stresses the many difficulties that he experienced in his career for assuming strongly individual positions. However, critics note that when after the 1968 invasion most independent-minded professionals were purged from their professions and expelled from the party, Mr. Kamarek weathered the storm.
Still, it is widely agreed that Mr. Kamarek's institute provided employment to many independent-minded social scientists and produced critical reports in the years when criticism was not in fashion. He also impressed visiting foreign journalists with frank observations when conformity was the keynote in all official interviews.

GRAPHIC: Walter Kamarek, an economist in Prague, who has stopped just short of publicly declaring that he wants to be Prime Minister. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CIVIC FORUM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); WRITERS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (57%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: KAMAREK, WALTER; KAMM, HENRY VACLAV HAVEL (55%); 



42 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 34, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Scrambling to Be Counted in Census

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2

 BODY:
For five years, an improbable collection of bureaucrats, business executives, health care professionals, members of ethnic groups and transportation planners have been trying to stake a claim to 3.5 square feet of valuable political real estate: the 1990 census questionnaire.
Their weapons are reports and statistical abstracts, memos, letters, and copies of laws, regulations and court decisions - the stuff that filing cabinets are made of. Their aim is, simply, to be counted.
At stake is access to, management of and often a share in hundreds of billions of dollars in Federal spending or tax breaks for groups of people the census tries to count, like the poor, the sick, the old, the young, homeowners and the homeless, veterans and the unemployed. 
The aim of the groups is largely to get questions on the long census form, which is sent to 17.6 million households and takes about 43 minutes to complete. There is also a short form, including questions asked of all 245 million Americans. It takes an average of 14 minutes.
 
Attitudes and Values
''If you win and you get on the form, you are then an identifiable social group - a race, or a single-family-house owner, or a television owner,'' said Margo Anderson, a professor of history at the University of Wisconsin and the author of ''The American Census: A Social History'' (Yale University Press). ''The categories become the language we use to talk about ourselves.''
This decade's biggest winners were the advocates for the disabled, who sought a comprehensive count of all who have difficulty taking care of themselves or getting where they need to go.
The 1980 census form asked two questions, about a person's ability to work and his or her access to transportation. The 1990 form eliminates the 1980 question on transportation and tries with a single, two-part question to measure the disabled, a group that annually receives $70 billion to $75 billion through more than 50 Federal programs.
As a result, ''our needs will be much, much better understood,'' said Frank Bowe, a professor of education at Hofstra University and a former executive director of the American Coalition of Citizens with Disabilities.
''For example,'' Dr. Bowe went on, ''we now have before the Congress the Americans With Disabilities Act,'' a sweeping piece of legislation extending civil rights protections. ''Once the numbers are published, it becomes much more evident why that act is very much needed.''
 
Pressure Is From Bureaucrats
The pressure that is brought to bear on the Census Bureau is less from politicians than from Federal bureaucrats who administer the programs that depend on census figures.
To cope with the pressure, the bureau has a system of Federal interagency councils, each screening questions in a given subject area like housing or population. That is one of the ways the bureau insulates itself against overt political lobbying.
These groups sift the proposals that have arisen in 65 public meetings, dozens of private meetings and correspondence from advocates like Dr. Bowe. They conduct several dry runs on small groups, locally and nationally. The content of the questionnaire is decided about a year before April 1. Then the bureau takes the heat.
Almost without fail, Census Bureau staff members say, the greatest controversy is generated by questions on race.
That category, once labeled ''color,'' has expanded dramatically since 1870, when Chinese-Americans were included, through 1980, when Vietnamese, Guamanians and Samoans were added.
In 1970, a separate question about ''Spanish'' origin was introduced, and has been refined over the last 20 years in an effort to capture accurately the characteristics of America's fastest-growing minority.
 
Asian-Americans in Focus
But it was Asian-Americans, another diverse and growing group, who were at the center of controversy in the development of the 1990 form.
Last year, in an effort to streamline the race question and make room for other inquiries on a form that, as a matter of policy, is not allowed to grow from one decade to the next, the Census Bureau tested a questionnaire that eliminated the individual categories under the heading ''Asian and Pacific Islander.'' It asked members of these groups to write in their ethnic group. There were heated reactions. Although Patricia A. Berman, the bureau's Assistant Division Chief for Content and Data Products, maintains that the groups on the 1980 questionnaire and small groups like Cambodians would have been tabulated separately, several Asian organizations generated significant Congressional heat over elimination of their categories. The streamlined approach was abandoned.
Ms. Berman said, speaking of a place on the form where race is marked: ''People were were saying, 'We're culturally and ethnically different. You've always had my circle on the questionnaire - now you're taking it away!' ''
 
Trouble Seen on Disability
It is Ms. Berman's job to turn the decisions of the various screening groups into the two forms. While gaining a place on the form is a sign of recognition and often a sign that Federal aid is in store, some people are not enthusiastic about their distinction. Dr. Bowe, for instance, says he expects a mixed reaction to the new question on disability.
''Some people will say, 'Yeah, great, someone finally recognizes folks like me are important and finally they are asking,' '' he said. ''Other people will say, 'Oh, God, I don't want anyone to know what is the matter with me.' There will be a large number who will deny disability - who will be embarrassed by it.''
For the first time, there will be questions about stepchildren. A related question has been refined to reflect more accurately the relationships between unmarried partnerships and other nontraditional household arrangements.
All proposed questions were screened by the Federal interagency councils over the past few years on criteria from usefulness to taste. Questions on controversial issues like AIDS and abortion are barred for fear of provoking anger and noncompliance.
Other questions are deemed irrelevant to the main purposes. Some proposals that did not make it to this year's form involved ownership of personal computers, VCR's and cable television subscriptions.
A question on the number of household pets generated a write-in campaign from veterinarians and pet food manufacturers.
They are expected to try again in 10 years.
''Inevitably, more people want to get into the census than want to get out,'' said Dr. Anderson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); FEDERAL PROGRAMS (52%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS CENSUS (95%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (76%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); HISTORY (70%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); WRITERS (65%); DISABLED ACCESS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (56%); VETERANS (54%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY



43 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 43, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: ALASKA FEARS LOSS IN PIPELINE INCOME

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Dec. 2

 BODY:
After battling the Exxon Corporation over the huge oil spill near Valdez last March, the State of Alaska is again fighting the petroleum industry, this time over repairs to a pipeline that transports a quarter of the crude oil produced in the United States.
The $8 billion Trans-Alaska Pipeline is only 12 years old, but already one section has corroded so badly that $200 million in repairs are needed, the pipeline operator said Friday.
To meet this and other repair costs, the operator wants to raise charges for carrying crude along the pipe, which in turn will reduce state royalties paid by the oil industry. 
The Alyeska Pipeline Service Company, the seven-member oil consortium that runs the 800-mile line from the Arctic Ocean to the port of Valdez, says rust-proofing tape has failed to protect the steel pipe that each day carries 80 million gallons of oil.
 
Miles May Be Replaced
''It appears that the coat process was not adequately quality-controlled,'' said an Alyeska spokesman, George Jurkowich. He said almost nine miles would have to be replaced.
Alaska's Attorney General, Doug Baily, said he had started an investigation to determine if poor maintenance was partly to blame for the damage, both internal and external, and the subsequent reduction in state oil royalties.
Mr. Jurkowich denied that mismanagement was to blame. He said the oil companies have made regular reports on rust over the years to the state and Federal authorities. ''It is normal that pipes buried in the permafrost, in water and earth, are subject to some form of corrosion,'' he said.
About 85 percent of the Alaskan government's revenue flows from royalties and taxes paid by the oil industry. The industry pays as a royalty the value of one-eighth of the 1.9 million barrels of oil that flow through the line daily. The value is based on the ''wellhead'' price, the sale price to refineries minus the cost of transporting it from the fields.
Mr. Baily has appointed lawyers, economists and accountants to review industry claims that repair costs are pushing up the price they are charged to transport their oil.
 
High Tariffs Requested
Oil companies, including British Petroleum and Exxon, which are the pipeline's main owners, are seeking Federal regulatory approval to raise tariffs in 1990 by an average of 86 cents, to $3.89 a barrel, for transporting oil through the line.
The state estimates that each dollar-a-barrel increase in the tariff costs the government $150 million a year, so the increases proposed by the pipeline operators would cost the state $130 million in lost annual revenue.
Mr. Baily, questioning the extent of the rust, said the state also needs to do its own damage assessment. ''I've always had an unwillingness to accept information from Alyeska at face value,'' he said.
In March, the tanker Exxon Valdez ran aground in Prince William Sound, spilling near 11 million gallons of oil and polluting more than 1,000 miles of shoreline.
The state battled all summer with Exxon over its cleanup operation and the environmental effect of the spill on the wilderness state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (94%); BP (NYSE) (58%); BP (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS486110 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF CRUDE OIL (70%); SIC4612 CRUDE PETROLEUM PIPELINES (70%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ARCTIC (73%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (98%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (94%); ALYESKA PIPELINE SERVICE CO (70%); BP PLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALYESKA PIPELINE SERVICE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALASKA

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TRANS-ALASKA PIPELINE SYSTEM; PIPELINES PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (89%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (89%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); OIL SPILLS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); LAWYERS (68%); APPROVALS (64%); BULK SHIPPING (58%); 



44 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 46, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: A Teahouse Links Japan And Virginia

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWPORT NEWS, Va.

 BODY:
A Japanese teahouse sits in a glade of pine and beech trees in this Navy town in southeastern Virginia, a few thousand miles from its native region of Kyoto.
Even though hardly anyone uses it for drinking tea, Gov. Gerald L. Baliles of Virginia has praised its value as a tool for international trade. Art professors and students admire its architectural simplicity. Local businessmen call it a kind of love letter to Japan from Virginia. 
''It says to the people from the Pacific Rim and to Japan in particular that Virginia is a good place to do business and, if you're going to establish an operation stateside, Virginia is the place to come,'' said Lloyd Noland, a retired businessman who had an electrical supply company here.
Along with Canon Virginia Inc. and Toshiba America Inc., Mr. Noland's company contributed a large part of the $400,000 that brought the teahouse to Newport News from the National Gallery of Art in Washington, where it was part of an exhibition of Japanese art and culture.
 
Not as Fragile as It Looks
The teahouse, 19 feet long by 13 feet wide by 17 feet high, is a replica of a 16th century building. It is an Ennan teahouse, so named because its wing-like roof is said to resemble the Ennan swallow. Its walls are made of cedar, its roof of dry vine and its windows of paper.
It looks fragile enough to be toppled in a slight wind, but the Japanese carpenters who assembled it in the summer on the campus of Christopher Newport College said that not even a hurricane could blow it down. When the edge of a hurricane reached here in September, it did no damage.
Inside one of its two main rooms, a modern tap provides water for the tea, but that is the single deviation from authentic decor. Utensils for the tea-serving ceremony are in an open cupboard.
In another room, bamboo mats cover the floor, and a paper lantern hangs from the ceiling. Otherwise, the structure has no ornament except a few sacred, but nondescript, stones near the entrance. Beginning in January, the college will sponsor six tea ceremonies and a local woman has asked to be married in it. But this year, tea has been served only once, when the teahouse opened.
 
Harmony Counteracting Turmoil
David Alexick, a professor of art at the college, says the teahouse seems incongruous, settled as it is among the thoroughly modern brick and concrete buildings. But its presence serves a worthy and necessary cause, he says: the promotion of things Japanese.
On a cool fall afternoon as pine needles wafted down, his class received a brief explanation of what the cedar walls, paper windows and bamboo signify to the Japanese.
The teahouse's harmonious lines reflect an affinity with nature. For centuries the Japanese have regarded those lines as a force to counteract turmoil. Warriors would remove their swords and helmets upon entering, sit down and drink tea together.
Newport News has the heaviest concentration of Japanese companies in Virginia, and their influx in the last four years made the customs, language and business of that country a top priority.
Last January, while touring an exhibition on feudal Japanese culture at the National Gallery of Art, Governor Balilies saw the teahouse and he spoke to the owners of the teahouse immediately about moving it to the Newport News area, a spokeswoman, Meredith Strohm, said.
Asahi Shimbun, a major Japanese newspaper, Nomura Securities Company and All Nippon Airways paid for putting up the building at the museum but had no plans for it after the show.
''It occurred to me that the Ennan teahouse should find a home in a part of America where history is remembered, where traditions are respected and where new knowledge is constantly sought,'' Mr. Balilies said at a luncheon in June.
 
A Two-Way Link to Japan
More than 100 people and companies quickly raised the money to take the teahouse apart, ship it to Christopher Newport College and have carpenters come from Japan to reassemble it in the glade. In 1987, the college had received $300,000 in state money to being an international education program, which includes a Japanese studies program.
Shin-ichiro Nagashima, the president of Canon Virginia, said the teahouse put a special seal on an already warm relationship between the people of the Tidewater region and the Japanese.
''There is a greater awareness in this community of understanding different cultures,'' Mr. Nagashima said. ''The teahouse symbolizes their interest in Japan.''
It also serves as a link between Japanese executives here and their homeland. Ichiro Hasegawa, an executive at Toshiba America, hesitantly admitted after a recent tour that even in Japan he had never ventured into a teahouse.
''Frankly, I found myself having a lack of knowledge about Japanese culture,'' Mr. Hasegawa said. ''This was my first time to visit any teahouse ever. The building was very curious to me.''
But the scenery around the teahouses lent it a familiar quality, he said.
''That area is very close to what we have in Japan, lots of pine trees and beeches,'' Mr. Hasegawa said. ''It doesn't look like America.''
It also has a practical value, in that Japanese investors who encounter a significant piece of their heritage are more attracted to the area, said Julius Denton, president of the Virginia Peninsula Economic Development Council. Business deals could even be initiated within its walls.
''You need everything you can get, because everyone else is doing the same thing,'' Mr. Denton said. ''The teahouse tells these people that once they break the ground, we don't forget them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA AMERICA INC (69%); CANON VIRGINIA INC (69%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (83%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (WASHINGTON, DC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIRGINIA; NEWPORT NEWS (VA); JAPAN

SUBJECT: TEAHOUSES; SHOWS (EXHIBITS); ART; CULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US EXHIBITIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEA (77%); PAINTING (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); 

PERSON: LLOYD U NOLAND III (70%); GERALD L BALILES (58%); 



45 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 86, Column 6; Society Desk

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Linda Bell Weds R. L. Blackburn

 BODY:
Linda Brantley Bell and Ronald Louis Blackburn were married yesterday by the Rev. George H. White at the Central Brick Presbyterian Church in East Orange, N.J. The bride is the daughter of Mrs. John Jordan and Edward Brantley Salaam, both of Roselle, N.J. Her husband is a son of Mr. and Mrs. Lemuel H. Blackburn of Ewing Township, N.J.
Mrs. Blackburn, a magna cum laude graduate of Princeton University, is a candidate for a doctorate in sociology at Rutgers University and a manager of information services in Piscataway, N.J., for the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Her husband, a graduate of Rider College with an M.B.A. degree from Fairleigh Dickinson University, is a regional sales manager for A.T.&T. in Liberty Corner, N.J. They are both visiting lecturers in the National Urban League's Black Executive Exchange Program. 
The bride's mother, Helen Jordan, retired as the credit union manager in Port Newark, N.J., for the Sea-Land shipping concern. The bride's father, also retired, was a metallurgist at the U.S. Metals Refinery Company in Carteret, N.J. Mr. Blackburn's mother, Louise Blackburn, retired as a claims adjuster for the State Unemployment Insurance Fund in Trenton. His father retired as a mail carrier in Princeton Junction, N.J.
The bride's previous marriage ended in divorce, as did her husband's.

GRAPHIC: Linda Blackburn (Ed Sancious)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (56%); FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (56%); FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (56%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (94%); MARRIAGE (78%); SALES MANAGEMENT (70%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (70%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); 

PERSON: BELL, LINDA (LINDA BLACKBURN); BLACKBURN, RONALD LOUIS JOHN F JORDAN JR (73%); 



46 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 95, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: 3 Organizations That Help Relieve New Yorkers in Pain, Visible or Invisible;
Assisting Henry I. In His Search for a Job

BYLINE: By DONNA A. SANTARSIERO; Executive Director, Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service

 BODY:
It was a year ago that the story of Henry I., a 27-year-old deaf man who is learning-disabled and successfully employed, was told. Until he began work at the H. B. Company in the East New York section of Brooklyn, he had never held a job very long.
Henry completed the job training program for disabled men and women at the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service. His success at the company was three years in the making, the result of training, counseling and job placement efforts by the Brooklyn Bureau. He started at the company in February 1987 on a two-week trial. 
I visited the company this past October to see Henry and the 13 other disabled men whom the Brooklyn Bureau trained for employment. We found them their jobs as well.
Henry uses American Sign Language. He showed me his work proudly, matching inventory members on boxes with the numbers on requisition forms. He stacks products on shelves for storage and loads some for delivery. With an expressive smile, he conveyed to me his happiness and satisfaction with his job and his newly found independence.
When Henry first came to the Brookyn Bureau, he didn't believe that he could ever work. He didn't believe anyone would ever hire him.
 
Destructive Conditions of Life
But how could Henry have known of the many people who believe that human beings whatever their circumstances can have a better life and believe that sharing to help those in need improves the way we all live. It is people who contribute generously to the New York Times Neediest Cases Fund who helped make Henry's new life possible.
To carry out the work of the Brooklyn Bureau, our social workers travel the streets of Brooklyn and see conditions of life that are destroying neighborhoods and families. But they also see the resilience and strength of the human spirit. We serve men and women who struggle to raise their families while living in poverty, families whose apartments are orderly in the midst of decay, crack houses and the skeletons of burned-out buildings, and mothers and fathers weary with fatigue after working all day who patiently help their children with homework.
We at the Brooklyn Bureau respond to their courage. Our mission is to work on many fronts to enable poor men, women and children to become economically and socially independent. This year we will help over 11,000 persons.
We serve thousands of children and their parents in our programs to prevent foster-care placement. Our social workers counsel men and women in the skills of parenthood, accompany them to government agencies and hospitals to solve immediate problems such as housing, government allowances or lack of medical care, and provide guidance in reaching vocational goals.
 
Training and Day Care
Our social workers are stationed in schools training teachers every day to recognize the indicators of abuse and showing them how to report cases that require child-protective investigations or removal of children from the home. And they visit families at home to strengthen the families' ability to handle the stresses of living in some of New York's most troubled communities. They help parents establish warm and nurturing relationship with their children.
Every day we provide job training and job placement services to 225 retarded and emotionally and physically disabled men and women, many of whom have never worked. And this year we will serve 1,400 children in day-care programs. Our purpose is to provide these very young children with positive experiences that will enable them to succeed when they enter school in the near future, while also enabling their parents to continue in gainful employment.
In response to the crisis of homelessness, we started this year two new programs. In the coming year, our staff will help over 1,000 homeless adults and children to move from the shelter system and stabilize themselves in permanent housing. We will be available to them 24 hours a day.
These are some people you have supported with your contribution to the New York Times Neediest Fund:
Many Helping Hands A young woman told our social worker that she was unable to control her anger and feared harming her two children. She was without money to buy food. We gave her food and money to pay for utilities. We worked with her to create a budget. We helped her find a decent apartment that she could afford and found a day-care program for her children. She is now in a job-training program. Our social worker has helped her relieve the stress she felt that resulted in anger toward her children.
We responded to a teacher feeling hopeless about how to teach a neglected, malnourished child. Our social worker visits his parents weekly and helps them to understand the importance of seeing that the child is well fed and clothed. We purchased winter clothes for the child. He is now much more alert and ready to learn.
For three weeks our job placement specialist accompanied a mentally retarded man, training him to travel between his home and the job she had found for him. And she shopped with him and bought the first work clothes he had ever owned.
A mother was hospitalized. Her sister could be with the children only at night. Our homemaker went to the home daily to feed and comfort the children, clean the home and help the children with their school work. When the mother returned from the hospital, the homemaker remained until the mother had the strength to manage the home.
For almost six months our homemaker bathed, dressed and fed a child with AIDS. Because the child's clothes were too big, she altered them to fit. Every day she gave him the affection he longed for. Our social worker has helped the homemaker as well as the family deal with the tragedy and grief of the child's illness.
Contributors to the New York Times Neediest Cases campaign not only make a difference in the lives of many poor people but also make a difference in the lives of all of us.
A contribution will be used only for direct service and financial assistance to the poor people we serve. Last year we distributed over $240,000 of New York Times Neediest Cases funds in direct emergency financial assistance to poor people we helped in all our programs.
I want you to know how grateful we are for your support and to wish you a very happy holiday season and a happy and healthy New Year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY SERVICE, BROOKLYN BUREAU OF

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (85%); DEAFNESS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); POOR POPULATION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: SANTARSIERO, DONNA A



47 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 95, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: 3 Organizations That Help Relieve New Yorkers in Pain, Visible or Invisible;
Best Minds Must Unite To Help a City in Need

BYLINE: By THOMAS A. DeSTEFANO; Executive Director, Catholic Charities,Brooklyn/Queens Diocese<

 BODY:
The men, women and children we serve are representative of a city in need. They have problems that challenge us beyond a one-time fix. They are a mosaic of human dignity. 
As the problems of human needs increase, we must be open to new and more effective approaches to their solution. This will require that the city's major institutions come together in an integrated approach to problem-solving. We must bring our best minds, our leaders, our decision makers from all institutions to plan together and solve together.
Stephen Berger, executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, talks about the city's institutions and their ''encrusted shell.'' In a recent study and survey of the changing patterns of contemporary family life, Catholic Charities of Brooklyn/Queens concluded, ''The challenge to our nation is toward the development of social policy and action in human service that will create caring communities, protect children, educate, serve and preserve family life at the neighborhood level.'' But for us to meet this challenge, all of us, individuals and institutions, must break out of our ''encrusted shells.''
Recently, we at Catholic Charities have taken steps to do that with a reorganization of our management and service-delivery structure. All systems are now better integrated so that we can provide the multiplicity of services required by most individuals and families who come to us for help. Medical or drug problems may be just one facet of a family's difficulties; they may be on the edge of eviction, facing homelessness due to unemployment and other economic problems.
Using a more integrated structure to deal with the overall problem, our caseworker can facilitate appropriate medical care, economic assistance, guidance and shelter until the family is back on its feet again and human dignity is restored.
In its conclusion, the Mayor's Commission for the 21st Century makes the following statement:
''In general the Commission emphasizes reorganization and reform, rather than additional resources. Poverty must be faced as the city's most serious pressing problem. To address poverty and dependency, education must have the highest priority; but human services must be reorganized.''
We see the need for this kind of reorganization and reform more vividly, perhaps, because we are committed to human services. All of our institutions must reflect these more structural and integrated steps to a ''New York Ascending,'' which is the title of the report on the year 2000. It is not the exclusive responsibility of our new Mayor, or the new Schools Chancellor or community boards; it is a responsibility all of us must share: government, schools, churches and the family.
The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund exemplifies all that is good, caring and decent about a great city in distress. Funds from the appeal help us, and other agencies, bring new hope to the neediest among us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATHOLIC CHARITIES

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND CHILDREN (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); MAYORS (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); 

PERSON: DESTEFANO, THOMAS A



48 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 40, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
A Conran's Without Price Tags? Hardly

BYLINE: By Paul Goldberger

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Does a city really need a museum with a permanent collection featuring 15 typewriters, 13 calculators, dozens of cameras, and glass showcases filled with telephones, dishes, glassware and stereo equipment? No, it doesn't, and visitors are to be excused if they think they have mistakenly stepped into the electronics and housewares departments of Harrods. But if the Design Museum, which opened last summer on the south bank of the Thames, has a bit too much of the air of a retail establishment, this hardly matters. For this museum, temple to consumer objects though it is, has turned out to be one of the more exhilarating small cultural facilities in London.
The museum was created by the Conran Foundation, a charitable organization founded in 1981 by Sir Terence Conran, the architect who became rich selling well-designed household objects on a mass scale. It replaces the Boilerhouse, a Conran-sponsored design gallery that existed for four years within the Victoria and Albert Museum. The new Design Museum, like the Boilerhouse, presents temporary exhibitions, but the main event now is the permanent collection, a set of 20th-century objects to rival the holdings of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. 
In fact, while the collection of this new institution is not as deep as that of the Modern, the design of its galleries, by the British firm of Stanton & Williams, makes visiting it much more pleasurable. The permanent collection is displayed on the top floor of the three-story museum, in a sprawling room with huge windows overlooking the Thames. This gallery, like the building itself, is a classic modern space: simple white walls, light-colored wooden floor, glass showcases, plenty of natural light. It is big, clean and crisp, and unlike most modern designs these days, wonderfully un-self-conscious. The harshness and anger that emanate from so much modern design in Britain are nowhere present here; this building is more American, more like Richard Meier, a vision of modernism as sensual and benign. It makes you believe, if only for one fleeting moment, that modernism really is the only way.
It is not that the building, designed by the architect Stuart Moscrop of Terence Conran's firm of Conran Roche, is so remarkable. It is not. But Britain has precious few modern buildings that have any degree of amiability at all. Most modern buildings in this country look as if they were designed mainly to inspire people to join Prince Charles's crusade against modern architecture. This one, though, stands as a refreshing antidote to the ever more insistent debate surrounding the Prince's views: its modesty of scale, its mix of sharpness and gentleness, come into the heated battle over traditional versus modern architecture in Britain like a breath of cool air.
The building is part of a larger development project on the south bank called Butler's Wharf, slightly east of Tower Bridge and the Tower of London. Butler's Wharf is itself part of Docklands, the vast region of warehouses and industrial buildings that have lain fallow since London's shipping industry faded away; many of the brick warehouses are now being converted into apartments and offices, and there are the faint beginnings of a real neighborhood here. (At the moment the area around the museum is so filled with construction that the building is nearly impossible to reach by car, and visitors are better off traveling by subway to Tower Bridge and walking along the splendid riverfront esplanade that is one of the best aspects of this portion of the Docklands redevelopment.) Back to the museum. It would be unfair to describe the permanent collection as merely a set of consumer objects; there are also the requisite Breuer and Rietveld and Aalto chairs, and several automobiles, including a Citroen 2CV, the magnificent, simple, inexpensive car that was produced in France for what seemed like generations.
The Citroen 2CV stands as a kind of symbol of the museum's priorities: while the founding director, Stephen Bayley, and Mr. Conran did not exclude high art, they were clearly most interested in acquiring and celebrating those objects that have brought high design quality to the mass market. (By contrast, the car that stands as a symbolic presence in the Museum of Modern Art's design galleries is a Cistalia, a rare and expensive European sports car.) The curatorial bias here does parallel the stance of Mr. Conran's stores, which emphasize quality design in the broad marketplace, and the philosophical similarity between the stores and the museum may be too close for some visitors.
But the Design Museum is hardly a Conran's shop without price tags. Not only is there the rich array of older handsome and well-chosen objects, there are also numerous rare and special things here. Among the best: a full-size wooden model of a car designed by Le Corbusier and a full-scale model of a 1922 design by Werner Graeff for a De Stijl motorbike that is an utterly stunning folly. It is a welcome reminder that the museum's concern is not solely in the realm of the design of consumer products for the mass market.
The main gallery also contains an altogether splendid participatory computer game by which visitors can attempt to play industrial designer. An elaborate computer program allows six visitors at a time to use the computer to design a toothbrush, which is then evaluated for its practicality and economic viability in the marketplace. The game is marvelous fun, and a superb introduction both to the profession of industrial design and to the role of the computer as a design tool.
One floor below the permanent collection gallery is a room called the Review, where objects new to the marketplace or prototypes that have impressed the museum's curators are shown. Not long ago the Review room contained, among other objects, a Toshiba laptop computer, a Porsche washing machine, Philippe Starck's chairs for the Royalton Hotel in New York, and a truly marvelous art object, the Vodol Chair, a deviously witty ''deconstruction'' of Le Corbusier's classic Gran Confort chair.
There is also a large gallery for changing, thematic exhibitions, called the Boilerhouse in honor of its predecessor at the Victoria and Albert. Through Jan. 31 the Boilerhouse will house ''French Design 1960-1990,'' a show mounted originally at the Centre Pompidou in Paris. Designed by Philippe Starck and Philippe Delis, the exhibition is hopelessly cute, and renders trivial even the best objects it contains. Mr. Starck and Mr. Delis mounted each of the 150 objects in the show on an identical pedestal of unfinished wood, under a clear plastic cover. Everything in this exhibition, from an airplane to a chair, is therefore rendered at exactly the same size, a gimmick the organizers believed would give every object ''equal physical and historical significance,'' according to the wall text. It does indeed make all the objects the same - the problem is that all these models come off as playthings rather than real objects, and the only strong impression the exhibition leaves is of Mr. Starck and Mr. Delis's rigid Cartesian grid of wooden pedestals, marching relentlessly across the gallery. These trendy vitrines are the real consumerist offense here; they look like displays designed to promote French design in an airport concourse, and beside them the Design Museum's permanent collection feels like the National Gallery.

GRAPHIC: Part of the study collection on the top floor of the Design Museum, overlooking the Thames (Jonathan Player)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: DESIGN MUSEUM (LONDON)

SUBJECT: DESIGN MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); BRITISH ROYALTY (70%); CHARITIES (69%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL PRINCE CHARLES (50%); 



49 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 3, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: TV'S BLACK WORLD;
Reality for Some

 BODY:
To the Editor:
According to Henry Louis Gates Jr., black television characters who are competent professionals, loving parents and hard-working college students are acting ''just like white people.'' If I didn't know Mr. Gates is black, I would have guessed him to be an unrepentant bigot who had never met a black person in his life.
No situation comedy can accurately depict every American's vision of reality in a half hour of television programming. What NBC's ''Cosby Show'' and ''A Different World'' do accomplish is a stylish and humorous presentation of slices of the contemporary black American experience with a message for Americans of all ages (and white South Africans, if necessary). 
Like the producer-director of ''A Different World,'' Debbie Allen, my roommate and I are products of Washington's Howard University. There we met black students of various colors, classes and capabilities from across the nation and around the globe. For us and the increasing number of young blacks choosing to attend historically black colleges and universities, no other television show comes close to depicting our reality. The show has tackled such important themes as date rape, alcoholism, poverty and single parenthood, always within the context of the unique nuances and values of black American culture.
If television shows depicting ambitious and successful blacks prompt some to blame members of the so-called underclass for their woes, it is not the fault of the creative forces behind them. Instead, we should cast a more critical eye toward political leaders and policy makers who promote stereotypes and bigotry and whose economic strategies deprive millions of the opportunity to improve their lives.
Against the odds, millions of blacks, my parents among them, have succeeded in reaping some of the benefits of economic success in this racist country. Don't they deserve to have a television show that reflects their life style and experience?
 
SABIYHA GRAHAM
Bronx, N. Y.
 
 Henry Louis Gates Jr. replies:
A joke told in Moscow during the recent food shortages: Is it true you can now order a steak over the telephone? Certainly . . . and it will arrive over the television. Reflecting on the hopes (and fears) that blacks have pinned to their televised images, I had a similar point to make about the kind of sustenance this medium can be expected to provide.
As Dr. Poussaint noted, my article focused on a contemporary phenomenon - the proliferation of highly successful black sitcoms on prime time, represented by ''The Cosby Show,'' its spin-offs and competitors. I suggested (and several correspondents evidently agree) that the sitcom is a particularly unlikely genre to look to for social realism. Are the white characters any less stereotyped than the black ones? Of course not. Historically, though, minorities have had a highly anxious relation to their public images. Imagine a white audience fretting about whether Pee-Wee Herman was embarrassing the race.
The basic point is that ''Amos 'n' Andy'' didn't enslave us; and ''Cosby'' will not free us. Which is hardly Cosby's fault. It is no reproach, then, to observe that America's favorite black family, the Huxtables, are in most respects ''just like white people.'' It's simply a fact about the precedence of class over ethnic identification - and thus about the cultural distances American viewers are asked to traverse. (That much we can say, I think, without recourse to the specious euphemism of ''universality,'' a property that now appears to be indexed to the Nielsen ratings.) In short, Mr. Cosby and Mr. Poussaint have nothing to apologize for.
Inevitably, though, some will persist in finding ironic the discrepancy between these images of affluence and the bleak statistical realities. Black America, your long-awaited dream of equality and prosperity has now arrived . . . over the television.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BLACKS (IN US) TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); 

PERSON: GRAHAM, SABIYHA; GATES, HENRY LOUIS JR SIR GEORGE YOUNG (55%); 



50 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1, Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 3234 words

HEADLINE: Notes From a Prompter's Box On Making Opera Sing

BYLINE: By WILL CRUTCHFIELD; Will Crutchfield, a former music critic for The Times, teaches singing in Manhattan.

 BODY:
What if opera in New York so blossomed in the 1990's that only a curmudgeon would dream of griping about the Met; that the highlights of each season would truly be the talk of the town; that opera lovers would congratulate themselves on the good luck of being around for a golden age?
This is not utterly implausible, drastically as it may contrast with the tone of most operatic discussion today. There have been times when New York's operaphiles and opera houses lived in close harmony, and when the status of local operatic achievement was a matter of unquestioned civic pride. The parallel decade in the last century comes quickly to mind, but the period 1955 to 1965 wasn't half bad either, when you think about it. And there are good things going on in the world of opera today, buffeted as it may be in some respects. Why aren't more of them happening in New York, and how might they? That is a question worth asking in the last month of the 1980's, at a time of transition in the leadership of both our main companies. Hugh Southern is in his first season as general manager of the Met, and Christopher Keene has just inaugurated his administration of the City Opera with a series of promising proposals. 
One has to begin with a look at the current situation - not the standard list of problems (singer shortage, jet circuit and so on) but the intangibles that define a night's experience in the theater. To put it as simply as possible: Beyond Lincoln Center, I have seen more than a few performances that exceeded the sum of their parts and that gave genuine satisfaction even when faults could easily be identified. In adventurous St. Louis and conservative Washington, in the lively European shows imported at the Brooklyn Academy of Music (the next one due, in March, ''La Finta Giardiniera'' from Brussels), and elsewhere, some kind of esprit de corps has at least occasionally made performances mean more than they usually do at home. At the Met and the City Opera, most performances have added up to less than the sum of their parts. Verve, concentration, coherence, intelligence of approach and the excitement of joint effort in a great purpose have proved harder to find than sopranos and tenors.
Operatic New York has been through a crisis of managerial will and taste. Since 1972 the Met has had a series of general managers (Schuyler Chapin, Anthony Bliss and Bruce Crawford) who seem to have lacked passionate convictions about repertory, production style, musical quality, identity of the house in artistic terms. Some of them had views on those things, but that is not quite the same. And while James Levine has built the world's finest opera orchestra, he has not established a process that produces performances consistent with the level of his own gifts.
At the City Opera, Beverly Sills, general director from 1979 to 1989, was an effective fund-raiser and spokesman, but she did not recapture the company's flagging flair in presentation of the unusual, and her taste cannot entirely be exculpated from responsibility for the company's tendency to drift toward comfortable mediocrity in almost every aspect of programming and performance.
Of course there have been successes. I consider the Met's ''Ring'' cycle to be one, although that is not a widely shared opinion. Carlos Kleiber's too-brief visits (most recently for ''La Traviata'') have shown that Mr. Levine is not the only conductor who can make special music with the orchestra. ''Cendrillon'' and (with the right cast) ''The Mikado'' have been delightful at the City Opera. This list could be extended, but not very far. Barring individual triumphs from opera's aging and shrinking group of great singers, the best generally has been just respectable routine, and the worst has been the kind of performance that sends one home feeling that opera is dead even if you can find the sopranos and tenors.
Something very different is needed from management.- fewer and better-rehearsed operas, important repertory, a schedule of commissions - are, in my view, right on the mark. The test for him and for Mr. Southern will be whether they have a strong individual sense of what is really good work, and a willingness to intervene in its behalf. An enlightened manager is personally capable of recognizing mediocrity, poor taste and slovenliness and considers them insufferable; can engage in purposeful artistic discussion with leading artists, even (or especially) at moments of high tension in the rehearsal process; accommodates institutional pressures and makeshift solutions as a passionately contested last resort, not a comfortable calling.
Is this utopian? Only if one requires that the manager be infallible in all these things. My hope is for fallible leaders who have the wherewithal to aspire to that kind of role; the aspiration would make a world of difference. Here, in broad terms (ignoring some trees in an effort to see the forest), are some of the things such management would need to care about in a new way. The list reflects end-of-century conditions: not necessarily what made opera work in times past, but what seems to make it work best today.
 
The Question Of Preparation
 How an opera is put together musically is almost as important as who is cast in it. How long the participants live with one another in the company of the work, what kind of guidance is exercised and by whom - these are crucial factors; they cannot guarantee cohesiveness, but if the potential is there, they can foster it. Riccardo Muti had it right when he said ''the performance is created in the piano rehearsals.'' In our repertory houses the preparation is often in the hands of a coach or team of coaches, with the conductor joining the proceedings at a late point (as little as 10 days before the opening in some cases), and casts changing during a run.
It doesn't work. The coaches cannot substitute for the conductor in forming a musical partnership with the singers, in working out problems as they arise, in inspiring the ensemble and arriving at a living concept of the piece. When the maestro eventually appears, the opera is essentially shaped; if something major needs changing, from his point of view or the cast's, the choice is between tackling it too late and forcing it, or letting it ride. A few individual sessions at the beginning of rehearsals are not enough (and often even these are lacking); the team must be a team from the start.
This almost never happens at the Met. Mr. Levine spreads himself too thin, often with four of his operas being rehearsed or performed at a time (not to mention his ambitious outside projects), and visiting conductors facing a long run of widely spaced performances are rarely willing to give the Met an extensive rehearsal period beforehand. Small wonder so many performances are musically neutral. The City Opera has been similarly troubled and has had a still weaker roster of conductors - but Mr. Keene's announcement of closely spaced runs could presage a dramatic improvement.
 
The Importance Of Good Direction
The second great need is for responsibility in stage direction. Staging has been largely deplorable in both houses through the 80's, from the gaudy Franco Zeffirelli overproductions that affront good taste at the Met to the relentless middlebrow tackiness of comic opera across the plaza. It is hardly a question of traditional versus radical stagings; the great missing element at both houses is Personenregie. This is the German term for direction of actors and characters (as opposed to formulation of broad scenic and dramaturgical concepts). The productions that are failing in New York -and most are, artistically if not at the box office - are failing not because they are traditional but because they are poorly directed.
The main things opera needs from a director are care for the emotional truth of each moment; the discernment to arrive at a persuasive vision of that truth and the taste not to cheapen it for superficial responses; the imagination, patience and resourcefulness to work on each moment until it is right. And some understanding of music and singing. One director who fills this description and has worked in a ''traditional'' way (keeping the period and plot and other elements intact) is Giorgio Strehler, whose Scala productions of Mozart and Verdi are celebrated. Another who fills it and does antitraditional reworkings is the much-discussed Peter Sellars. Neither has ever directed an opera in New York City; this is typical.
There are few enough directors of real ability who see this kind of nuts and bolts work as their calling; no field is fuller of charlatans, pretentious amateurs, hacks (competent or otherwise) and self-aggrandizing showmen. Management should know the difference.
 
Ways to Obtain Better Singing
 The complaint one hears most often is about the poor level of singing, but some better singers could be engaged - and just as importantly, better work could be got out of the singers already engaged - by a company that articulated to itself a higher standard of respect for singing through its musical preparation and performance style.
What if, for instance, there were general agreement not to engage any singer with an ugly voice or a wobbling one, no matter how powerful? What if any inconveniences created by this policy had to be resolved by adjusting other elements?
This would cut in different directions at the two houses. The Met would have to face up to the fact that its magnificent orchestra is often simply too loud. Although the Met's music director is, at his best, an opera conductor with only one or two peers and no betters today, a comparison of his broadcasts with those of earlier decades speaks irrefutably: not about the balance per se, but about the level of sheer strain on stage. The effect on performance is profound.
The City Opera's problem is harder to address because the acoustics of the State Theater are such that only an exceptionally large and well-produced voice can seem powerful there, and such voices quickly become too expensive. To make matters worse, it is difficult to hear the orchestra from the stage when it plays softly (monitors are employed to pipe sound from the pit to the singers). This is a serious situation: The kind of company Mr. Keene seems to want and the theater in which it plays may be in irresolvable contradiction.
 
Should Revivals Take a Back Seat?
 New York's opera season, like most throughout the world today, is oriented around new productions, when new operas are introduced, or - far more often - when new scenery, costumes and blocking plans are bestowed on already familiar operas. The latter was of little moment until recent decades (Covent Garden's first ''Boheme'' sets were used from the 1890's to the 1960's; the Met's lasted almost as long; today, a 30-year-old production is ancient, and few make it that far).
The problem is that everything that is not a new production becomes a second-class citizen. The working assumption is that once the production is ''set'' in its opening run, reviving it is more or less a logistical task. Singers are permitted to arrive later; cast changes run rampant; conductors (often of little stature) are given less rehearsal time; an assistant director with a prompt-book and close to zero moral authority arranges stage traffic.
This is disastrous, and the limp, sterile results are on regular display. Except physically (the sets and, to an extent, blocking), a production has no continuing existence. Real action - character action - exists only to the extent that it is real and right in the moment it is happening. And this is what makes or breaks an opera dramatically. A revival needs the same caliber of creative energy, and the same kind of team effort, as any opera at any time. It gets nowhere near that here; even the best productions (for instance John Dexter's ''Dialogues of the Carmelites'') sag.
Can this be remedied within the repertory system that requires the curtain to go up seven times a week, with four or five operas juggled at once?
In the stagione system of planning, each opera can be taken up separately, with the full spirit of the house behind it, and given a run of closely spaced performances. There was a time when repertory and stagione were viable alternatives, but that was when opera houses had stable rosters that worked together over a whole season and when shared assumptions on both sides of the footlights made detailed stage rehearsal needless. Today, everyone realizes that something like stagione planning is necessary; the repertory houses simply cram it into the schedule as best they can. At the Met this takes the tone of formidable, faceless corporate efficiency in operatic mass production; at the City Opera there has been something of that element, but also something of the hectic improvised bargaining of a bazaar.
So why not abandon the repertory system? Because the companies have painted themselves into an economic corner: To go to the two to four performances a week that are usual in Chicago, Milan and London, our houses would either have to maintain salaries despite huge loss of revenue, or face bloody confrontations with their unions. Real leadership for management and labor both will mean laying the groundwork for evolutionary change: toward fewer performances in the quickest and most equitable way possible. Present schedules are simply unsustainable if artistic quality is in question.
Such an effort would have to be gradual, but even as it began, the ideal kept in distant view could fuel improvements in the present.Mr. Keene's plan - six performances a week but only two operas - is a great step forward. The Met still juggles four or five, but that is fewer than it used to do. Further reduction (especially in midseason) and closer spacing of the performances of a given opera would help make the total run manageable for visitors; never mind if this requires shaking up the broadcast schedule and subscription schemes.
 
How to Encourage New Productions
 The repertory system also discourages the production of new operas or of difficult and unfamiliar old ones. With the Met's untenable position that only an average capacity over 90 percent will do, and with the perceived necessity of ameliorating the cost of a new production over revivals, a new piece would have to be a masterwork to avoid being a failure. And since token novelties rub shoulders only with masterworks, not with a decent allotment of other new operas, any failures will be glaring.
But here, too, attitude is the most important thing. There are opera houses that give premieres happily (Houston and Santa Fe, for two - and Chicago has announced a bold program leading into the 21st century). They assume that their public is intelligent enough to understand that masterpieces cannot be guaranteed in advance; the public, or a decent part of it, returns the compliment by paying good money for a chance to watch an experiment. When a company puts on a modern work while holding its nose, clearly communicating that duty, not passion, is being pursued, that work is at death's door. When the house is really behind a piece - when management knows the opera and follows rehearsals eagerly, when the composer and performers can feel in the air and hear in the corridors how seriously their efforts are taken - then possibilities blossom. By no means do the progressive houses succeed with each new work, or even a majority: but they have a fighting chance, and are that much healthier because the fight is being fought.
This, of course, requires a manager who likes the idea of flying around watching new operas, who looks not for what he thinks he can get his audience to tolerate, but what he thinks he can sell with missionary fervor. This has been a traditional City Opera role that has faltered in the 80's; ostensibly innovative repertory was duly introduced, but with spotty and half-hearted results. Mr. Keene will have to do better.
There is another major question: Should New York in the 90's and beyond entrust opera solely to the Lincoln Center companies?
The alternatives have historically been of two kinds. Well-meaning shoestring operations do a service for amateur performers, aspiring youngsters and buffs curious to hear a little-known work even in sketchy form. And brief tour appearances by important European companies (the Finnish National, English National, Bolshoi, Paris and Scala operas, in the last quarter century), make important moments in New York operatic life. Neither of these, of course, can sustain the season in a great city with a large opera public.
There remains an unfilled need for high-level, philanthropically funded opera in a house of 1,200 seats or less. In the meantime, the Brooklyn Academy's Opera Project (directed by Matthew Epstein under BAM's president, Harvey Lichtenstein) is begining to provide a much-needed stimulus.
''Falstaff,'' a Welsh National Opera production directed by Peter Stein, was a good example of a highly focused ''traditional'' performance that transcended its components. None of the voices was of Met caliber (and yes, this matters); still, something happened. And then there was Lully's ''Atys,'' a production musically innovative and stunning, theatrically vivid without being either ''period'' or ''avant-garde.'' It was the result of one man's (William Christie's) personal conviction about the work and his ability to form an ensemble apt to it: the power of creative leadership and intensive musical preparation. A manager of vision is drawn to such a project like a magnet.) Here is an optimist's view of New York opera in the 90's. The Met, fired by a new sense of mission, makes dramatic improvements in its conducting and directing rosters; redefines rehearsal periods; works its way down to five performances a week by 1997; turns its back firmly on mindless gigantism but exploits its scenic resources imaginatively; combines canny fiscal micromanagement with seigneurial disdain for conventional wisdom about what will sell; represents conservative opera in its best sense, honoring precious traditions through loving, thoughtful renewal. The City Opera leaves Lincoln Center and becomes home base for America's best innovative designers, directors and composers; every new production is a hot ticket. Singers in both houses make more music and less noise. It becomes un-chic to grasp at trendy talk-show stardom. BAM keeps us all on our toes with the most interesting European work. A new company (or a mini-Met) creates a fresh New York tradition of intimate opera, led by a music director interested in the advances of early-instrument playing and fresh historical approaches to performance.
Here is a worst case: Met management decides that Disneyland is a perfectly good artistic exemplar; philistinism reigns and full houses are cited as proof that taste is bunk. City Opera, devastated by dwindling support and a protracted strike in 1995, closes its doors. Financing problems curtail the BAM initiative, and opera recedes ever more decisively from the leading cultural role it once played.
The reality will lie somewhere in between. But just think how much brisker and fresher the air will feel if everyone pulls together to get close to the first alternative.

GRAPHIC: A scene from the Franco Zeffirelli production of ''La Traviata'' at the Met (Winnie Klotz); a Brussels production of Mozart's ''Finta Giardiniera'' (O. Herrman) (pg. 1); a scene from the City Opera's delightful production of ''Cendrillon'' (Swope Associates/Susan Clark); a scene from ''Das Rheingold'' in the Metropolitan's ''Ring'' (NYT/Fred R. Conrad); Christopher Keene; James Levine (Michael O'Neill) (pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); BELGIUM (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA; NEW YORK CITY OPERA

SUBJECT: OPERA OPERA (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); THEATER (69%); 

PERSON: CRUTCHFIELD, WILL; KEENE, CHRISTOPHER; SOUTHERN, HUGH CHRISTOPHER KEENE (67%); 



51 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1928 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: TOUGH TALK FROM TOKYO;
What to Do When Japan Says 'No'

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE SUMMER; Lawrence Summer is Nathaniel Ropes professor of political economy at Harvard University.

 BODY:
Dear Mr. Morita and Mr. Ishihara:
Most American economists, myself included, reflexively oppose any sort of policy proposal that interferes with free domestic and international markets. Your new book, ''The Japan That Can Say 'No','' shakes my faith, and will, I am convinced, shake the faith of many others as soon as they get hold of their bootlegged copy.
As with pornography, your unwillingness to permit your book to be marketed in the United States has only served to increase the demand for it. It will become more and more influential with the passage of time, for it performs an important educational function by demonstrating that if war is too important to leave to generals, international trade and economic policies are too important to leave to the lawyers and economists.
You both make it clear that Japan's strategy has not been one of maximizing the consumer's gains from trade. Policy makers in Japan do not regard keeping the prices of imports low to consumers as an important priority. Instead, economically, financially and technologically, Japan has tried - and succeeded in - converting the Japanese-American relationship from one of Japanese dependence to one of mutual dependence. You make it all too clear that the risk, from an American viewpoint, is that before too long, the United States will depend heavily on Japan, but it will not be mutual. 
Given your respective roles as a major Japanese industrialist and a prominent politician - perhaps the Lee Iacocca and Richard Gephardt of Japan - you must expect that your words will be taken as a serious reflection of Japanese attitudes.
Mr. Morita's analysis of American problems points in the right direction and is not as overblown as we would like to think. His asserts that ''We are focusing on business 10 years in advance, while you [the United States] seem to be concerned with profits 10 minutes from now. At that rate, you may never be able to compete with us.'' And he is supported by the record. Last year, Japan, with half our population, invested more heavily in plant and equipment than did the United States.
 
Pearl Harbor
 Mr. Ishihara's message is much less familiar and more disturbing. When prominent Japanese politicians seem to be spoiling for a fight with the United States, one can hardly expect that they will not get one. Professing to truly respect Minoru Genda, the planner of the Pearl Harbor attack, and quoting approvingly his view - ''Japan will be all right. It is able to defend itself. Japan's technology can be the basis for Japan's defense'' - is not the way to reassure Americans about Japan's intentions.
Nor is your own geopolitical assessment about the United States very reassuring. You write: ''No matter how much they continue military expansion, if Japan stopped selling them chips, there would be nothing more they could do.'' And you observe: ''If, for example, Japan sold chips to the Soviet Union and stopped selling them to the United States, this would upset the entire military balance.'' This means that Japan has leverage. You continue: ''Japan's technology has advanced so much, that Americans get hysterical - an indication of the tremendous value of that card, perhaps our ace. My frustration stems from the fact that Japan has not utilized that card in the arena of international relations.''
This is not to say that you are factually wrong. The Pentagon's Defense Science Board in 1987 concluded that ''U.S. military forces depend heavily on technological superiority to win. Electronics is the technology that can be leveraged most highly. Semiconductors are the key to leadership in electronics. U.S. defense will soon depend on foreign sources for state-of-the-art technology in semiconductors. This is an unacceptable situation.''
Besides the technological leverage you stress, there is also the question of financial power. So far the Japanese have used their financial power to stabilize the United States and world economies. At the insistence of the Japanese Ministry of Finance, Japanese insurance companies and other financial institutions lost tens of billions of dollars trying to stabilize the dollar's decline in 1986 and 1987. These losses represent a larger outlay than all of America's postwar assistance to Japan, even after allowing for price inflation.
 
A Dollar Free Fall
 But they may not always be so generous, particularly if confronted by American policies they do not like. If Japanese investors were to stop rolling over their investments in Treasury bills and certificates of deposit, the dollar would go into free fall, and America's financial institutions would be seriously threatened. Japanese deposits in many major American banks now exceed the value of those banks' capital. In such a situation, the Federal Reserve would have its hands tied. Providing liquidity would send the dollar through the floor, but protecting the dollar by raising interest rates would risk massive bank failures.
As you are at pains to point out, while American dependence on Japan may be increasing, Japanese dependence on the United States is declining. As the Soviet Union crumbles, and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev cozies up, the American security umbrella means less and less to Japan.
Japan may have needed the American market in the past, but the booming economies of Asia will provide an important outlet for Japanese capital in coming years. Already, Japanese Government research centers have formulated plans for an ''Asian Brain'' operating out of Tokyo that would control the disposition of investment throughout Japan, and in the industrializing countries of Asia.
You also raise the ominous possibility of major Japanese involvement in the Soviet Union or China. Japanese businessmen are said to have been the first out of China after last spring's uprising and to have been the first back in. Mr. Gorbachev desperately needs hard currency to make his reforms work. What better way to get it than by giving a few islands back to Japan and inviting them to develop Siberia's vast resource pools? An economic alliance with the Soviet Union would also reduce Japan's dependence on Western raw materials.
Your book makes it very clear that when it comes to Japan, the United States now faces the dilemma of using or losing its economic leverage. There are omnious signs already. When American officials have sought to impose sanctions on Japan in recent years, as in the aftermath of Toshiba's illegal sales to the Russians, they had to face opposition from hundreds of American companies that protested that a cutoff of Japanese components would put them out of business. I hope as awareness of your book spreads, the United States will take the steps necessary to counter the threats you issue.
First, we must start investing in America. You are right to insist that America's competitive problems are of its own - not Japanese - making. As long as the United States consumes, publicly and privately, more than 97 cents out of every dollar it earns, Americans will not be able to make the physical investments necessary to make American producers competitive again. But the physical capital gap is less important than the human capital gap. Because of their longer school day and school year, the average Japanese 18-year-old has spent more time studying than the average American M.B.A.
Second, the United States needs to think seriously about the strategic implications of the composition of American production. No major corporation buys key components by searching for the lowest price at each moment without regard to issues of the security and continuity of supply. No major economy should either. When American purchasers of high-technology items shift to foreign sources, they impose a cost on the rest of the economy by increasing our vulnerability. There is little to be said for a laissez-faire attitude toward industries upon which our future security depends. Americans should be debating not whether, but how to restore their preeminence in the ''ace card'' semiconductor industry.
We economists have a congenital weak spot here. Just before the OPEC cartel became effective in the late 1960's and early 1970's, economists were urging that oil import quotas be abolished to help consumers, because dependence on foreign oil could not pose a serious threat to American security, since a cartel could never form. Those who resist efforts to maintain a viable semiconductor industry should remember that sorry episode. No one knows whether Sematech will work out. There certainly is a risk that the Government will have wasted its money. But this risk is small compared with the risk posed by America's dependence on a supplier of vital military parts whose leaders openly threaten a cutoff.
Third, the United States needs to carefully consider its approach to the newly industrialized economies of Asia. They are natural allies for the United States. They do not welcome suggestions like Mr. Ishihara's observation that ''those Asian nations where the economy has been a success story, such as Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore, were all, at one time or another, under Japanese administration. We are aware that some negative things happened under the Japanese administration, but it cannot be denied that many positive changes were left behind.''
 
Bargain for Results
 But our current Grenada-style trade policy of lashing out at small Asian nations for the sins of Japan is well calculated to drive them into the arms of the Japanese. Rather than condemning these countries' trade surpluses, the United States should applaud the successful development strategies that have made them possible and urge the developing nations of Latin America, Eastern Europe and Africa to follow their example. We should seek to draw these developing countries closer to us.
Fourth, Japanese mercantilism should be aggressively confronted. The Structural Impediments Initiative should be abandoned forthwith. We have far more urgent priorities than getting Japanese stores to open on Sundays or bringing shopping malls to Japan. And our negotiators must have better things to do with their time than listening to Japanese lectures about what is wrong with America's business culture.
The United States learned a lesson in dealing with civil rights. Only when policy shifted to a results-based standard, in which companies were presumed to have discriminated if they did not achieve certain hiring goals, did it start to have real effects. The same logic suggests that we should lead a worldwide effort to establish goals for Japanese imports of manufactured goods. If these goals are not met, we should find ways of retaliating that would harm Japanese commercial interests without hurting American consumers. For example, before imposing new restrictions on Japanese imports, we could convert existing restrictions from quotas to tariffs so that the Treasury captures the rents now enjoyed by American producers without producing shortages. Alternatively, we should insist on a renegotiation of current tax rules that give Japanese investors in the United States a free ride.
I do not know what motivated you to write ''The Japan That Can Say No,'' but I am glad you did. You have helped remind an excessively complacent economics profession that some things like national security are more important than good jobs at good wages. And I suspect your America bashing may have made a stronger case for a new American policy toward Japan than any American ever could.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: ETHICS RESOURCE CENTER (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (76%); WORLD WAR II (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); 

PERSON: SUMMER, LAWRENCE (PROF); MORITA, AKIO; ISHIHARA, SHINTARO RICHARD A GEPHARDT (54%); LIDO ANTHONY 'LEE' IACOCCA (54%); 



52 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: WEEK IN BUSINESS;
Shearson May Sell Stake to Outsiders

BYLINE: By WILLIAM S. NIEDERKORN

 BODY:
Raising capital was on the agenda last week at two top securities firms. An outside investor became a possibility at Shearson Lehman Hutton. Under the proposal, American Express, which owns 62 percent of Shearson, would sell some of its shares. Wall Street sources said seven potential bidders have expressed interest in buying a large percentage of Shearson's stock. ''We are deeply into developing a plan that we hope will answer the questions of the rating agencies,'' Peter A. Cohen, the Shearson chief executive, said. Also, Drexel Burnham Lambert will require its best-paid employees to take a portion of their year-end bonuses in Drexel stock rather than cash. The firm's commercial paper was downgraded by Standard & Poor's.
 
*
 The head of Deutsche Bank A.G. was killed Thursday when terrorists detonated a remote-control bomb, demolishing the automobile in which he was being driven to work. Alfred Herrhausen, 59 years old, died instantly and his driver was seriously wounded in the blast, which occurred in Bad Homburg, a fashionable suburb of Frankfurt. 
 
*
 The Soviet Union and the European Community agreed on a 10-year trade pact that would ease quotas for Soviet goods and increase technical cooperation. Separately, a Soviet enterprise that makes jet fighters has teamed up with Gulfstream to try to build a supersonic corporate jet.
 
*
 OPEC decided to revise its quota system to give Persian Gulf oil producers a firm grip on the group's prices and production in the next decade. It also agreed to raise its overall production ceiling.
 
*
 The index of leading indicators fell four-tenths of a percent in October after a rise of three-tenths of a percent in September. The drop was the biggest since May. The United States trade deficit deteriorated slightly, to $27.75 billion, in the third quarter. The nation's economy grew at a rate of 2.7 percent in the third quarter, the Commerce Department said. It also reported that in October, construction spending rose 1 percent and consumer spending fell to its lowest level in nearly three years. Prices for raw farm products rose by 1.4 percent in November over October, the Agriculture Department said.
 
*
 Lackluster sales were reported for November by several leading department stores. The purchasing managers index declined in November by a percentage point, to 46.6 percent. A reading below 50 generally means the manufacturing economy is deteriorating. Orders for American machine tools dropped 32.3 percent in October over September, according to the Association for Manufacturing Technology.
 
*
 Japanese companies are in talks to acquire Perkin-Elmer's semiconductor equipment operation, one of the last American makers of devices used to etch circuits on chips. Senator J. James Exon, Democrat of Nebraska, and Representative James J. Florio, Democrat of New Jersey, asked the Administration to bar a sale of the unit to Nikon. Nikon said it was not currently in talks to buy it.
 
*
 The Big Three auto makers suffered serious sales declines in mid-November, while Japanese auto makers posted sharp gains, as overall sales of domestically produced cars slumped 6.1 percent.
 
*
 The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 41.38 points on Friday, to 2,747.65, for a gain of 80.10 on the week. The yield on the Treasury's long bond was virtually unchanged, ending at 7.87 percent. The dollar rose on Friday but was down slightly for the week against all major currencies. Gold was down $5.30 an ounce on the Comex, at $413.60.
 
*
 Miscellanea. Northeast Utilities would acquire the Public Service Company of New Hampshire under a plan filed with the United States Bankruptcy Court, to which all major parties involved have agreed . . . The White House science adviser said the Bush Administration did not endorse a recommendation to provide Federal subsidies for the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries . . . Hungary's Minister of Trade predicted that trade with the U.S. would double by the early 1990's . . . Deutsche Bank agreed to buy Morgan Grenfell, one of Britain's biggest merchant banks, in a friendly deal that values Grenfell at $1.48 billion . . . General Mills and Nestle said they were creating a company to sell breakfast cereals in Europe . . . Campeau set a deadline of Dec. 8 for initial bids on its Bloomingdale's chain, executives said . . . The S.E.C. accused a typesetting supervisor of illegally trading on informationfrom advance copies of Business Week.

GRAPHIC: Peter A. Cohen (NYT/Chester Higgins Jr.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (83%); DBK (FRA) (83%); DBK (BIT) (83%); DBETN (JSE) (83%); DBA (ASX) (83%); DB (NYSE) (83%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); PKI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (83%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (52%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (52%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (52%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (77%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (69%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); PERKINELMER INC (52%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (71%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); TERRORISM (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (66%); RETAILERS (66%); CONSUMER SPENDING (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 



53 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: FOR MIGRANT WORKERS, LEGALITY LOWERS WAGES

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN SHARP; Kathleen Sharp is a business writer based in Santa Barbara, Calif.

DATELINE: SANTA MARIA, Calif.

 BODY:
Thanks to the Federal Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, some 700,000 migrant workers in California's $16.6 billion agricultural industry have applied for legal residency in the United States. But the stamp of impending legitimacy has yielded a mixed harvest for workers.
Union organizers say the fields are flooded with legal workers, a condition that is driving down wages and encouraging abuse by employers. In Salinas, for example, at the northern tip of California's 600-mile-long Central Valley, wages have fallen from $7 an hour in 1984 to $5.50 an hour, said Peter Maturino, president of the Independent Union of Agricultural Workers. In winter, wages drop to $5 an hour, he said.
A 1988 survey by Congress' General Accounting Office reported that 40 percent of farm employers were expecting a labor shortage in 1989. Once workers attained the status of legal residents, the reasoning went, they would apply for better jobs. But it has not worked out that way. 
''Although farmers worry that an insufficient supply of seasonal workers will cause them to lose a crop,'' wrote Philip L. Martin, professor of agicultural economics at the University of California at Davis, ''there has generally been an oversupply of workers.''
A section of the act that allowed a worker to apply for amnesty if he could prove he had labored in the fields for 90 days in the 12 months ended May 1, 1986, attracted 1.3 million applications, by Friday's deadline, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Serivce. Of these, 55 percent, or 700,000 workers, were in California.
This, combined with the lack of afforable housing, has not made for an easy life for these workers. The cost of buying a small house in this area has jumped from $75,000 in 1984 to about $120,000 today. And the number of labor camps, which provided free, if only the most basic accommodations, has dropped from 240 in 1979 to 22. ''You get 19 people living in two-bedroom apartments,'' said Mr. Maturino. ''What are you going to do with them? Kick them out?''
One clear benefit of the new law, however, is that workers finally feel free to complain about longstanding problems. They are filing a large number of formal complaints and lawsuits against employers.
''Before the law, they didn't complain about working conditions because they were afraid of losing their jobs,'' said Javier C. Sanchez, of the California Agricultural Labor Relations Board. ''Now, they are speaking out about unfair practices and asking questions about unions.''
And, for the first time this decade, the growing workers' dissatisfaction is spurring an increase in union activity, say regulators. ''There have been more union elections this year than I've ever seen,'' said James H. Woltman, chief administrative law judge for the California Agricultural Labor Relations Board. The most accurate measure of union activity, say officials, is the number of requests filed by organizers seeking to enlist members in the fields. From January through the first week of October, there have been 158 such requests, compared with 56 for all of last year.
The 1989 figure includes the election involving the greatest number of voters recorded by the California Agricultural Labor Relations Board since its formation in 1975, said Lawrence Alderete, regional director with the board's Visalia district. It took place in May at Furakawa Farms, a strawberry producer here, about 160 miles northwest of Los Angeles, with the United Farm Workers winning the right to represent the farm's 500 workers.
Complaints of unfair labor practices have also risen this year, dramatically in some regions, according to Daniel M. Cornet, of the Department of Industrial Relations, division of Labor Standards Enforcement.
Unwittingly, California courts have helped fuel the increase in complaints. In a controversial ruling named for Richard Borello, a cucumber grower in Gilroy, the California Supreme Court held that sharecroppers were employees, not independent contractors, as growers had long contended. As a result, growers must now pay the minimum wage, workers' compensation and disability insurance, and comply with the same child labor laws and regulations that govern other employers.
Sharecropping has long been a tradition among growers of strawberries, snow peas, cucumbers, and garlic - an estimated $500 million sector of the state's market basket, according to the California Agricultural Statistics Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. The system employed about 20,000 farm workers, who would plant, weed, water and harvest a crop in return for a portion of sale proceeds.
Because of the Borello ruling, some payroll costs are slated to jump as much as 20 percent next year. ''That's quite a burden for farmers,'' said Richard S. Quandt, president of the Grower-Shipper Vegetable Association of Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo Counties.
On its face, the decision was a victory for workers. But it wreaked havoc in the fields. Some growers responded by canceling sharefarming contracts. Others bought out contracts, paying from $470 to $1,300 each, or the equivalent of 82 cents to $2.26 an hour. ''Different growers reacted differently,'' said Mr. Quandt. ''Some ignored the ruling.''
The inequities prompted workers to file unfair labor charges and wage claims against employers. In Santa Maria, for instance, workers joined a class-action suit filed by the California Rural Legal Association against Furakawa Farms. The suit seeks three years of back wages.
As employees rather than contractors, former sharefarmers now have the right to organize, said Michael Blank, a lawyer for the California Rural League Association. In addition to its victory at Furakawa Farms, the U.F.W. also won an election at Dan D. Packing, a cauliflower and broccoli operation here.
The U.F.W. has had company. This summer, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters won the right to represent workers at Bud Antle Inc., a large grower of lettuce and celery in Oxnard, 70 miles north of Los Angeles. In Castroville, 125 miles south of San Francisco, the Independent Union of Agricultural Workers claimed a victory at Inland Ranch, an artichoke grower.
Some farmers are trying to keep unions at bay by hiring labor management consultants. Vincent B. Zininovich, who operates a 1,000-worker table-grape vineyard in Delano, hired a consultant when two unions started organizing his workers.
The footwork apparently paid off. In the October election, workers voted overwhelmingly to keep both unions out of the fields.
Union leaders say more victories await, thanks to amnesty. Depite their gains, however, the unions may be in danger of undermining their own efforts through internal squabbling. Leaders of both the Independent Union of Agricultural Workers and the Anti-Racists Farm Workers criticize the United Farm Workers for not representing the field worker during the last decade.
The U.F.W.'s attorney, David Avizmendi, declined to respond to the criticism. But clearly the divisiveness is blunting organizing efforts.
In early October, 900 workers at Mr. Zininovich's vineyard turned out to vote in one of the largest union elections in California. Listed on the ballot were the Independent Union of Agricultural Workers, the Anti-Racists Farm Workers, or no union at all. Although the U.F.W. had organized at the farm, it wasn't able to register enough signatures to qualify for the ballot, said Mr. Alderete.
The day after the U.F.W. failed to qualify, Lane Kirkland, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., asked the state's agricultural board to defer the election so the labor federation could determine whether one union had interfered with another union's organizing efforts, in violation of bylaws.
The agricultural board allowed the ballot to stand, however, to the dismay of field organizers. Although union leaders admit that their fractured organizing efforts helped lose the election, they have not agreed to coordinate future efforts.
''We're helping the workers secure better conditions,'' said Mr. Maturino. ''At least, we're trying.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SALINAS, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; WAGES AND SALARIES; MIGRANT LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION REFORM AND CONTROL ACT OF 1986 FARM LABOR (92%); MIGRANT WORKERS (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); DISMISSALS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); ACCOUNTING (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); LITIGATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: SHARP, KATHLEEN



54 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
The Realignments on the Home Front

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
SOMETIMES losing an enemy can be more unsettling than losing a friend. The world order that since the end of World War II has shaped American politics, its view of the world and itself has suddenly come crashing down.
Through two generations, nearly every politician of national standing has been defined in large measure by where he stood on, and how he stood up to, the Red Menace. Just last year George Bush ran campaign commercials saying he could look Mikhail S. Gorbachev in the eye and not blink. Gov. Michael S. Dukakis allowed himself to be shown riding in a tank built to fight a land war in Europe. 
But the end of the cold war should bring the end of cold war politics. A central idea has been plucked from the heart of American political culture, and party leaders and academic experts are just beginning to grapple with the import of this.
''Every night for 40 years we walked into the bedroom, opened the closet and looked under the bed to see if we could find a Communist,'' said Representative Dante B. Fascell, the Florida Democrat. ''And one day we walked in, and he was in our bed, smiling. It's very confusing.''
Democrats calculate that they stand to gain as attention shifts away from fears of war to concern with the domestic issues that have been their bread and butter. For their part, Republicans concede they have lost an issue that helped them more than Democrats. But they hope benefits will flow to the party whose hard line, in their view, brought Communism to its knees.
Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic National Chairman, declared that the changes in Europe will ''help the Democratic Party immensely.''
The political dialogue will be thrown open to issues the Democrats feel stronger on, like education and the environment, said Mr. Brown, and ''it really does take a major arrow away from the Republicans.''
Perhaps, say Republican leaders. ''If our candidates are foolish enought to campaign as if the cold war were still on they'll get hurt,'' said Lee Atwater, the Republican National Chairman. But Mr. Atwater disputes suggestions that the Republicans will suffer at the polls now. President Reagan's hard line with the Soviet Government - indeed, with Marxist governments everywhere -helped produce the decline of Communism, he said, and George Bush will benefit by being at the creation of this new world.
Shortly before Mr. Bush left for his meeting in Malta with Mr. Gorbachev, some in Washington thought back to how Winston Churchill was ousted by the British voters almost immediately after the end of World War II. But Mr. Atwater sees no parallels. He said that while Americans are restless about the quality of life, they are not battered and hungry the way the British were. ''As long as the economy stays stable I am firmly convinced that the party in power benefits,'' Mr. Atwater said.
Some leaders in both parties concede they do not know what this will all mean. For one thing, the course of events in Europe is still far from clear. A retrenchment, either in Eastern Europe or in the Soviet Union itself, could revive cold war feelings here.
James McGregor Burns, the historian, suggests that the cold war cannot have a clearly defined ending. ''The cold war is not over because there will remain a huge reservoir of thinking from the cold war period still in the minds and attitudes of the American people,'' he said. ''That reservoir of feeling will be played on by politicians.''
Surveys support Mr. Burns. In a New York Times/CBS New Poll conducted last week, more than half of all adults who were questioned said they thought the cold war was not over yet. And the poll found general support for what Mr. Bush calls his ''prudent'' approach (and what Democrats call timid). A total of 67 percent of those interviewed either supported current levels of military spending or small reductions, such as Mr. Bush is currently considering. Just 21 percent said Pentagon spending should be subject to deeper cuts than have been proposed.
It may well be that the ultimate effect on American politics will not be to help one party over the other, but to fragment both. The stress on the Republicans is already clear. ''The collapse of Communism also means the collapse of a lot of the glue that has connected the various strands of the conservative movement,'' said William Bodie of the Smith Richardson Foundation, which supports many conservative groups.
Strains on both parties may result to the extent that economic concerns replace military and ideological ones. Fred Siegel, a historian at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Princeton, N.J., noted that the tariff battles of the 19th century tended to cause divisions within the parties as local economic interests overrode national ones. The same thing might happen again as each region weighs its place in the world market.
Anti-Communism has been central to the Republican Party, but it has also shaped politics among the Democrats. Not long ago, talk of the Jackson wing of the party referred not to the Rev. Jesse Jackson, but to Henry M. Jackson, the late Senator from Washington state whose support for military preparedness against the Soviets helped cement the bipartisan consensus of the cold war.
Some Democrats have tried to follow in Senator Jackson's footsteps in recent years, seeking to build reputations as strong supporters of the Pentagon. But already the scramble for new issues is under way. Senator Albert Gore of Tennessee, who sought the Democratic Presidential nomination last year as a hawk in a field of doves, has spent much of this year talking about environmental problems raised by the greenhouse effect.
Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York gave speeches last week on American competitiveness. Mr. Cuomo even used words reminiscent of the cold war talk of missile gaps. ''The Japanese and the Germans are moving ahead of us economically,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''It's a war for markets. It's a war for productivity and quality products. And you're losing now.''
Perhaps the American psyche has been so conditioned that it must regard the world in terms of wars and foes. Perhaps more likely, it will simply take some time to get used to the new world.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); MALTA (71%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); COLD WAR (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



55 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
Turnstile Politics: Preparing for the $1.15 Token

BYLINE: By DAVID E. PITT

 BODY:
LAST Monday, it seemed all but certain that New York City's $1 subway and bus fare would jump to $1.25 on New Year's Day.
But after a long hearing, the $1.25 fare - and a plan to sell 18 tokens for $20 - was fading fast. Transit Authority officials were talking instead about a $1.15 fare and no discount.
It sounded very much like the original blueprint that had been hammered out in Albany three years ago. 
What was behind the apparent retreat? Some suggested that the $1.25 idea had been a gimmick to allow politicians to rail against it - and look like heroes when they agreed on $1.15.
Transit officials insisted there was a more innocent explanation. ''My sense of what happened is simply that the public reaction killed the $1.25, $20-pack plan,'' said John Cunningham, chief spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the Transit Authority's parent agency.
Judging by appearances, that could have been the case. On Monday, about 150 outraged citizens, joined by 17 elected officials, denounced the plan during an 11-hour public hearing in Manhattan. Many said that they simply could not afford it. ''$1.25 for What?'' was the title of a survey of subway services by the Straphangers Campaign, a rider-advocacy group, whose members argued that while improvements had taken place in subway service since the 1987 fare increase, the overall quality remained mixed - good on some lines and dreadful on others.
Others, like Beverly Dolinsky of the Transit Authority's citizens' advisory council, argued that there should be no fare increase without ''mitigating measures,'' such as multitrip discounts, and until the agency showed improvement in controlling fare evaders.
Some influential politicians, notably Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, let it be known that while they were prepared to accept a fare increase, they were unconvinced by the Transit Authority argument that a $1.25 fare would be logistically easier to handle than $1.15 because fewer coins would be involved. Moreover, Mr. Cuomo and others said the agency had no grounds to violate the 1987 agreement with its unions, the Governor and the Legislature, which provided for the $1.15 fare.
The agreement, which cleared the way for a five-year $8.5 billion capital investment - $6.6 billion of which was to go for subway and bus improvements - was based on an estimated M.T.A. budget deficit of $200 million in 1990, and on the conclusion that a 15 percent fare increase was the only way to close it.
Another assumption was that the 1990 fare increase would be followed by rises every other year that would roughly equal inflation, along with increases in tolls on bridges and tunnels controlled by the M.T.A. This, officials said, would have a long-term stabilizing effect on the fare.
''To climb out of a seemingly bottomless hole, everyone has to help by giving up something,'' Felix G. Rohatyn, a principal architect of the 1987 plan, wrote in a recent commentary. ''In return, the public at large gets something immeasurably larger than what has been sacrificed.''
But last week, not everyone was buying the idea that the projected deficit should come out of the riders' pockets - or that the deficit, at least a $200 million one, was unavoidable. The feeling deepened when the head of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey announced plans to raise tolls on those bridges and tunnels.
Some critics, like State Senator Franz S. Leichter of Manhattan, a longtime opponent of many M.T.A. policies, proposed that the Legislature close the deficit by taxing the rich, preferably through a surcharge on the capital gains tax on large industrial or commercial real-estate sales.
''The Transit Authority wastes prodigious sums,'' the senator said, asserting that the agency could save $40 million just by eliminating ''nonessential positions'' among what he described as its many highly paid executives.
Others also called for eliminating what the M.T.A.'s Inspector General and the State Comptroller, Edward V. Regan, have described as millions of dollars of wasteful practices.
Mr. Regan has also accused the Transit Authority of painting an overly rosy picture of its financial prospects over the next several years, suggesting that it has overestimated anticipated ridership and revenue from real-estate-related taxes and other sources.
The assumption behind the 1987 agreement was that if a huge sum of money was used to begin correcting long-term problems on the transit system, riders would begin to return.
To that end, the Transit Authority began buying and refurbishing subway cars and buses, eliminating graffiti, and repairing tracks and modernizing signal systems, while improving maintenance and on-time performance.
Unfortunately, the 1987 Wall Street crash, combined with social problems like homelessness and crack addiction, has thrown a monkey wrench into the agency's best-laid plans, and ridership has not gone up as much as officials would have liked.
On top of that, David L. Gunn, the Transit Authority's president, acknowledged, ''The public's perception of a lack of order on the system, resulting in part from numbers of homeless people, beggars and peddlers, has also deterred potential customers.''
As of last week, there was little to suggest that the city's long slog out of the ''seemingly bottomless hole'' was any closer to an end.

GRAPHIC: Photo of token being deposit into subway turnstile (The New York Times/Sara Krulwich); graph of total average weekly ridership of New York City buses and subways, with breakdown for each, 1969-1988 (Source: New York City Transit Authority)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, METROPOLITAN (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FARES; SUBWAYS; BUSES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CITIES (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); BUDGETS (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: PITT, DAVID E JOHN ANDERSON CUNNINGHAM (56%); 



56 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 25, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Is Eastern Europe Ready?

BYLINE: By Tad Szulc; Tad Szulc was The New York Times's bureau chief in Prague in 1968.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
When Tadeusz Mazowiecki became Poland's first postwar non-Communist Prime Minister on Aug. 24, the euphoria at home and abroad was extraordinary. His ascent resulted from the overwhelming victory of the Solidarity-backed opposition over Communist candidates in the relatively free parliamentary elections in June -the first since 1946 - and it represented a turning point in Polish history.
Today, after Mr. Mazowiecki succeeded in the tough task of forming a coalition Government that has the primary job of averting economic collapse, he has been the target of such violent attacks from all sides - often from the new democratic press -that the survival of Poland's infant democracy may be in question.
This is the most alarming news to come out of Eastern Europe. My authority for alarm about Poland - and for concern that, if extreme care is not taken, similar situations may develop in other Eastern European nations - is primarily Jerzy Turowicz, Poland's most respected and courageous editor. 
His Roman Catholic-oriented weekly, Tygodnik Powszechny, defied Communist rule for 40 years despite merciless censorship. I was shocked to read in the Nov. 5 issue his front-page denunciation of the increasingly divided Solidarity and other democratic groups for joining the bankrupt Communist Party in undermining Mazowiecki programs through savage and irresponsible criticism.
He wrote: ''In the present and really exceptional situation, it is vital to have the absolute solidarity of the democratic forces with the Government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki, who was entrusted with the responsibility of squaring the circle . . . . Yes, let there be criticism of the Government, but only the kind that will help the Mazowiecki Government, not interfere or undermine [it]. Otherwise, the attempt to evolve from totalitarianism to democracy will not succeed.'' Poland's drama illustrates the horrifying problems facing Eastern Europe. Mr. Turowicz's warning should be taken with utmost seriousness. Because the Poles are the most advanced in the democratic direction and have had the most time to prepare for the transition, the Hungarians, East Germans, Czechoslovakians and Bulgarians must closely watch their experience.
The common demoninator in all of today's Eastern European crises is that the anti-Communist opposition -including the Poles, with nearly 10 years of Solidarity behind them -has not been remotely ready for the sudden unraveling of Communist rule: There are vacuums in political organization, leadership and programs.
Warsaw's problems are atrocious. Mr. Mazowiecki inherited a crippled economy, with inflation running at a monthly 100 percent rate (it is now 50 percent), a $40 billion external debt and a huge domestic deficit.
Perhaps his austerity program should have been better designed. Nonetheless, the tragedy is that it is being attacked not only by the Communists, who delight in seeing the democrats divided and paralyzed, but also by so-called liberal democrats, who are sniping for reasons of shameful political self-interest.
Hungary, where the Communist Party has formally abolished itself, is split over how to organize democracy. In last Sunday's referendum, the voters chose to delay indefinitely the presidential election out of fear that even a Communist reformer might win - but the margin of decision was surprisingly tiny.
Much ugliness, including new anti-Semitic tendencies, pervades Hungary's political climate. The economy is in bad shape despite vaunted reforms by party ''progressives,'' and heavy political infighting lies ahead. Meanwhile, no credible non-Communist leadership has emerged.
In East Germany, the Berlin wall is a memory, as is the Honecker regime, but the Communist Party remains in power, probably for a long time to come. The opposition born in the streets is not equipped to challenge it: The New Forum and the Citizens Democratic Movement are not political parties, there is no Lech Walesa and the anti-Communists are thus in no hurry to face the party in elections promised for 1990.
It is too soon to assess the Czechoslovak situation, but the Communists are still very much in control despite power-sharing commitments. The freshly organized Civic Forum does not regard itself as a political party. Months may elapse before traditional (or new) parties are organized. The new opposition lacks the leadership and programs of the liberal Communists when they launched the ''Prague Spring'' in 1968.
Internal democratic quarrels along with the democratic structural weaknesses suggest that Mr. Turowicz's gloomy prophesies for Poland may come true throughout the region.
If so, conditions may well be created for reactionary backlashes from the Communists, whose bureaucracies remain strong - and who run most of their countries' affairs because nobody is yet available to replace them - or from the right, which would impose neo-fascism complete with reborn anti-Semitism.
In the most pessimistic scenario, democratic failure in Eastern Europe could undermine Mikhail Gorbachev and perestroika. After all, it was Mr. Gorbachev who helped democracy flower among the former satellites, and, if disaster occurs, his domestic enemies will not let him forget. This should be a sobering thought in the midst of our euphoria over Eastern Europe.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: POLAND (98%); EUROPE (97%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); GERMANY (79%); BULGARIA (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; POLAND; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CENSORSHIP (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (63%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: SZULC, TAD TADEUSZ MAZOWIECKI (94%); 



57 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 25, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
New Summit Question

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: VALLETTA, Malta

 BODY:
There's a noticeable feeling of edginess as superpower leaders meet here to seek a grasp on a dizzily changing world.
The weather turned miserable shortly before Presidents George Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev arrived, gale-force winds and driving rain making everybody wonder why on earth they're meeting on ships. A crack going around the meeting is that events in Europe were already running beyond their influence, but Malta proves they're impotent when it comes to controlling the climate.
Obviously this is a summit meeting that may mark a watershed. The Soviets hope so. They are looking for a declaration that can be presented as a ''common philosophy,'' a ''bottom-line concept'' of understanding on facing historical transition. 
Americans probably exaggerate when they say Moscow wants guarantees for what will happen in Europe. It's less in one way, more in another. The Soviets want to be sure things won't go too fast, especially in the Germanys. They would like changes to be predictable, which is asking too much, and they would like to feel that their security interests will be respected by all, though they are redefining them as their empire comes unstuck.
There is fear of domestic reaction and the doom of perestroika if disorder in East Germany should reach the point of attacks on Soviet troops. They are worried about extremists of all kinds, ''from the left or the right'' as one official put it. But even solid West Germany couldn't prevent the murder of the head of the Deutsche Bank.
Various Soviet officials discuss Germany's future and possible unity with different accents. Moscow's position isn't as solidly cemented as headlines make it seem. In their concern to slow the pace, the Soviets haven't appreciated the importance of pushing for early East German elections. There's no political organization with authority there now, no leaders who can speak for what people want.
Everybody knows what they don't want. But if they aren't offered concrete steps soon, a demand for quick reunification, which nobody else wants, could become inevitable. Calling for elections in late spring could launch an orderly political process, produce legitimate authorities who could deal with East and West in the rational way Moscow urgently seeks. Elections late in 1990 would coincide with West Germany's, an unsettling prospect.
The Soviets are pleased, after all, with the way relations have developed with the non-Communist Polish Prime Minister, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, after a moment of initial panic. They would be wise to urge East Germany to produce a representative government soon. That would make it easier for Washington, Bonn and others to show they take account of Soviet concerns.
The 35-nation Helsinki summit meeting Mr. Gorbachev proposed for late 1990 represents the evolution of his thinking, something more concrete than the ''common European house'' rhetoric, with the U.S. and Canada included, but not institution-building or alliance-threatening. The ideas are fuzzy because they haven't been worked out, but they no longer seem to be driven by propaganda. He does feel the need to show his people he is leading them into a safer world.
Arms control is necessarily a part of that, for political, psychological and economic reasons. It's not in the foreground of this meeting because current negotiations have already reached the point of largely technical issues. But if the Soviets can persuade Mr. Bush, there will be something said about going ''beyond Start,'' enhancing ''strategic stability,'' perhaps a major shift away from multiple-warhead missiles Mr. Gorbachev's push to include naval forces in conventional-arms cuts is rejected by the West at this stage. But it is something the Soviets will keep coming back to, probably arguing for removal of nuclear weapons from surface ships as a first step, an idea already launched by the former U.S. negotiator Paul Nitze. Now that Moscow has come up with ''minimal deterrence'' in Europe, instead of the utopian ban on all nuclear weapons, its argument is that the U.S. nuclear guarantee will be assured on land and needn't be reinforced on European seas.
On this point of short-range missiles, a surprise Soviet proposal is likely, whether in Malta or later. That is to cut tactical and shorter than the now-banned intermediate-range nuclear arms to 500 to 1,000 warheads. It would be a dramatic reduction for Moscow, much less for NATO.
But weaponry is less and less the issue as the sense of trying to make another kind of Europe grow. Not using them and getting rid of some is a great first step. Then what? It's a new question the summit meeting can't answer. But at least it's being asked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALTA (91%); FINLAND (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); POLITICS (85%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WEATHER (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



58 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:

CAN A NOVELIST SAVE PERU? pretends to answer the question of whether Mario Vargas Llosa can ''save'' Peru (as if the days of one-man rescue missions still existed!). He focuses on the dilemma of a novelist-turned-politician who can no longer use his imagination, because ''in politics you have no use for the imagination'' (something I hope is vigorously contested). He offers an interesting psychological look at the novelist (for those interested), but he doesn't tell us what plans Vargos Llosa has to subdue the entrenched Maoist guerrilla movement, nor does he tell us what Vargas Llosa is offering, outside of free-market medicine for an economy gone awry, or what he will do to overcome the growing problem of narcotics trafficking.
The article quotes Vargas Llosa as saying, ''People have suffered so long, they are willing to suffer a little longer - if we can show them it is not for nothing.'' Easy for someone to say who has lived far away from Peru in the comfort of London for much of the past two decade; a trip to the southern highlands, where poverty and desperation gave birth to the guerrilla movement may teach Vargas Llosa that people can wait only so long.
 
JO-MARIE BURT
 New York, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); POLITICS (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (53%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (53%); 

PERSON: VARGAS LLOSA, MARIO; MARZORATI, GERALD



59 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: JUST ANOTHER NIGHT ON CRACK STREET

 BODY:
Philippe Bourgois provides a chilling account of East Harlem's drug culture (''Just Another Night on Crack Street,'' Nov. 12). The men and women he has lived with and observed appear to be ambitious and resourceful, albeit painfully misguided. They also appear to be firmly entrenched in their deviant life style. But what of the children growing up in this environment? Are they doomed to follow in the footsteps of Mr. Bourgois's subjects? If they have to choose between the underground and the service economy, we all will be losers.
 
JARED BERNSTEIN
 New York, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC)

SUBJECT: DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; CRACK (COCAINE) SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); COCAINE (88%); 

PERSON: BOURGOIS, PHILIPPE JARED BERNSTEIN (51%); 



60 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14, Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: JUST ANOTHER NIGHT ON CRACK STREET

 BODY:
It is difficult to disagree with Philippe Bourgois's assertion that ''. . . ambitious, energetic, inner-city youths are attracted to the underground economy precisely because they believe in the rags-to-riches American Dream.'' Horatio Alger with a needle.
Maybe it's time for America to get real. Selling drugs is America's biggest and best business. It pays better than teaching, writing or working for McDonald's. Why, it takes Herculean efforts to raise the minimum wage to a paltry $4.15 an hour. In the United States, if you do not go where the big money is, you are definitely a fool.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER LOUIS PHILLIPS
 New York, N.Y.

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC)

SUBJECT: DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; CRACK (COCAINE) CITY LIFE (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (86%); COCAINE (86%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (85%); MINIMUM WAGE (52%); 

PERSON: BOURGOIS, PHILIPPE



61 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 22, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 3871 words

HEADLINE: A Bit Player Buys Into the Computer Age

BYLINE: By John Maxwell Hamilton; John Maxwell Hamilton, senior public affairs adviser at the World Bank, is the author of the forthcoming book ''Entangling Alliances,'' from which this article is adapted.

 BODY:
IN A JANUARY NIGHT IN 1973, ALAN R. FRASER lugged a cardboard carton through customs and stepped into the crowded arrivals hall of Manila International Airport. The New Zealand entrepreneur was desperate. Fraser needed a company with the equipment and the low-cost data-entry typists to convert his box of paper into computer files. He had just come from Singapore, where a small shop had attempted the job - but had made so many errors the work was worthless. That left Fraser with only 24 hours to fulfill his company's first contract, a $500 order from an Australian accounting house.
Now he stood in the terminal, looking for a man he knew only from their hurried telephone conversation that morning: Emmanuel Cu, the manager of a local data-entry company. When Fraser found Cu, they went to the seedy airport cafeteria. Cu promised to put the documents on magnetic tape and send them by plane to Sydney the next day. ''He wanted me to wait overnight in Manila,'' Fraser recalls, ''but I couldn't afford the hotel room.''
Cu delivered, and from those uncertain beginnings has grown Saztec International Inc., with headquarters in Kansas City, Mo., and a knack for finding clients and reliable workers around the world. 
With $20 million in revenues for the fiscal year of 1989, which ended in June, Saztec is hardly a major player in the computer-driven globalization of business. Yet it is emblematic of the phenomenon, one of the thousands of small, specialized companies toiling in the shadows of such behemoths as I.B.M. and A. T. &T. to provide the underpinnings for the Information Revolution.
Like so many of its counterparts, Saztec was founded by an individual entrepreneur, but is now in the hands of a management team. Having mastered a market niche, the company must scramble to stay ahead of new technologies that could make its core business obsolete. And in pursuit of capital to chase its dreams, the company has exposed itself to the vicissitudes of the stock market.
In three years of over-the-counter trading, Saztec shares have ranged as high as 9 3/4 and as low as 1. The company ran net losses for two of those years before finally realizing a $1 million profit in the fiscal year of 1989. As a badge of the struggle, Thomas L. Reed, the 44-year-old chairman and chief executive, points to his mustache, which, unlike his curly, dark hair, is gray. ''It was brown before we went public,'' he says.
FROM AROUND THE WORLD, PAPER POURS into Saztec offices by the ton: hospital records from Greensboro, N.C.; names and addresses of Stride-Rite shoe customers; consumer credit reports from Britain. Ranks of data-entry typists convert the documents into the digitized form that is the lingua franca of the Information Age. Typically, two people key in the material, so the computer can search for discrepancies between the two copies and flag them for an operator to correct. The finished product, ready for shipment anywhere in the world, is a computer disk or a magnetic tape the size of a movie reel.
Saztec International specializes in big, time-consuming or tedious jobs that customers don't want to perform for themselves. Clients include Illinois Bell and several other telephone companies, which are building computer data bases of handwritten engineering and maintenance records. (If the family at 249 Mulberry keeps a pit bull in the backyard, this fact can be flagged for repairmen.) Saztec also keys in musty volumes of legal records and court decisions for Mead Data Central Inc., whose NEXIS and LEXIS services contain more than 2,100 on-line data bases.
Over the years Saztec has become one of the world's largest providers of data-conversion services, according to Linda Helgerson, president of Diversified Data Resources Inc., which monitors data-storage companies. But the market is hard to quantify. Although industry estimates place the business in the billions of dollars (See chart on page 24.), the numbers do not cover the many companies that handle their data-conversion needs in-house by compiling subscriber lists, updating personnel records and performing other routine tasks. Some big corporations use their spare computer capacity to sell data-conversion services as a side business. And there are thousands of mom-and-pop contractors around the country that may perform one or two small jobs and then quietly disappear.
Saztec International headquarters, in leased offices at a Kansas City industrial park, employs about 230 people. The company also runs a 35-person software and data-processing center near Dayton, Ohio, and a data-entry facility with a staff of 130 in Ardrossan, Scotland. Other holdings include a majority stake in London-based Saztec Europe Ltd. and a small piece of its primary subcontractor - Saztec Philippines Inc., the part of the business Alan Fraser retained when he sold the rest of the company in 1983.
Saztec International does more than put information into computers. The company creates the software programs and performs whatever coding, formatting and computer processing the job may require. In one of its more ambitious and entrepreneurial undertakings, Saztec in 1987 won a four-year contract to convert the British Library's book catalogue - all 360 volumes of it - into a database.
When Saztec first learned of the library's plans in 1985, word was that a New York data company was about to get the job. Conrad Lealand, the New Zealander who heads the London office, met with library and government officials. Saztec, he argued, could keep the work in Britain. The company then rushed to set up shop in Scotland, finding space in a former Shell Oil refinery in Ardrossan and hiring a score of local people - a small enough experiment that ''we could have pulled up and gone home if we didn't get the contract,'' says Lealand.
In winning the $3.5-million contract in 1987, Saztec also secured the rights to sell computer-disk copies of the British Library's database until the year 2001. Only one of the three disks in the set is ready so far, but more than 40 buyers - including the Vatican's library and Stanford University - have already signed up for the $16,500 package. The printed version, says Reed, sells for more than $19,000.
UNDER TOM REED, SAZTEC DISPLAYS THE corporate informality of the 80's computer culture. The switchboard operator greets even strangers' calls with a cheery ''O.K., I'll get Tom on the telephone for you.'' His office, overlooking the industrial park's duck pond, is furnished with an aquarium, easy chairs and two sofas. ''It's been called the living room,'' says Reed, who consciously eschewed a ''formal, power room.''
Like many Information Age entrepreneurs, Reed learned by doing. He got involved with computers and communications as an Air Force staff sergeant in the mid-60's, gathering military intelligence at electronic listening posts, first in Okinawa, later in Crete.
After the service he returned to his hometown, Dayton, and became a computer operator at the National Cash Register Co. (now an information-technology company known as the NCR Corporation). In 1968, Reed moved to a computer job at local Wright State University and started taking classes part time. He never completed his business administration degree, but by the time he left four years later, Reed was the university's assistant director for computer services.
As Reed was arriving at Wright State, a 31-year-old major in the New Zealand army named Alan Fraser was growing restless. Fraser, a graduate of Australia's version of West Point, had fought communist incursions in Malaysia, Borneo and South Vietnam. But the more he saw of the Vietnam War, he says, the more disillusioned he became. In 1968 Fraser traded his fatigues for pin stripes and joined the by-the-book bureaucracy of the world's largest computer company, I.B.M. For the next few years Fraser, based in Wellington, New Zealand, sold mainframes, as well as time sharing and other services - including data entry, a business I.B.M. has long since abandoned to smaller players.
Eventually, Fraser concluded that he would rather start his own company than work for someone else. While shaving one morning, he pondered the possibilities. ''And then I saw the cap,'' he recalls. The cap belonged to his aerosol shaving cream can, and Fraser dreamed up such refinements as putting the brand name on the cap and punching a pin hole in the top to let moisture evaporate from the nozzle. Seeking a name for the company, he leafed through a magazine, where he came upon a story about Mexican Indians. He decided on the spot to call his company-to-be Aztec. Lever Brothers placed orders for Aztec caps, which a New Zealand plastics company produced to Fraser's specifications.
In 1973, with a bankroll of about $25,000 from his cap project and the sale of his house, Fraser moved to Sydney to set up a data-entry business. He saw that the day of punched holes in paper cards was passing and that more and more corporations were recognizing the value of managing their information with computers. Fraser registered his Sydney-based company in Singapore, where he planned to find his low-wage workers. Discovering that another firm was already called Aztec, he borrowed the 'S' from Singapore to coin the name Saztec.
When Fraser's path crossed Reed's in 1977, Saztec was doing about $1 million worth of business, serving customers in Australia, Singapore and the United States by brokering work for data-entry shops in the Philippines and Singapore. Reed was working in Los Angeles, running a regional office for a data-entry company called Scan-Data. Fraser walked in one day, prospecting for business. Reed liked the talkative, energetic New Zealander ''right off,'' he remembers. ''Most people do.''
Scan-Data had just taken on a big insurance-company contract, and Reed gave a piece of the work to Fraser's Saztec. The two men had subsequent business dealings. And in 1978, when Fraser decided he needed an expanded presence in the United States, he turned to Reed, making him Saztec's chief operating officer and giving him 14 percent of the company.
KENT MEYER IS SAZTEC'S SECRETARY AND a vice president of marketing, but he has long resisted moving to the Kansas City headquarters. Even while he was responsible for the company's Scotland operations, he preferred to reside in Dayton, where his wife grew up. ''We can live anywhere,'' he explains, ''as long as we have telephone service and Federal Express.''
Meyer's attitude is not unique. For dozens of Saztec employees ''the office'' is wherever they can plug personal-computer modems into telephone jacks. Two Saztec systems analysts work and live in Eugene, Ore.; some 65 data-entry operators in Kansas City work at home.
Such arrangements are becoming commonplace, as businesses support far-flung operations. According to management consultants Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inc., in 1988 there were 17,000 leased international telephone circuits, the building blocks of private communications networks. That number may triple by 1995. One of the largest private networks belongs to General Motors, enabling the staff at G. M. sites in 40 countries to send engineering designs from computer to computer and conduct long-distance meetings by closed-circuit video.
Saztec, though far from being a global giant, has been able to ply the international marketplace by employing a mix of communications media as mundane as air freight and as in-vogue as fiber-optic lines. When Saztec converted the Helsinki National Library's catalogue - including new acquisitions - into a computer database last year, the $130,000 job turned into an information odyssey (See diagram on pages 22 and 23.) involving Saztec employees and subcontractors in Manila, Sydney, Toronto, Dayton, London and Ardrossan.
In the data-entry business, one of the essential ingredients is a dependable supply of low-wage workers. Saztec's typists in Kansas City, the best-paid of whom earn about $6.50 an hour, perform the jobs that must remain in the United States because they require same-day turnaround or close supervision by the client - or, for security reasons, cannot be done offshore. But whenever possible, Saztec and other data-entry companies claim they must take their work overseas to be competitive. Robert Denzau, president of Offshore Information Services, based in Tarrytown, N.Y., says he started his company's 175-person operation in Jamaica because it let him offer prices 60 percent below those he would charge for work done in the United States. ''If you can't beat them, join them,'' says Denzau. In Scotland, where the unemployment rate is 9.2 percent, Saztec pays a skilled data-entry worker $5.00 an hour. But unless the company finds other special projects for the Ardrossan facility, it may close after the project for the British Library is finished. ''Feeding the monster in Scotland,'' is how one Saztec executive describes the problem. The company finds it much easier to attract clients to Filipino pay scales. In Manila, where college graduates slog away at data entry because it pays better than most alternatives, Saztec offers up to $2 an hour. Compared with the Philippines average annual income of about $1,700, a Saztec data-entry operator with four years of experience can earn $2,650 plus bonuses.
Some American data-entry firms use non-English-speaking employees in Asia and elsewhere, arguing that the typists need not understand what they're copying and - undistracted by the meaning of the words - will type faster. But Saztec prefers to operate in countries with English-speaking workers, Fraser says, because ''English is the language of the computer.'' Stories abound of American companies that rely on foreign translators who know little about computers and end up with computer manuals that use the Indonesian word ''underwear'' for ''software'' or the Arabic ''false pregnancy'' for ''dummy load.''
Although Saztec is not among them, many data-entry companies have set up shop in India and the Carribbean. A. M. R. Caribbean Data Services, an affiliate of American Airlines, went into the data-entry business in 1983 by using typists in Barbados to key in data from used airline tickets. Today its business has expanded to insurance and medical companies, though the company has a policy of not divulging clients' identities. As one executive explains, ''If you were an insurance company and were firing data-entry people in the States, would you want anyone to know you were hiring them in the Caribbean?''
Off-shore workers offer another advantage besides low wages, says Saztec's Reed - low turnover. Data entry is tedious and demanding, with pay based on speed and accuracy as monitored by computers. American workers generally have far greater opportunities to move to more fulfilling jobs than their counterparts in developing countries. (Even in the United States, entry workers often are those with few career options. Many states - Minnesota is among the more active - find data entry a good way to keep prison inmates busy.) Critics see vestiges of colonialism in the practice of farming out data entry to the third world. They also perceive a rich irony: the vaunted Information Age, with the Global Village as its defining metaphor, in practice finds the poor countries performing piecework for the rich ones. And yet, others argue that without exposure to computers, the developing nations might be bypassed altogether.
Saztec's Alan Fraser, who says he devotes 12.5 percent of Saztec Philippines' profits to charity, defends his company's employment practices. Besides paying comparatively high wages, Fraser also provides free medical care and stock options. ''If we don't have a benefit,'' he says, ''it's because we haven't thought of it.''
IN THE MIDST OF 1987's RAGING bull market, a consultant with the National Association of Securities Dealers visited the headquarters of Saztec, which six months earlier had raised $2.4 million in its first public stock offering. ''He said he was there just to let us know how the over-the-counter market works,'' recalls the company's senior vice president and treasurer, David Roberts. ''But I've always wondered if he wasn't also checking to see if there really was a company called Saztec International.''
A certain amount of skepticism would have been understandable. In the months leading up to Black Monday, little-known underwriters had issued shares for dozens of new ventures through the over-the-counter market. Many of these new companies soon went bankrupt, notes Richard P. Kiphart, an investment banker with Chicago's William Blair & Co., and ''few of those stocks ever traded in relation to their real value.''
Because over-the-counter shares are quoted only as ''bid'' and ''asked'' prices by the market-maker brokers specializing in the stock, the true value can be elusive. Through most of 1987, Saztec executives watched their stock with wonder. Each quarter, ''we'd put out a news release that we were losing money, and the price would go up,'' says Roberts, recounting the stock's inexorable ascent from 3 1/4 in December 1986 to 9 3/4 right before the market crash.
In the middle of this run-up, Saztec reported a loss of $180,000 for the 1987 fiscal year. The company put much of the blame on the cost of opening the Ardrossan facility and acquiring data-entry and computer processing companies in Kansas City and Dayton. Revenues were not keeping pace with outlays for new equipment, increased staff and a stepped-up sales effort. But the stock, undaunted, continued its climb.
Then came the October crash. Soon afterward, the lead broker of Saztec's stock, a small New York house called Steinberg & Lyman, bailed out of investment banking. As the other market makers fled to less speculative issues, there was no trustworthy market for Saztec's shares. By March 1988 the highest bid the stock could muster was 3 3/4, and Roberts was fielding calls from irate investors claiming their brokers had misled them. By September 1988, bids were seldom above 1 1/8.
But once again, the stock's price seemed to have little to do with the underlying value of the company. During 1988 Saztec moved from Los Angeles - where operations had been based since Fraser set up his United States beachhead - to the newly acquired data center in Kansas City, where expenses would be lower. At the same time, the money being pumped into sales was beginning to pay off in lucrative new contracts. Saztec reported a loss of $1.1 million in 1988, but revenues were up 160 percent to $9.2 million.
For Saztec, ''1989 was the year to spend money,'' says Roberts. ''In 1989, things really took off.'' The company's share price headed back up, and market makers showed new interest. Rodman & Renshaw, an investment bank in Chicago, began dealing in Saztec shares in February, when the bid price was around 2 1/4. Saztec's stock remains a speculative risk, concedes Mark J. Grant, managing director of Rodman & Renshaw's Kansas City office, ''but it's a businessman's risk.''
Since Saztec's mid-year announcement of a million-dollar profit for 1989, accompanied by its projections of 20 percent growth for 1990, the stock has risen further. Through the autumn, bid prices were in the 4-to-4 1/4 range. ''This time,'' Roberts says, ''the price increase is for all the right reasons.''
LAST WINTER SAZTEC USED A LASER technology known as image scanning to put pictures of the Gerber baby, McDonald's golden arches and more than 600,000 other registered trademarks onto compact disks that can present color drawings and photographs on a computer screen. The $1-million job was performed for a company that intends to provide services for attorneys and research companies specializing in copyright law.
Saztec has also used image scanning to convert some of the Du Pont Company's engineering manuals to optical disk. Such projects, says Reed, ''open a new kind of business for us.''
In the Information Age, technological change is rapid, and companies like Saztec must keep up. ''Saztec doesn't have to invent the newest technology,'' says an analyst with the Kansas City investment house of George K. Baum & Co. ''They just need to master it.''
At Saztec, data entry by keyboard still generates the bulk of the company's revenues, but various Government and private studies have predicted that third-world data-entry workers eventually will give way to optical character readers (O. C. R.'s) - devices that can scan a printed page and convert the words to computer text.
In fact, Saztec has used O. C. R.'s since the early 80's, but only for the 5 percent of its jobs in which the printed documents are sufficiently legible and uniform in size and format. Reed insists that O. C. R.'s will never completely replace people, who can read handwritten scraps of paper and distinguish between a coffee stain and a word. And he notes that a human operator must be on hand to correct the occasional snatches of garbled text that even the best optical-scanning equipment produces. While traditional data entry represents a smaller portion of Saztec's overall business each year, the revenues from the work continue to increase - $12 million in fiscal 1989, compared with $1.5 million five years ago.
Soon the company may be able to send even more of its data-entry jobs to the Philippines, assignments that because of tight deadlines might formerly have stayed in the United States. Using a new one-day-turn-around service it calls Information Conversion Express (I. C. E.), Saztec plans to employ a bank of facsimile machines to send records - at the rate of one page every three seconds - from Dayton to Manila. The keyed data would be sent back via satellite or fiber-optic telephone circuits.
One candidate for I. C. E. is the database company Mead Data Central, which until now has entrusted only old legal documents to Saztec's offshore workers. For newer material, Mead uses its own data-entry operators, fearing that any delay would let competitors put the material on line sooner. While Mead executives say early I. C. E. trials have met the company's speed and accuracy standards, no contract has been signed.
I. C. E., if successful, could let Saztec play a bigger role in its customers' day-to-day operations. And ongoing work, as opposed to one-time projects, would give Saztec much greater stability.
Back in Manila, Alan Fraser hopes I. C. E.'s two-way communications capabilities will let his Filipino workers move beyond mere data entry to more sophisticated activities. He now plans to double his staff to 2,000 and move to a $2.5 million facility he is building near Manila's airport - the place Saztec got its start.
Fraser envisions the day when his employees will not merely build databases, but also tap into them to perform research for overseas clients. One possibility, he says, thinking aloud, might be to create a profile of the European commodities market for American accounting firms.
''We can say to the best brains,'' continues Fraser, already framing the concept in marketing terms, ''here you have all the information of the world. At your fingertips.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A picture today on page 23 of The Business World, part 2 of The Times Magazine, showing Alan Fraser, founder of Saztec, carries an incorrect credit line. The photographer was Jay Mariano for Sygma. On page 42, a picture caption about Stephen Wolf misstates his corporate affiliation. It is UAL, not UA.

GRAPHIC: Thomas Reed, Saztec's C.E.O., and Gary Abernathy, president, at Kansas City, Mo., headquarters. Racks of computer tapes contain data typed in by American and Filipino workers (Stuart Bakal-Schwartzberg) (pg. C22); Alan Fraser, Saztec's founder, with workers at the Saztec Philippines facility. Data entry is done in English-speaking countries, he says, because ''English is the language of the computer.'' (Jay Mariano/Sygma) (pgs. 23); Tammy Kunkle, with her son, Joshua, in Independence, Mo. She is among the dozens of data-entry typists employed by Kansas City-based Saztec who do their work at home (Stuart Bakal-Schwartzberg) (pg. 54)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SAZZ (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (93%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (93%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (93%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAZTEC INTERNATIONAL INC (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAZTEC INTERNATIONAL INC

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS AIRPORTS (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); SECURITIES TRADING (62%); CONSUMER LENDING (60%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, JOHN MAXWELL; FRASER, ALAN R TOM REED (50%); 



62 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 19, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 3779 words

HEADLINE: PERILS OF THE SIMMONS WATCH

BYLINE: By Bill Bancroft; Bill Bancroft is a Dallas-based business writer.

 BODY:
''LAST YEAR, HAROLD C. SIMMONS returned to the hunt, taking positions in Lockheed and Chrysler. Since then, he has bought into Georgia Gulf and Inland Steel and signaled interest in Paccar and Phelps Dodge. His moves have not gone unnoticed. During the last few years, the 58-year-old Texas billionaire has joined the ranks of the catalysts - a select group of raiders such as T. Boone Pickens and Carl C. Icahn - whose corporate forays attract coteries of watchers. By riding the raiders' coattails, the watchers, chiefly arbitrageurs and investment fund managers, can move the market.
For the watchers, Simmons presented a particularly challenging figure. The arbitrageurs knew that Simmons could not buy all those companies. Which one should they put their money on? As he constantly switched his attention from company to company, buying shares one day and selling them the next, the watchers remained confused. And that was no accident. No raider has been as outspoken as Simmons in identifying the arbs as his natural enemies. He was laying down a smoke screen to foil them. 
Simmons is a notable bottom fisher. When he stalks a company, he wants to bag it at the lowest possible price. And when the arbs buy in his wake, they push the stock price up. While Simmons was camouflaging his intentions, he was profiting from the arbs by selling shares at the top. ''I'm not out to make the arbs a buck,'' says Simmons. ''In fact, I'd just as soon they lost some money. If they lose money, they'll stay away from me.''
The arbs had been there before. They had lost many a dollar at the hands of raiders who bailed out instead of following through to capture their target companies. But on the face of it, Simmons was different. Over the years, he had actually taken over several of the companies whose stock he pursued. What's more, he had finished the process of integrating NL Industries, his latest purchase, into Valhi, his $2.25-billion Dallas-based holding company. ''I think we can make a $2 billion acquisition,'' he said. ''But we would have to borrow a lot of that.''
So the watchers were confident that he would pounce. But where? As this magazine went to press, the answer was uncertain. Said Charles A. Leeds Jr., director of risk arbitrage at the Wall Street firm of Balis & Zorn and a Simmons watcher: ''All I know is that he's lined up six ducks, and he's going to have duck for dinner. I don't know which one he's going to shoot.''
THERE IS NOTHING spare about the suite of offices Harold Simmons occupies on the 17th floor of a modern glass office building in north Dallas. Dark paneling frames the blue fabric wall covering; bronze statues of cowboys on horses, including several Remingtons, prance across the rooms, which were decorated by his third wife, Annette. Simmons sits behind a capacious mahogany desk. The Quotron he monitors glows on the nearby credenza; tucked inside are the financial publications he pores over in search of bargains.
Simmons is a Texas country boy, raised in Golden, population 200, and he seems out of place amid the splendor. Texas boasts a special breed of entrepreneur - big, bluff, charismatic men who spin yarns and fill a room with their laughter. Simmons is not of their number. Tall, slim, soft-spoken and reserved, he never laughs and seldom smiles. He sits with his feet on the desk, but he does not seem to be a person at ease with himself or others. In all, an unlikely combination of Gary Cooper and Woody Allen.
Simmons grew up about 80 miles east of Dallas in a house that had no indoor plumbing. His parents were public school teachers, and he was a serious student, earning a Phi Beta Kappa key at the University of Texas at Austin, where he majored in economics. He received a master's degree in agricultural economics at the same school in 1952.
By that time, Simmons had already married his first wife and fathered the first of his four daughters. ''All of a sudden,'' he says, ''I realized that money was more important than I earlier thought.'' He took the first job he could get, as an investigator with the United States Civil Service, but from the start his sights were set on banking.
If he were going to make real money, Simmons decided, he would have to be willing to take on plenty of debt. ''Banks were the most highly leveraged thing I saw,'' he says. ''They borrowed most of their money and really didn't need much equity except for purposes of public confidence.'' In fact, small Texas banks could be bought entirely with borrowed money. And he figured that after he bought one bank, he would, as he put it, ''buy a bunch, because one bank could be used to finance another. All debt and no equity.''
Simmons saw the possibilities in managing capital. ''Small banks in Texas were casual about getting the maximum use of their funds,'' he says. ''They had a general rule of thumb: one-third in cash, one-third in government bonds, one-third in loans. They were leaving so much money on the table.''
When he was laid off from his Civil Service job, Simmons gained access to the banking world as an examiner with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in Dallas. Eleven months later, he quit. At the age of 25, he arranged to borrow enough money to buy a small-town bank. He says he got so depressed by the ''backwater town'' that he called the deal off.
Instead, Simmons enrolled in one bank training program, then another, and ended up as a loan officer. He was far from content. But the Federal Government had passed a law allowing small-business investment companies to borrow up to $300,000, and Simmons joined with two of the bank's customers to organize such a company.
''My boss called me on the carpet,'' Simmons recalls, ''and said, 'What the hell are you doing, running your own bank on the side?' '' The choice: give up the deal or leave the bank. He left. Simmons and his partners found an investment opportunity in Nashville, Ind. ''It was a little bitty bank,'' he says. ''About $1 million in assets and we paid about $60,000 for it.'' When they sold the bank, they walked away with a profit of $50,000.
With his share, Simmons in 1961 bought a drugstore in Dallas, and ran it himself, all the while studying the business press and financial reports in search of another deal. He was especially intrigued with the exploits of Dallas's conglomerate king, James J. Ling, who was building Ling-Temco-Vought, which later became LTV. At one point, Simmons and his younger brother, Douglas, put on their best suits and went to see Ling to suggest that he buy the Bath Iron Works, a ship builder in Maine. Ling passed.
The drugstore flourished (''It was a little gold mine,'' Simmons says) and in 1966 he bought the Williams Drug Company, a seven-store chain in Waco, with nothing down and a $650,000 loan backed by a bank and a regional drug wholesaler. Acquisitions of four other drugstore chains followed until, two years later, Simmons owned 100 stores. He also started Contran, a holding company that he still owns, and he bought three insurance companies - two in Texas, Dealers National and Liberty Universal, and another, Fidelity General, in Illinois - plus a finance company.
In 1973, his Dallas drugstore chain attracted a $50 million offer, to be paid in stock, from the Jack Eckerd Corporation, a major drugstore chain. Under an agreement with Eckerd, Simmons was required to hold the stock for one year.
SIMMONS CALLS WHAT followed ''the dark days.'' State investigators accused him of looting and bankrupting his Texas insurance companies and he was hauled into court. In Chicago, he faced criminal charges including wire and mail fraud, as well as a civil suit in connection with the bankruptcy of his Illinois insurance company. In all cases, the courts found in his favor. But he says he lost $10 million on the three insurance companies and paid $2 million in legal fees.
Simmons' dark days were compounded by a dramatic plunge in the value of his Eckerd stock, from $50 million to $13 million. The banks called in his loans and canceled his credit cards.
James Ling had been forced to step down as C.E.O. of LTV in 1970. Four years later, he approached Simmons with an offer to go in as partners on some investments. Simmons declined. ''I don't have any partners,'' he says. ''I like to make all the decisions myself.'' Instead, he hired Ling to spend half his time working on Simmons' investments.
''He's an egomaniac,'' Ling says of Simmons. ''Most bright people are.''
IN 1975, SIMMONS BEGAN following Valhi, a Houston-based company that owned large tracts of farmland in California and Louisiana. Simmons bought control of the company for $7 million; he guessed that its assets might be worth $100 million. ''Gulf & Western and two others were looking at Valhi,'' says the 66-year-old Ling, ''and they couldn't react as quickly as Harold did.''
Says Simmons, ''The one thing you look for in picking stock is assets that are not earning their keep, that are not making their percentage of the cash flow.'' He pruned the deadwood from Valhi and subsumed the remainder of the company into Contran, his holding company.
Then Ling and a friend made a bid to take over Contran. Simmons won the proxy fight, and Ling was left with a considerable amount of stock in Contran that Simmons eventually bought. The two men split up and a trust, with Simmons as the sole trustee, now owns Contran.
Rich with cash from dealing away parts of Valhi, Simmons set off on a string of investments and acquisitions, including buying stock in PSA, Southwest, Ozark and Muse airlines. He felt that the planes were carried on the airlines' books at far less than they were worth. In 1982 he bought Amalgamated Sugar for $30 million, financing the move in part with help from the pension fund of Keystone Consolidated Industries, a steel-products company that he owned. He directed the pension fund to buy Amalgamated stock, but the bank managing the fund objected and a court-appointed receiver ordered the fund to dump the stock.
Simmons has, over the years, made some major gains with pure stock market plays. He bought 17.9 percent of the stock in GAF, the chemical and building materials company, in 1983, and realized a $140 million profit four years later on a $58 million investment. In 1985, he bought a $218 million stake in Sea-Land Corporation, held it for 11 months, and sold the stock for a gain of $83 million. Forbes magazine estimates Simmons' personal wealth today at $1.9 billion.
In 1986, Simmons acquired control of NL Industries, a New York City-based chemical and oil-service company. ''We had an interesting problem,'' said Ilan Kaufthal, who was then the C.F.O. of NL and is now a managing director for Wertheim Schroder & Company, a New York investment bank. ''Our oil service company was having a hard time, but the chemical company was doing well. NL was trading for less than the sum of its parts.''
It was a perfect Simmons target. He accumulated 15 percent of NL and in April wrote a letter offering to buy the company at 15 1/8. When NL instituted a poison pill, Simmons continued to buy until he owned 20 percent. When NL refused to remove the poison pill, he challenged the company in Federal court and won.
Simmons claims that he got NL for about $735 million. It took him two years to untangle the defenses that management had put in place to thwart him. Simmons renamed one part of NL the Baroid Corporation. Two months ago, Simmons decided to merge NL into Valhi.
Today, Simmons owns five homes, including a 24-acre estate in Santa Barbara which he purchased from the actor Gene Hackman. He spends a couple of weeks at a stretch there, flying his own Falcon 50 twin jet back and forth from Dallas. Last year, he pledged $41 million to the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School. Much of the money will go for research into arthritis, from which Simmons suffers.
''I come in at 9 o'clock and work until 3 o'clock. I'm really not working that hard,'' he insists. After his market moves of the last year, however, his watchers in the investment community might find that hard to believe.
 
LOCKHEED
On Dec. 7, 1988, Simmons made a Hart-Scott-Rodino filing requesting clearance to buy in excess of 15 percent of Lockheed. The documents stated that he already owned 375,000 shares, or less than 1 percent, of Lockheed.
Hart-Scott-Rodino filings give Federal regulators a chance to look for possible antitrust violations. The documents are not public. Nevertheless, Lockheed soon announced the filing. The watchers viewed Simmons' move with some suspicion. ''When you're going up against Lockheed,'' says Guy Wyser-Pratte, the director of risk arbitrage at Prudential-Bache Securities, ''you're going up against the establishment.'' Some believed that Simmons was simply trying to push the stock price up, hoping to make a killing.
As it happened, Lockheed's stock did rise in the days after his filing. Arbitrageurs are tempted to follow in the footsteps of raiders like Simmons, Pickens, Icahn and the Bass Brothers. ''These guys have outperformed the Dow at 2-to-1 or better,'' says Mark Les, a trader who publishes The Insider Transactions Report from Newport Beach, Calif.
''Pickens had a modus operandi that was logical, deliberate and discernible,'' according to one arbitrageur, ''and you could put odds on the way things might turn out. But with Simmons, it's more of a crap shoot.'' Simmons, however, was not seen as another Donald Trump, a player whose moves infrequently end up with a purchase.
On March 31 Simmons filed a 13-D report with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which requires notification within 10 days after an investor's purchases reach 5 percent of a company's stock. Additional reports are required when a stake is increased or reduced another 1 percent. The information in these filings, including the investor's stated reasons for the stock purchase or sale, is made available in the S.E.C.'s public document room.
Simmons' filing reported that he had acquired a 5.3 percent stake in Lockheed, including 3.1 million shares bought at prices ranging from 43 1/2 to 48 7/8. On April 4 Lockheed announced a restructuring that included the creation of an employee stock ownership plan - a move that, by putting shares in the hands of employees, makes a takeover of the company more difficult.
Simmons responded immediately, expressing his disappointment over the E.S.O.P. The next day he informed the S.E.C that he had lowered his Lockheed stake from 5.3 to 4.2 percent by selling off 200,000 shares. Had he lost interest in Lockheed? The question was answered on June 9, when yet another filing indicated that he had raised his stake to 6.25 percent.
In Kansas City, Mo., 37-year-old Michael W. Lamb had been watching. He runs Wealth Monitors, which encompasses a monthly newsletter and an investment fund. The fund is dedicated to matching the moves of 27 raiders, including Simmons. According to Lipper Analytical Services, the fund currently ranks in the bottom 20 percent of the equity and fixed-income mutual funds that Lipper tracks.
Lamb says Simmons' initial purchase of Lockheed stock had intrigued him. ''I'd been waiting for two years for him to make a move,'' he recalls. Lamb had not been put off the scent by Simmons' retreat. He reasoned that Simmons might be moving below the 5-percent S.E.C. threshold so that he would not have to file a report of any possible agreement he might reach with Lockheed. ''He wanted to be in the shadows,'' says Lamb.
Along the way, Lamb says that Simmons revealed that he had received Hart-Scott-Rodino clearance to buy up to 15 percent of Paccar, a truck manufacturer, and Phelps Dodge, a copper mining company. On May 23, he had sought approval to buy a $15 million stake in Chicago-based Inland Steel Industries. Lamb was not impressed by these moves. But he was galvanized by Simmons' June 9 Lockheed filing. He recommended a Lockheed buy. The stock was then trading at 49.
It seemed to Lamb that Lockheed must be the real target. ''Simmons was sitting there with $200-and-some million worth,'' he says. What's more, Lockheed had a quality Simmons was known to admire - a steady cash flow as the result of long-term Government contracts.
Over the following months, Simmons increased his stake in Lockheed and on Sept. 29 he reported that he held 10.43 percent. Under securities law, that made him an insider and subject to a more stringent set of regulations. If he sold the stock within six months, for example, he would have to return any short-term profits to the company. As one Simmons watcher said at the time: ''He's no longer a trader. He's either an investor or an acquisitor.''
On Oct. 6, Simmons was interviewed by The Los Angeles Daily News, but the article was not printed until Sunday, Oct. 15, two days after the Friday-the-13th stock market drop. Lockheed, which had traded as high as 54 3/4 at the beginning of September, had already been falling; on Oct. 13 it closed at 48. In the article Simmons was reported to be dumping his Lockheed shares. He was quoted as saying, ''Put it in big black letters and underline it.'' But the next day, in a Simmons 13-D filing, it was revealed that several of his companies had, on the 13th, bought 1,227,000 shares of Lockheed, at prices ranging from 47 1/8 to 48.
A later 13-D included a press release from Valhi. It claimed that Simmons had made the comments about selling Lockheed ''in jest'' and that they did not ''accurately reflect'' his intentions. Michael Lamb scoffed, ''He was trying to put out misinformation.'' Another watcher commented that, if Simmons had indeed been joking, ''It was a rather silly joke.'' Nor was the S.E.C. amused by what seemed, on the face of it, an attempt to manipulate the market. The commission got in touch with Simmons' lawyers that week, asking, in effect: What's going on?
 
INLAND STEEL
In New York City, Charles Leeds, the director of risk arbitrage at Balis & Zorn, had been doubtful about Lockheed. But when he learned on May 25 that Simmons had filed on Inland Steel, Leeds got excited. Six days later he issued a written report to clients recommending the stock. ''I fell in love with the company,'' he says. ''Every now and then I see a company that I would buy for my children and grandchildren, and Inland was one of those companies.''
As he saw it, Inland fit perfectly into Simmons' style. Like so many of the raider's acquisitions, the company was in a nuts-and-bolts business. It was cyclical - like many of Simmons' companies. And, best of all, for a value hound like Simmons, its shares were out of favor.
Leeds also thought he saw a possible parallel with Simmons' Sea-Land play. Moreover, there was a potential white knight. ''Inland has a joint venture agreement with Nippon Steel,'' says Leeds. ''If Simmons launched a takeover in the high 50's, I think Nippon would pay $60 plus and everyone would walk away happy.''
It all sounded plausible enough, and the stock had abruptly started to climb. But not everyone was playing. Among the doubters was Wyser-Pratte of Prudential-Bache. His analysis: ''There's no reason for us to get excited that he's out there kicking tires. Simmons is very manipulative.''
 
GEORGIA GULF
Simmons had yet another target in mind. On June 20, he filed a 13-D showing that he had bought 8.3 percent of Georgia Gulf Corporation, the Atlanta-based chemical company. When 34-year-old Joseph M. Sheer, the manager of risk arbitrage at McKinley Allsopp in New York, saw the news flash across his computer screen, he recalls, he pulled out his Standard & Poor's tear sheets and Value Line guide.
Georgia Gulf had qualities that Simmons admired. Previously a part of the Georgia-Pacific Corporation, a building-products company, Georgia Gulf had little long-term debt. ''There was plenty of opportunity to sell off assets and leverage up the remaining company,'' Sheer says, just as Simmons had done before. Like NL Industries, another chemical company, Georgia Gulf was in a cyclical industry - though, as it happened, the industry was at the top of its cycle - not a Simmons turn-on.
But Sheer waited, and on July 25 Simmons filed seeking clearance to buy up to 15 percent of the company. A 13-D filing that same day revealed that, over the previous weeks, he had been picking up Georgia Gulf for about 38 a share. His stake stood at 9.4 percent. That day, the stock was selling at around 40.
A month later, J. Landis Martin, C.E.O. of NL Industries, wrote a letter to James R. Kuse, Georgia Gulf's C.E.O. The letter suggested that ''the value of Georgia Gulf's common shares would be enhanced by a transaction in which shareholders receive $55 per share in cash.'' Did it represent a serious offer for the company? Not according to Sheer. But many an arb believed that Georgia Gulf was now clearly in play - that it would eventually be bought by another company or forced to borrow and pay stockholders a special dividend to prevent a takeover. The stock shot up past $55 a share. Over the next 18 days, the stock passed 59 as Simmons threatened to seek removal of Georgia Gulf's directors. Kuse consulted with investment bankers Goldman, Sachs & Company and announced that Georgia Gulf was considering selling out to another suitor. Simmons responded by reducing his stake from 9.9 percent to 8.9 percent, and the next day the stock price dropped to 52 1/8.
Sheer could no longer resist, and he bought. Georgia Gulf, he felt, would have to do something, and that something would amount to $60 a share. ''I got involved when they gave Goldman the mandate to maximize shareholder value,'' Sheer says. ''Basically that kept the downside way down. I got in lower and had less risk, which is a great combination and a rare one.''
Two weeks later, Simmons made an actual offer to acquire Georgia Gulf, but at a price of $50 a share, down $5 from his previous, ambiguous bid, and the offer included a string of tough demands. It was spurned by Kuse and viewed by many arbs as simply an effort to increase the pressure on Georgia Gulf, not a serious tender offer.
AS THE FIRST WEEKS OF November passed, the riddle remained unsolved. Did Simmons really intend to buy another company? If so, which? He wasn't saying, and his watchers were still not sure.
In fact, he's not so sure himself. ''People don't understand how my mind works,'' Simmons says. ''I have no long-term plans that I think are going to work out a certain way. I'm prepared to go a number of different ways. They don't understand that the world is a new place every day.''

GRAPHIC: Photo montage with Harold C. Simmons (Brad Trent/Outline; Roy Weiman) (pg. 19); Harold C. Simmons (The New York Times/Rebecca Skelton) (pg. 71); stock prices of Lockheed, Inland Steel and Georgia Gulf, Dec. 1988-Oct. 1989 (Source: Interactive Data) (pg. 73)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCAR (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS332322 SHEET METAL WORK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: RYERSON HOLDING CORP (58%); PACCAR INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); RISK ARBITRAGE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); 

PERSON: BANCROFT, BILL; SIMMONS, HAROLD C; SIMMONS, HAROLD C (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) CARL ICAHN (88%); 



63 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 17, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 4414 words

HEADLINE: The Banker Who Would Be Scrooge

BYLINE: By Robert A. Bennett; Robert A. Bennett is the editor of the United States Banker, a monthly magazine.

 BODY:
AT 10 O'CLOCK ON THE MORNING OF OCT. 17, CARL E. REICHARDT, the chairman and chief executive of Wells Fargo & Company, presided over a meeting of the board of directors in the Sheraton Grand Hotel in Los Angeles. He had nothing but good news to report for the third quarter. Net income would be strong (the final figures showed it at $153.7 million, a 17-percent rise over the 1988 figure) and costs, one of the chairman's obsessions, were well in hand.
That afternoon, Reichart flew home to San Francisco, where the bank is based. He had an appointment with some customers at the Pacific Stock Exchange, just down the block from Wells Fargo. At 5:04 he was walking alone across the exchange lobby when the earthquake hit.
The building shook, papers flew about - and Reichardt ducked under a table. ''I've been through these things before,'' he recalls, ''but this was the worst I ever experienced. When it stopped, my first thought was to get back to the bank.'' As it happened, the Wells Fargo headquarters on Montgomery Street was undamaged - even the big plate glass windows that front on the entrance, with its stagecoach museum, were still intact - and no one there had been injured. ''We were real lucky,'' Reichardt says. 
For those who know him, the image of the barrel-chested 58-year-old banker scrambling to get under a table has a special resonance. It was a reasonable reaction, and that comports with the common-sense, matter-of-fact nature of the man. But it was hardly typical of the aggressive way in which he has confronted and overwhelmed the problems and challenges of his career. As one of his admirers commented, ''It took an earthquake.''
Reichardt and his bank - the 11th largest in the nation, with assets of $48.5 billion - are on the cutting edge of a revolution that is transforming banking. When Reichardt became C.E.O. in 1983, the industry was still basically organized along traditional lines: thousands of relatively small local and regional banks; a half-dozen huge money-center banks, like Citicorp and BankAmerica, and a handful of smaller second-tier banks, like Wells Fargo. The money-center banks prided themselves on being ''all things to all people,'' serving as bankers to their smaller counterparts, underwriting the economies of less developed countries around the world. By today's standards, profits were minuscule - some 60 cents on each $100 of assets.
That picture has changed dramatically. Racked by losses on their overseas loans, the big banks have moved to narrow their focus, sloughing off money-losing divisions and slashing expenses. At many banks, profits have soared. Meanwhile, the erosion of the laws and traditions that maintained a gentlemanly status quo has unleashed a wave of mergers. More than any other banker, Reichardt has led the way.
Since taking over Wells Fargo, he has written off the bank's foreign loans, presided over the purchase of several California banks and dropped dozens of marginal operations - all in a single-minded pursuit of profit. According to J. Richard Fredericks, a bank-stock analyst for Montgomery Securities in San Francisco, ''Reichardt has shown the industry the difference between fit and fat. I don't know another C.E.O. so maniacally shareholder-driven.'' During his seven-year reign, Wells Fargo's annual rate of return to shareholders -stock appreciation plus dividends - has averaged a remarkable 33.5 percent.
But part of his success has stemmed from a series of calculated risks. No other major bank has plunged so deeply into loans for both construction and real estate development and for leveraged-buyouts. And some analysts worry that the bank's all-but-total concentration on the rich California market would leave it particularly vulnerable to an economic downturn in the state. But for Reichardt, California is the world. Says Lawrence W. Cohn, a bank analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert, ''Wells Fargo is the best-managed, imprudent bank I've ever seen.''
THE WELLS FARGO of today is a far cry from the bank presided over by Richard P. Cooley, Reichardt's predecessor - and the two men, themselves, are worlds apart. Cooley, now the C.E.O. of the SeaFirst Bank, a subsidiary of BankAmerica, is in many ways the epitome of the traditional leader of the nation's major banks - a product of Ivy League schools (Yale, in his case), a sophisticated internationalist, more statesman than businessman. Reichardt calls Cooley ''a gentleman of the old school.'' How would he describe himself? ''Oh, God,'' he replies, ''I'm certainly not a gentleman. They don't produce them where I come from.''
Reichardt was born in Houston, where his father was a hotel manager. ''We were middle class,'' he says, ''but I always had some kind of job. When I was 12 years old I worked in a lumber company that builds houses, and I did that for years.'' Reichardt enrolled at the University of Houston, but when the Korean War draft loomed, he enlisted in the Navy and was stationed in Long Beach, Calif. The climate was a welcome change from the humid furnace of Houston (''I thought the whole world was like that,'' he says), and after leaving the service he decided to stay put.
In 1954, while earning his bachelor's degree in economics at the University of Southern California, he got his first taste of banking in a training program with Citizens Bank in Los Angeles. (''I've come full circle,'' he points out - Citizens was eventually acquired by Crocker, which in turn was bought by Wells Fargo.) After six years with Citizens, he joined Union Bank.
Harry J. Volk, the C.E.O. of Union, was something of a maverick in the business. As in matters of life style, California has often been an innovator in banking. It was Volk, for example, who spotted the loophole in Federal laws that made it possible for banks to form holding companies. Unlike most of its competitors, Union was not interested in providing a broad range of services. It concentrated, very profitably, on lending to small and medium-sized businesses. And Volk was a militant marketer. ''Harry called me in one day,'' Reichardt recalls, ''and he told me, 'Carl, you may be a great banker, but you've got to learn to sell.' Most bankers had the idea, you sit there and customers come in and you sort of judge them. Harry said that was all wrong - that you had to go out and drag them in. I still believe that.''
A good part of Reichardt's time with Union was spent making loans to real estate developers and commercial builders. That was the expertise Wells Fargo was looking for when it hired him away from Union in 1970 to organize a real estate investment trust and the bank unit that would advise the trust. As Reichardt is quick to point out, the trust was publicly owned, and he was given 12.5 percent of the advisory unit. ''I didn't come to Wells Fargo just for an exercise in changing banks,'' he says. ''I came to run the company and, more important, to own a part of it.''
Reichardt soon made his presence felt. He is by all accounts a demanding master, although easy and friendly enough with colleagues who perform up to his standards. Others don't last long. ''Reichardt and Patton would understand each other,'' says Andy Anderson, the bank's historian, who runs the extensive Western library in the bank's headquarters. ''Both are known for being earthy and saying exactly what they mean.'' Reichardt, however, does not generally give way to Patton-like tantrums. He simply, in Anderson's words, ''communicates directly and forcibly.''
When he moved to Wells Fargo, Reichardt brought with him a Union Bank colleague named Paul Hazen, a slim, soft-spoken man 10 years his junior, who has since moved up through the ranks of Wells Fargo in lockstep with Reichardt and is now president of both the holding company and the bank. As Hazen remembers those early days, ''They dumped on us a huge amount of capital, nearly $70 million, but there was no infrastructure, there were no employees. We had to decide who to hire, what their characteristics should be. My yellow pad was the balance sheet. So we learned what it takes to run a business, and it was a foundation for running a big company.''
Reichardt and Hazen were constantly on the road together, and they passed the time playing gin. They kept a running score. They still play when they travel, and Hazen says he has a briefcase full of records of their games. ''We speculate on who's the better player,'' he says, ''but we never have added it up.'' When a visitor suggested it was a rare example of their not watching the bottom line, Hazen laughingly agreed.
Over the years, the two men have developed remarkably similar views on business issues, to the degree that they consciously seek out executives with different backgrounds and expertise. Both cite 43-year-old William Zuendt, the vice chairman in charge of retail banking, as a prime example. Zuendt earned his bachelor's degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in mathematics and is the bank's resident authority on computer systems. But he has learned the hard way to practice his skills in the Reichardt mode.
Some years ago, the bank set about designing a branch-automation system. ''We built and built,'' Reichardt says, ''and the system had a lot of bells and whistles, but it was terribly unreliable. Finally I said to Bill, 'I want something that works, goddammit. I'm fed up with bells and whistles. What I want is a DC-3 with an extra motor.' '' The bank ended up scrapping the system in favor of a simpler version, but not before the project had cost millions of extra dollars. Today, says the chairman approvingly, ''Bill is not trying to have the neatest machines on the block. He's applying technology in a cost-effective way.''
CARL REICHARDT AS SCROOGE:
* Over the decades, the bank has always set up a big Christmas tree on the 12th floor where the executives hold forth. Last year Reichardt cut the item from the budget. It was a waste of money, he said, because so few customers ever made their way to the 12th floor. Several vice chairman chipped in to buy a tree.
* An officer of the bank wanted draperies for his windows. Reichardt called him in for a talk, and spent the whole time wiggling in his chair, pulling stuffing from a hole in the upholstery. The officer got the message.
* A female visitor to the 12th floor caught her heel in a well-worn carpet. She jokingly suggested to the chairman that he had taken symbolism too far - that the liabilities that might accrue to the bank from someone tripping on the carpet would far exceed the cost of buying a new one. The carpet was replaced.
''We do have almost a fetish about this expense control thing,'' Reichardt allows. He is seated at his desk in a spacious office hung with Western art. A round-faced man with slicked-back hair, he talks easily, a jovial good-ole-boy. Cuss words punctuate an endless string of anecdotes (''I'm accused of managing by vignette,'' he says).
But he's not kidding about controlling costs, and his iron determination can take its human toll. Since becoming chairman in 1983, he has closed dozens of operations that failed to meet his high profit goals and laid off thousands of employees of Wells Fargo and the banks he has acquired. He believes his approach is better for both those who leave - they can find jobs where they will be appreciated - and those who remain with the bank. In today's banking industry, he says, with its consolidations and ever-growing competition, only the toughest and most profitable banks will survive.
His policies have earned him and his bank a reputation for ruthlessness. Last spring, the decision was made to open Wells Fargo's 456 branch offices on Saturdays, from 9 A.M. to 1 P.M. The bank sent employees an ultimatum in the form of a document they were asked to sign, agreeing to take their turn working on that day. Those who refused to sign would be dismissed. Almost 300 people, 5 percent of the branch staff, left the bank.
''I'm not sure making them sign a paper was the right thing to do,'' Reichardt allows, but he insists that the pressure to open Saturdays, and to extend weekday hours, as well, came not from him but from the branches ''Let me give you a vignette,'' he says. ''We give the people in our branches a great deal of flexibility. Over a year ago, people in Sacramento decided to open 9 to 6 , instead of 10 to 4 All of a sudden, that division started winning all the contests within the bank, getting the bonuses. You know, they're all on incentives. Pretty soon the other divisions were doing the same thing. We picked up market share, and our new accounts went up dramatically. When the local press took this ultimatum thing and twisted it around, I sat down with some branch managers and asked them, 'What is your feeling?' Well, they said, 'Mr. Reichardt, we're in the retail business, and we've got to stay open for our customers, not our convenience.' ''
Branch managers can rack up huge bonuses. Consider Evelyn Peinado, 43, who runs the San Ramon office and last year received more money in bonuses than any other manager in northern California. She declined to specify the amount. Asked if it was about $100,000, she responded: ''I'm almost up to that now, and it's only August.'' She was in San Francisco shopping for a Jaguar. In his experience, says Reichardt, ''A woman is a much better salesperson at retail than a man.''
THE ROOTS OF WELLS FARGO stretch back to a winter's day in 1848 when gold was discovered at Sutter's Mill. Over the next four years, the non-Indian population of California rocketed from 15,000 to more than 250,000. In New York, Henry Wells and William G. Fargo, who were among the founders of the American Express Company in 1850, saw a way to hitch their wagon to the Gold Rush. In 1852 they founded Wells, Fargo & Co. - a stagecoach express to carry mail to the gold fields, a bank to handle the miners' finds.
Soon the company became an integral part of California legend. In the 1860's, Charles T. Blake, a Wells Fargo agent, described his arrival at a gold camp: ''I heard a shout taken up and repeated through the whole town. 'Wells Fargo have come.' In less than three minutes I was surrounded by an excited crowd of two or three hundred men, who hardly allowed me time to get my saddle off from my mule.'' A counter had been set up, a pair of scales produced, and Blake was taking deposits of gold.
Over the years, the stagecoach was replaced by railroad cars, and during World War I, Washington folded all the major express companies into the American Railway Express. The bank changed too. By the time Carl Reichardt took command in 1983, for example, it had billions of dollars in outstanding loans to the third world. He soon concluded that foreign banking was not going to meet his profit goals.
Reichardt set about stripping away Wells Fargo's international structure. Over the years, he shut down all the bank's overseas offices, even those on the Pacific Rim, a natural market for a big California bank. (To accommodate customers who want to do business in Asia, last April he signed a reciprocal agreement with the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.) While the money-center banks were drastically increasing their reserves against possible losses in their third-world loan portfolios, Reichardt went a giant step beyond, writing off the lion's share the loans; those left on the bank's books now total $93 million, a minute .2 percent of the loan portfolio.
That put Wells Fargo's focus back where Reichardt wanted it, on California, which he calls ''the best banking market in the world.'' With its broad mix of industry, from agriculture to high technology to defense, the huge state's economy has been less susceptible to recession than most other areas of the country. The civil usury laws that held interest down elsewhere were unknown in California; unlike banks in the East, those in California were free to set up branches all across the state. There emerged an oligopoly of sorts, five dominant banks that could pay less for deposits and charge higher rates on loans than was true in much of the rest of the nation. And they created huge networks of branches serving millions of loyal customers - what Paul Hazen calls ''the franchise.'' A few years ago, the largest of the five, BankAmerica, was reeling because of losses on agriculture and real estate loans. ''It was almost as though someone had designed a plan to see if you could destroy a retail banking franchise,'' Hazen says. ''Yet they only lost maybe 2 percent of their market share.''
Reichardt has spent his years as chairman chopping off marginally profitable operations - selling the corporate trust department to Manufacturers Hanover, liquidating the finance company subsidiary. The bank created the nation's largest indexed trading fund, investing in a broad cross section of stocks that closely reflect the stocks in such benchmarks as the Standard & Poor's 500. The $70 billion invested in the fund made it the single largest player in the stock market. But last June the bank sold a half interest in the operation to Tokyo-based Nikko Securities Company for $125 million. ''The growth in the U.S. was behind us,'' says Hazen, ''and we had created real economic value with little capital investment. We were looking for future growth.'' So the bank found a partner in Japan, where index trading is in its infancy, and at the same time cashed out some of the value it had built.
In at least one instance, Reichardt's axe came close to costing Wells Fargo a bundle. Early in his reign, the chairman wanted to get rid of the bank's laggard consumer business. According to sources close to the bank, Zuendt talked him out of it. Consumers now account for 19 percent of the bank's earnings.
As a matter of business philosophy, Carl Reichardt is no fan of the widespread trend in recent years to take public companies private -a process often accomplished through highly leveraged buyouts. He says he would not consider it in the case of Wells Fargo: ''It's very complicated, and you have to ask yourself, if you know how to do all these things privately, why aren't you doing it publicly?'' As a matter of business practice, however, his bank has sunk $3.2 billion in loans to L.B.O.'s - a greater commitment in relation to equity than any big bank in the country except for Bank of New York.
It is, on the face of it, a risky move. Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, is one of many authorities who fear that, should a recession strike, the debt-laden L.B.O.'s might be forced to default on their loans.
''I happen to like these assets,'' Reichardt insists. He also likes the high yields. He says the bank has carefully analyzed each situation and that, in any event, it has invested only in senior debt. In other words, for Wells Fargo to take a loss on the loans, the owners of the company's stock and holders of its subordinated debt would have to be wiped out. In addition, the bank has liens on the real assets of the companies - factories and equipment.
In reshaping Wells Fargo's loan portfolio, Reichardt has also played to his own strengths. Loans for construction and real estate development are just shy of $7 billion, more than 18 percent of the total loan portfolio. Once again, many analysts warn that he has taken on a substantial risk: a severe drop in the California real estate market could prove disastrous. But the bank's loss record in construction loans, the chairman points out, has been substantially better over the last 14 years than its overall loss record. And even his critics and competitors admit that, for expertise in real estate, he and Hazen have few peers in the banking business.
They also acknowledge that Wells Fargo, under Reichardt, has become the most efficient big bank in the country. He has presided over a host of innovations, including a 24-hour telephone banking service that receives 75,000 calls a day. For the bank, transactions are considerably less expensive by phone than at a branch office. And the bank's 18,700 employees are highly motivated. ''I'm proud of this,'' he says, pointing to a list showing the average compensation received by employees of the major California banks. Wells Fargo leads the pack. At the same time, the bank has the best efficiency ratio, measuring operating expense against taxable revenue. ''We're viewed as hard-hearted and all this stuff,'' Reichardt says, ''but you can see that our people are being rewarded because they're productive. And that to me is the right way to go.''
LONG BEFORE THE SUN RISES over the town of Belvedere, across the bay from San Francisco, Carl Reichardt begins his day. ''I get up about 4:30,'' he says. ''I don't need more than five and a half hours sleep.'' He breakfasts on grapefruit and coffee and chats with Patricia, his wife of 35 years. They have three children - Carl Jr., 24, works for a California real estate developer, and Gretchen, 22, works in an East Coast bank; Fritz, 20, is still in college.
One of the chairman's few indulgences is a chauffeured Lincoln Town Car. It deposits him at the bank between 6 and 6:30 A.M., but Paul Hazen usually beats him in by a few minutes. Reichardt reads the newspapers and then wanders in to Hazen's office for a cup of coffee. ''We'll talk about anything,'' Hazen says, ''from what's happening in the Baltic states to Voyager.'' Most of Reichardt's day is spent in one-on-one conversations with staff and customers - ''We don't have a lot of formal meetings.'' Then it's back to Belvedere and a library of history books. ''I think the last movie I saw voluntarily was 'Patton,' '' he says. He sees others ''involuntarily'' on planes.
The odds are that not a few of those morning talks with Hazen are devoted to the subject of expansion. Since taking over as chairman, Reichardt has been in hot pursuit of market share. Wells Fargo stunned the banking community in 1986 when it acquired the San Francisco-based Crocker National Corporation, one of California's five largest banks, for $1.1 billion. At the time, the notion of one major bank buying another in the same city was unheard of. It is now, a notable example being Bank of New York's takeover of Irving Bank last year. In 1988, Wells Fargo bought the Barclay's Bank of California, San Francisco's third largest, for $125 million.
Reichardt's current preoccupation is to increase his bank's share of the consumer market in Southern California. He has purchased three smaller banks there, but he has a long way to go. He faces two formidable competitors that are firmly entrenched in the south. BankAmerica, based in San Francisco, has assets of $82.9 billion and 975 branches all across the state. And Security Pacific, headquartered in Los Angeles, has $48.9 billion in assets and 575 branches.
The chairman's southern strategy envisions the eventual acquisition of fourth-ranking First Interstate, a Los Angeles-based company with assets of $20.5 billion and 320 branches. ''It would be of great interest to us,'' he says. And he has his eye on some Southern California savings-and-loan banks as well. Recent laws passed to bail out the thrift industry apparently make it possible for the first time for commercial banks to acquire healthy S. & L.'s.
Wells Fargo has shown considerable interest in buying banking properties outside California, notably in Texas. It was outbid for First RepublicBank, of Dallas, and it explored a bid for Dallas-based MCorp. ''We would be very interested in Arizona, Oregon, some of the other Western states, as well as Texas,'' Reichardt says. Yet he has often refused to pay what it takes today to acquire major companies. ''At some point prices become irrational, and that's the point to stop bidding,'' he says - even as he admits that may not be the best long-term strategy.
In 1992, Wells Fargo and the other expansion-minded California banks could find the tables turned when, for the first time, banks in other parts of the country will be permitted to open full-service offices in the state. Reichardt does not expect a ''vast invasion.'' The big East Coast banks already have lending operations in California. For them to compete across the board, he says, would require a huge investment. ''They're going to have to finance an acquisition with common equity, and how many have the ammunition, i.e., the stock price?'' Federal regulators have begun to insist that banks issue new stock to finance acquisitions of other banks. So, the higher the would-be purchaser's stock price, the less equity the bank must issue to clinch the deal.
For Reichardt, the acquisitor, the fact that bank stocks, his own included, are so low compared to the prices of industrial shares is a source of continuing frustration - and anger. ''We've been in business for 137 years,'' he says, ''and to the best of my knowledge this company's never lost money. It bugs the hell out of me that the industrials are on average selling at 12 times earnings, and here's a company that has a great deal of predictability, selling at seven or eight times earnings.''
In fact, Wells Fargo shares, which have been trading at around 78, have a higher price-to-earnings ratio than most other bank stocks. One reason they are not doing even better, according to several analysts, is a concern in the investment community about the bank's huge portfolio of L.B.O. loans. During the brief market break last October 13, occasioned by a glitch in the proposed United Airlines L.B.O. deal, Wells Fargo stock fell 3 3/4 points.
By virtually every banking yardstick, the team of Reichardt and Hazen has been a resounding success. For the third quarter of 1989, for example, according to Montgomery Securities, Wells Fargo had a return on assets of 1.4 percent, compared to a national average of .88 percent and a California average .94 percent. But the single quality that stands above all others is their unremitting attention to the bottom line.
The museum on the ground floor of Wells Fargo headquarters on Montgomery Street is chockablock with relics of the Old West - not just stagecoaches, but gold scales and and treasure boxes. ''It gets every high school civics class,'' says Paul Hazen. ''We don't try to justify it economically, but we believe it is supportive of our P. R. and our corporate image and our brand identity. Our history is very marketable.''

GRAPHIC: Carl Reichardt (pg. 17); Paul Hazen, the president of Wells Fargo & Company; William Zuendt, the vice chairman of retail banking (pg. 36); Evelyn Peinado, a Wells Fargo branch manager in San Ramon, Calif., and the Jaguar she bought with a portion of her 1989 bonus (pgs. 40) (Douglas Kirkland/Sygma); table lists leading banks in commercial real estate lending and leveraged buy-outs, showing total outstanding loans and loans as percentage of common equity (Source: Prudential-Bache Securities) (pg. 18); table shows Wells Fargo's financial status, Sept. 30 1988 vs. Sept. 30, 1989 (Source: Company reports) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (94%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); NYSE ARCA INC (56%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WELLS FARGO BANK

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; WELLS FARGO & CO; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); EARTHQUAKES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); FOREIGN LENDING (61%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (61%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, ROBERT A; REICHARDT, CARL E; REICHARDT, CARL E (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) CARL E REICHARDT (94%); 



64 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 28, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 3352 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OF THE BEAUTY COUNTER

BYLINE: By Patricia O'Toole; Patricia O'Toole is a Connecticut-based business writer.

 BODY:
PATRICIA FRENCH, THE founder and president of Gazelle International, a black-cosmetics company, makes no secret of her ambitions. She says she spent most of a recent flight from Paris to New York engrossed in a biography of Helena Rubinstein. As for her publicist's claim that French will be ''the next Estee Lauder,'' the 33-year-old former model and makeup consultant smiles and says, ''We all have to have a goal and a dream.''
As the careers of Estee Lauder and Helena Rubinstein so amply illustrate, the titans of the beauty business have most often been women. Now another generation of entrepreneurs - including French; Naomi Sims, a 70's supermodel, and Juin Rachele Cooper, a former cosmetics executive - have staked their hopes on a new and fast-growing segment of the market: the stylish, affluent black woman.
The road has not been smooth. Department stores, the traditional marketplace for upscale cosmetics, have been in the throes of consolidation, creating an unreceptive climate for any new product lines. Moreover, the established leaders in ethnic cosmetics - Flori Roberts Inc. and Fashion Fair Cosmetics, owned by the Johnson Publishing Company - are aggressively pursuing the same segment. So are such mainstream cosmetics giants as Avon Products, Estee Lauder Inc. and the Revlon Group. 
Small wonder. The potential rewards are substantial. In the last decade, the number of black women in the work force has grown by 35 percent, and their median weekly earnings have risen by 70 percent. In addition, blacks typically spend more on personal-care products, from mouthwash to cosmetics, than whites. ''If you're black, you are trying your very best to make sure there is no reason you might be disregarded or thought less of,'' explains Kathryn D. Leary, president of Jamison & Leary, a black-owned advertising agency in New York. Industry analysts predict that the market for black cosmetics, now at about $450 million a year, could soar to $990 million by 1995.
IT WAS NOT UNTIL 1967 THAT A cosmetics line for black women found its way into the prestige department store market, and the products were the creation of a 38-year-old white publicist named Flori Roberts. Two years before, at a fashion show in New York, Roberts had heard several black models discussing the tribulations of using makeup meant for white complexions. She was surprised to discover that the models were putting together their own foundations, powders, eye shadows and blushes, mixing and matching various brands and colors until they hit on shades that worked.
Back home in New Jersey, Roberts discussed the subject with her husband, Craig, an ophthalmologist with a subspecialty in plastic surgery who had studied the chemistry of black skin. She also began buttonholing dermatologists and beauticians to learn all she could about the properties of black skin.
Roberts found that all skins are chemically identical, except for the size of the granules of melanin, or dark pigment. But the mere fact of color creates a welter of distinctions. The darkness makes oily areas gleam, while dry patches tend to have an ashy appearance. And blemishes can often leave permanent spots that are particularly difficult to cover. Then there is the matter of ''black'' itself: the term embraces more than 30 skin tones that include the undertones of red, yellow, blue and black. The Caucasian palette has fewer hues, and less variation on undertones of red, yellow and brown. Because of that difference in undertones, foundations and powders blended for white skin tend to look orange or gray on black skin.
Black women have traditionally used cosmetics intended for white complexions, creating their own versions at home or buying them at the neighborhood beauty salon. A number of small firms offered cosmetics actually designed for black women, but distribution of their products was limited to beauty salons, drugstores and other mass-market outlets. Since 1970, several companies that marketed black hair-care products have entered the field, including World of Curls in Compton, Calif., and Chicago-based Johnson Products (no relation to Johnson Publishing).
After Flori Roberts had spent a few months asking questions, she engaged a laboratory to translate her findings into samples of a cleanser, a moisturizer and a full line of makeup. Because of the crucial matter of undertones, the samples were produced in a wide range of colors; they were also made oil free, to avoid the shiny effect of oil on black skin.
In 1966, Roberts founded Flori Roberts Inc. in Lakewood, N.J. Throughout the year, she toted her wares to conventions and black-owned salons, with no success. Then, in 1967, she began making the rounds of department stores. ''Buyers would say, 'Our black customers use the cosmetics we already have,' or 'Blacks don't shop in department stores,' '' she recalls. Roberts was convinced that if black consumers were not coming in, it was because they felt unwelcome.
Her breakthrough came that summer, when she finally placed her line at Bamberger's (now Macy's) in Newark. Black women flocked to the Flori Roberts counter. ''They couldn't believe we had foundations and lipsticks and eyeshadows in colors that were right for them,'' says Marion Boswell, a black woman who became Roberts's first beauty advisor. Strong sales at Bamberger's helped Roberts get into Burdine's in Miami, Burdine's led to Foley's in Houston and Flori Roberts Inc. had found its venue.
For six years, Roberts had the department-store market all to herself. Enter John H. Johnson, publisher of the Chicago-based Johnson Publishing Co. In 1973 Johnson asked Kolmar Laboratories, a cosmetics manufacturer in Milwaukee, to produce samples of a black-cosmetics line to be called Fashion Fair Cosmetics, and advertised it in Ebony. Within six months, the magazine had filled 100,000 orders. On the strength of that response, says J. Lance Clarke, vice president and general manager of Fashion Fair, a subsidiary of Johnson Publishing, Marshall Field agreed to carry the line, but without promotion. By month's end, Fashion Fair was selling briskly.
Though it took the new black-cosmetics line only two years to open 500 doors (in retailing, a ''door'' refers to a location where a product is sold), acceptance was not automatic. ''Department stores wanted us and they didn't want us,'' Clarke says. Many of the establishments that took a chance on the line were persuaded as much by Fashion Fair's ties to Johnson Publishing as by the cosmetics themselves - ties that gave Fashion Fair access to pages of free advertising and editorial support in Ebony and Jet.
For a time after Fashion Fair's start-up, Ebony stopped accepting Flori Roberts's ads. Roberts stepped up her campaign on black-radio stations; she was already a frequent advertiser in Essence, the leading magazine for black women. Both Roberts and Fashion Fair also held fashion shows with black sororities and other women's organizations and used increasingly sophisticated direct-mail campaigns to push beauty clinics and other in-store sales promotions.
The strategies seem to have paid off. By the middle of this year, Fashion Fair claimed to have 2,000 doors in the United States and Canada, and Flori Roberts, 1,200 in the United States. Both lines are sold in Europe, Africa, the Caribbean and Latin America. Fashion Fair's line has grown from 100 to 300 products; Flori Roberts now makes 170 items, up from 35. Industry sources put 1988 revenues for Fashion Fair at $60 million, and those for Roberts at $25 million.
BY THE EARLY 1980'S, MAINSTREAM retailers and manufacturers had come to realize how lucrative the market for black cosmetics might be. But Revlon, after launching a black-cosmetics line called Polished Ambers in the 70's, dropped it in 1982. ''We see to it that our lines offer a very wide range of shades, from the darkest to the palest,'' says Revlon spokesman Daniel J. Moriarty.
For generations, the Avon Lady's door-to-door-sales calls gave blacks an alternative to shopping in department stores, which catered mainly - if not exclusively - to whites. But Avon Products offered few shades suitable for black complexions. In 1986 Avon revamped its line, broadening the color range. Since the introduction of Avon Color Products, there has been a double-digit increase in sales.
Estee Lauder has also added deeper shades: Color Brilliance, its new line, includes nearly 50 items for dark complexions. But the company does not advertise the fact, which irritates many blacks. ''It's a 'by-the-way' sale,'' says Mikki Garth-Taylor, beauty editor of Essence. ''They [black women] go to the counter to buy something else, like mascara, and the salesperson mentions the foundations.''
Lauder managers deny discriminatory intent. ''We feel this market should not be segmented,'' says Vivian Behrens, a vice president of marketing. ''Today's ethnic consumer wants to be approached not as part of an ethnic group but as an American.''
TWO YEARS AGO, NAOMI SIMS and Alex Erwiah, then her brother-in-law, launched Manhattan-based Naomi Sims Beauty Products Ltd. A Mississippi native, Sims, 40, was the first black model to make the cover of such national magazines as Ladies' Home Journal in the 1960's. She had also written beauty books and developed a line of wigs and a signature fragrance. Erwiah, a 40-year-old native of the Ivory Coast, has for 14 years owned a cosmetics import-export business in New York that represents American cosmetics companies in Africa.
To distinguish itself from Fashion Fair and Flori Roberts, Naomi Sims focused on skin treatment rather than makeup. The main pitch: stress, fast food, pollution and other banes of modern existence were leaving their mark on black complexions, but Naomi Sims could help. By using only three products - a cleansing milk, chamomile cream soap and primrose rinsing lotion - for just three minutes a day, Sims promised, black women could have skin as healthy as their mothers.
Advertising extensively in local black media during the summer of 1987, the company invited black wom- en to Abraham & Straus in Brooklyn, where Sims and several beauty advisors would show them how to care for their skin. Hundreds of customers stood in line for hours.
In 1988, says Erwiah - who is C.E.O. and sole owner - revenues hit $5 million. With 60 products in 125 doors, he anticipates sales of ''$5 million plus'' for 1989. Yet Erwiah calculates that it will be at least two years before Naomi Sims shows a profit. Promotion and penetration of new markets are costly, and the company has invested heavily in new products, adding color cosmetics to its original skin-treatment line.
Erwiah has another problem: for reasons that are not clear, Naomi Sims is no longer on the scene. Sims, whose title is chairman of the board, is unavailable for interviews and has no scheduled department store appearances. When asked to describe Sims's current role, Donna Italiano, the company's spokesman, will only say, ''I guess primarily the same as an Estee Lauder. Naomi has established the brand, and now she has taken pretty much of a back seat. Alex is the sole owner and Naomi Sims collects royalties.'' Italiano does confirm that Sims has been ill and was recently hospitalized in Manhattan.
While some observers question whether Naomi Sims Beauty Products can succeed, absent a compelling, credible figure with whom black women can identify, others declare that the day of beauty queens like Estee Lauder has passed. ''Today's cosmetics companies are selling image more than personality,'' says consultant Natalia Holynskyj of Kline & Co., a market research firm in Fairfield, N.J. ''Even Estee Lauder has changed. The company doesn't use the Lauder name with its Clinique and Prescriptives lines.''
THE IDEA OF CREATING COSMETICS for dark-skinned women came to Patricia French in the spring of 1981, while she was traveling in the Ivory Coast. A native of Warner Robins, Ga., French had moved from Detroit to Paris earlier that year and begun working as a freelance makeup artist. On one of her assignments, she flew to Africa to oversee the makeup for a group of models. ''I realized,'' French says, ''that African women had distinct beauty problems.''
While in Africa, French linked up with Amale Ayad, a chemist who had done research on skin-care treatments for black women. They began testing a range of moisturizers and lotions. In 1986, backed by $4 million raised mostly by French's husband, Lawrence Charfoos, an attorney, Gazelle International introduced its first 13 items.
In Paris, where the company is based, the line was launched at Galeries Lafayette, a department store, and heavily publicized in the black media. At the same time, the American debut took place at several Rich's department stores in Atlanta.
French says worldwide sales for 1989 will be $3.5 million, half of that from Gazelle's 34 doors in the United States. Abroad, Gazelle's 45 products can be found in 66 doors in France and in a number of former French colonies in Africa and the Caribbean. Like Naomi Sims Beauty Products, Gazelle has yet to break even. ''I've put in over $7 million so far,'' says French. ''I've been losing money since I started. I tell myself it's not a loss, it's an investment.'' She projects that it will take another $2.5 million infusion before Gazelle turns a profit.
FOR HOUSTON-BASED JUIN RACHELE Cosmetics, the price of doing business in department stores has proved too high. Juin Rachele Cooper, a former Max Factor executive, and her husband, Patrick D. Cooper - natives of Jamaica in their 40's - unveiled a line of 157 items at Saks Fifth Avenue and other stores in 1986. Sales topped $1 million in three months.
Patrick Cooper now thinks that Rachele could not have picked a worse moment to begin. ''We were getting started at a time when department stores were consolidating,'' he explains. ''They were trying to cut costs, and they asked us to pay expenses that we didn't think were fair.'' He was under the impression that retailers would pick up part of the tab for promotion. ''In the beginning they tell you they'll pay half, but with the exception of a West Coast store, we've never been able to get them to chip in,'' Cooper says. He claims his company felt the greatest pressure to increase sales at Bloomingdale's, where management went on a cost-cutting campaign in 1988, after Campeau Corporation's highly leveraged purchase of Bloomingdale's parent, Federated Stores.
At Saks, says Patrick Cooper, Rachele could not make ends meet. For 30 hours a week, Rachele posted a makeup artist at the counter; the rest of the time the line was to be sold by Saks employees. ''Most of them are white, and many are older,'' he says. ''The buyer worked hard to get us support, but it was difficult to get these saleswomen to recommend products they would not use themselves.'' Rachele also received complaints from black customers, who said they were not getting the help they needed. ''They felt the salespeople didn't want to touch them,'' Patrick Cooper says. Though he describes Saks managers as ''very concerned'' when he relayed the complaint, he claims, the situation did not improve.
A Saks spokesman, who declines to be identified, denies Patrick Cooper's assertions and insists that the store gave Rachele ''a tremendous amount of support'' in the form of publicity. Pointing out that Saks was ''the first to buy and the last to drop'' the Rachele line, she says it was ''a decent product, but there was no market expertise or follow-through. He [Cooper] had a makeup artist at the counter sometimes, but he didn't do it consistently.''
In August 1988, after piling up debts of $1.3 million and losing another $1.2 million, the Coopers filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition in Texas and started over. Their first decision was to pull out of department stores. Juin Rachele Cosmetics now consists of two boutiques in Houston shopping malls and a mail-order business based on customer lists compiled at Rachele's former department-store counters. Relieved of the expenses of doing business with major retailers, Patrick Cooper thinks Rachele can break even on much smaller sales.
SELLING COSMETICS IN DEPARTMENT stores has always been a costly affair. Traditionally, the manufacturer gives the retailer a 40 percent discount on its products; the company also pays for all or part of the advertising and promotion, and covers the commissions for sales staff, which range from 3 to 10 percent. Since manufacturing costs often come close to 25 percent for small entrepreneurs who don't enjoy the economies of scale of a Revlon or Estee Lauder, that leaves only 25 percent for everything else - staff, product development and, if all goes well, profit.
Still, none of the black-cosmetics makers has priced its products in the upper reaches of the prestige lines for white skin. For example, the least expensive of the ethnic products is one of Flori Roberts's liquid foundations, at $11 an ounce, while Naomi Sims makes a cream foundation that, at $20 an ounce, is the costliest. Yet all are well below the top-of-the-line liquid makeup from Estee Lauder, with its $30-an-ounce price tag.
Moreover, none of the fledgling cosmetics companies for the ethnic or the mainstream market - let alone the scores of fly-by-night shops characteristic of this business - has the deep pockets of the giant concerns, a distinct disadvantage in department stores. Says the cosmetics buyer for a leading specialty chain: ''With counter space getting more precious, I have to ask, 'Will this pay off or should I fund another product?' There is definitely a need for black cosmetics, but cosmetics can't be sold without expensive, consistent multimedia support. The big guys are in the magazines every day. You won't get market share unless people know about you.''
THAT ATTITUDE ANGERS SOME blacks. ''We can't be Estee Lauder overnight,'' snaps Michael Bellamy, vice president of sales at Naomi Sims. Unable to mount a media barrage, Naomi Sims runs ads in Essence and relies on local promotion. On a small scale at least, the strategy appears to be working. For its recent opening at the Toledo branch of Jacobson's, a Midwestern specialty chain, Naomi Sims put out the word to local black women's groups and persuaded Jacobson's managers to welcome them with a store tour and a credit card application. In the first week, sales hit $5,000.
Gazelle looks for retailers willing to invest time as well as money. ''It may take an hour to convince a black woman to buy one cream,'' says Patricia French. ''After using a lot of Caucasian products that haven't worked, she's afraid. But once you convince her, she's a loyal customer.''
Overall growth in cosmetics sales has slowed from about 10 percent annually a decade ago to 6 percent a year, and discounters are gradually winning customers away from upscale department stores, which have seen their market share drop to 15 percent from 18 percent three years ago. Yet, industry analysts predict that cosmetics sales to blacks will rise 10 to 13 percent annually for the next several years -twice the rate of the industry. ''At the moment, there are no mass-market ethnic lines out there to compete with the wide selection offered by department-store lines,'' says Sandra A. Wheeler of Ardnas & Associates Ltd., a Chicago marketing consultant.
In addition, claims Patricia French, the black woman wants to shop in department stores: ''She is moving in the opposite direction of the market. She bought mass cosmetics for years, and now that her income is growing, she is moving upscale. She will continue to come to the department stores because that's where she finds the products she likes.''
Nor does the mass market appeal to black-cosmetics entrepreneurs. ''The Lauders and Cliniques and Lancomes haven't gone mass; they've stayed with class,'' says Lance Clarke of Fashion Fair. ''We're in top stores, and we want to stay. I haven't enjoyed class for so long that I want to leave.''

GRAPHIC: Patricia French, head of Gazelle, and her makeup artist, Karen Leak, demonstrate their products to a customer at Strawbridge & Clothier in Philadelphia (pg. 28); Naomi Sims with Alex Erwiah, C.E.O. of the cosmetics company that bears her name (Jeff Scales)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (92%); AVP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (92%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (92%); FLORI ROBERTS INC (82%); JOHNSON PUBLISHING CO INC (68%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

SUBJECT: COSMETICS; BLACKS (IN US) COSMETICS (92%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (92%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); WOMEN (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); FASHION SHOWS (76%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RETAILERS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); DERMATOLOGY (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); PUBLISHING (51%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: O'TOOLE, PATRICIA ESTEE LAUDER (92%); 



65 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 27, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 3505 words

HEADLINE: CAPTURING C.E.O.'s FOR POSTERITY

BYLINE: By Grace Gluek; Grace Glueck is art news editor of The Times.

 BODY:
''IT SEEMS TO BE A LAW OF NATURE,'' WROTE SIR MAX Beerbohm, the late English essayist and caricaturist, ''that no man is ever loath to sit for his portrait. A man may be old, he may be ugly, he may be burdened with grave responsibilities to the nation . . . but none of these considerations, nor all of them together, will deter him from sitting for his portrait.''
In the Manhattan studio of Everett Raymond Kinstler, a prolific painter of powerful men, Sir Max's ''law of nature'' is at work. ''A little straighter, John,'' says Kinstler. ''I don't want you to look as if you're slouching.'' John C. Angle, the retired chief executive officer of the Guardian Life Insurance Company of America, complies, a benevolent smile on his golf-tanned face, as Kinstler puts the finishing touches on the mellow likeness. Silver-haired and dignified, wearing gold-rimmed glasses and his C.E.O. uniform - dark suit, vest and rep tie - Angle looks every inch the model of a major corporate mover. 
He is participating in a retirement ritual almost as familiar in high echelons as the gold watch and the goodbye dinner - the board room portrait. The artist's version of the Angle visage, set against an architectural motif from Guardian's 78-year-old headquarters in Manhattan, will take its place in the company board room, along with portraits of earlier C.E.O.'s. ''I'm deeply conscious of the history of the Guardian,'' Angle says, ''and I'm happy to continue in the tradition of its portraits.'' Then, with a gracious nod to the artist, he adds, ''I'm sure this will be the outstanding one in the board room.''
Even in an era of corporate takeovers, as brisk rounds of musical chairs propel C.E.O.'s from one company to another, the portrait tradition endures. ''There may be more interest now than ever,'' says Marian MacKinney, director of Portraits Inc., a Manhattan gallery that matches artists with corporate clients. ''Fewer executives seem to think that having one's portrait done is a form of vanity, and they are finding the experience less intimidating.'' According to Ruth Sullivan, director of the portrait section of Grand Central Art Galleries, ''In the last five years our portrait business has increased by 300 percent.''
Kinstler, for example, whose long roster of subjects includes President Gerald R. Ford, John Wayne and Katharine Hepburn, has recently painted Alfred Brittain 3d of Bankers Trust New York, Robert Anderson of Rockwell International and Warren Anderson of Union Carbide.
The dean of the portrait profession, William Draper, whose commissioned subjects include the late Shah of Iran and President Richard M. Nixon, has recently painted both John R. Opel and Thomas J. Watson Jr. of I.B.M., and Edson W. Spencer of Honeywell. And Aaron Shikler, whose suave renderings appeal to sophisticated tastes - and who regularly shows work unrelated to his portraits in an uptown Manhattan gallery - counts among his subjects of distinction (besides John and Jacqueline Kennedy and Ronald and Nancy Reagan) William S. Paley of CBS and Time Inc.'s Andrew Heiskell, the retired chairman, and Hedley Donovan, the former editor in chief.
Although in recent years some corporations have elected to immortalize their chief executives in photographs, most still opt for paintings or sculptures. ''There's a sense of stability and permanence about an oil painting that you don't get from a photograph,'' says John Angle. Kinstler explains, more grandly, ''The camera records a moment, the painter makes a statement.''
One of Kinstler's recent ''statements'' is his portrait of William E. Simon, former Secretary of the Treasury, for Lafayette College in Easton, Pa., which built an economics research center with Simon's gift of $3 million in 1984. (Aside from board rooms, grateful institutions such as schools and hospitals provide popular settings for executive art.) In the three-quarter-length portrait of Simon, the smiling donor is seen in a striped shirt and rep tie, but with his suit coat hooked casually over one shoulder. ''He arrived in a dark suit,'' wrote Kinstler in the 1987 edition of his book, 'Painting Portraits,' ''and I suggested he pose in his shirt, since he tends to be informal. I asked him what he would normally do with his jacket, and he suggested this.''
But when Simon raised $15 million in 1986 - through his own and other donations - for what was to become the William E. Simon Graduate School of Business Administration at the University of Rochester, the school and several of Simon's friends went for a full-length bronze. It was chosen, explained Dean Paul W. MacAvoy in Simon Business, the school's publication, ''to express the level of energy and initiative of our goals and our new patron.'' The six-foot-high sculpture by Wayne F. Williams depicts Simon in the same informal pose as Kinstler's portrait.
At the dedication, Simon said he hoped the bronze would become a reminder ''that the real treasure of the capitalist system lies here in our people's intelligence, faith, ideas and knowledge.'' In an interview recently, however, Simon took a more casual. ''I don't sit still long for things like that,'' he said. ''I don't think much of self-aggrandizement. Still, it's nice to be recognized in that fashion.''
NOT EVERY EXECUTIVE FEELS that he should loom large in the board room lineup. Take the case of the late Cleveland Dodge, at one time the chairman of the board of Teachers College at Columbia University and a director of Phelps Dodge, the giant copper company. He asked Raymond Kinstler to make another version of a portrait the artist had done for Teachers College, to be hung in the Phelps Dodge board room. ''He asked if I could make it smaller than the other board room portraits,'' says Kinstler. ''I asked why, and he said, 'Because I haven't done that much for the company.' ''
The process of choosing a portraitist can be casual or quite formal. After Kinstler had been selected by the Federal Government in 1974 to do the official portrait of Simon as Secretary of the Treasury, artist and subject became friends. So Kinstler was a natural choice to do Simon's portrait for Lafayette. Kinstler was chosen to paint Angle through a kind of old-girl network. Angle's wife, Catherine, had gone to Smith with Cora Lee Gibbs, whose late husband, Julian, had been president of Amherst College. Kinstler had painted Gibbs's portrait posthumously, and his wife mentioned it to the Angles.
''So then I called Ray,'' says Angle, ''and he came over with photographs of his work. I liked them. All that the company's human resources committee had said was that tradition should be carried out. If the portrait satisfied me, it was O.K. with them.'' But before Glaxo Holdings Inc., the American arm of the British pharmaceutical company, chose Zenos Frudakis to do a bas-relief and a bust of its retiring C.E.O., Joseph J. Ruvane, it hired an art consultant and set up a formal selection process.
''The portrait had been suggested by Dr. Ernest Mario, who replaced Mr. Ruvane as C.E.O.,'' says Jennifer McMillan, director of public affairs for Glaxo. ''He'd seen a relief of a president at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington and liked it, and we looked for an artist who could do a powerful statement.''
After scouting a number of art consultants, Glaxo settled on Art South, a company in Philadelphia, which showed them the work of several sculptors. ''We narrowed it down to two,'' says McMillan. She and Ruvane visited both artists, choosing Frudakis, whose studio is in Philadelphia.
It's not so easy to get a C.E.O. to sit still for very long, and portraitists sometimes depend entirely on photographs. But the top artists insist on sittings.
''I never use photographs,'' says William Draper, who takes no more than five days to do a portrait, and turns out some 15 to 20 a year, at prices ranging from $20,000 to $35,000, depending on the size. ''I paint very freely. They have to sit four hours a day, two in the morning and two in the afternoon. To get a portrait that pleases me and the sitter, we have to have a good time so he looks relaxed.'' To put his clients at ease, Draper will regale them with limericks and anecdotes; during breaks, he may play the baby grand piano in his studio to accompany his singing of slightly off-color ditties.
Aaron Shikler, too, tries to loosen up his clients during the four sittings he asks of them. ''Once they relax they get into poses,'' he says. ''The face in animation is usually the face that people know. The face in tight repose is not recognizable.''
Unlike Draper, Shikler - whose price range is from $75,000 to $125,000, depending on the complexity of the portrait - takes many photographs of his corporate sitters ''for detail work.''
In his studio recently, Kinstler, who spends an average of 80 hours on each portrait for a minimum of $15,000, was in the final stages of Angle's portrait, and occasionally stepped back to photograph his subject. ''I take photos frequently because after the pose is established different things begin to happen,'' he explained, ''and I want to have these for reference.''
The board room images that Kinstler and other artists paint are in most cases quite distinct from those they make to hang in less formal venues. ''If you do your own portraits of family and friends, you're free to paint within your esthetic ability,'' suggests Aaron Shikler. ''But when you paint a C.E.O., it's not just him but the corporation behind him.''
When he did the likenesses of Dr. Thomas F. Frist Sr. and Jack C. Massey, two founders of the Hospital Corporation of America in Nashville, Tenn., in the 70's, Shikler remembers, a third founder asked him to hold off on doing him. Dr. Thomas F. Frist Jr., who was younger than the other men by several decades, ''felt he didn't look old enough,'' says Shikler. ''At all times, C.E.O.'s have to be aware of stockholders.'' The younger Frist waited until he was 45, explaining, ''I thought I'd better get a few more wrinkles.''
One of the few female C.E.O.'s whose portrait adorns a company headquarters is Mary Kay Ash of Dallas, who in 1963, with her son, Richard R. Rogers, founded Mary Kay Cosmetics Inc., a multimillion-dollar corporation based on the direct sale of personal-care products.''Let's face it,'' says the 70-year-old chairman emeritus, ''there aren't that many women C.E.O.'s to begin with.''
She was painted twice with her son by the late Richard O. Skemp, as a gift from their employees on the occasion of the company's 20th anniversary in 1983. One portrait hangs in the lobby of the Dallas headquarters, the other in the executive offices on the eighth floor. She feels the portraits enhance the ''family'' atmosphere she has sought to create for the corporation.
THE TRADITION OF THE BOARD room portrait might be said to go back at least to the late 16th century, when institutions in the Netherlands commissioned group likenesses of their governors. In the 17th century, Dutch masters like Rembrandt and Hals were asked to paint officials of merchants' guilds; regents of almshouses and hospitals, and members of civic guards and militias. Rembrandt's ''The Night Watch,'' for example, is a group portrait of one of Amsterdam's civic guard companies.
In the 18th century, the artists Thomas Gainsborough and Thomas Lawrence did the leaders of the Equitable Life Assurance Society for its offices in London. They followed the conventions of Renaissance masters, who endowed merchant princes with the prestige earlier reserved for the nobility and the clergy. In 1782, for example, Gainsborough painted a full-length portrait of Sir Charles Gould, the fourth president of the company. The portrait still hangs in the Equitable board room.
Today's executive icon is also meant to be a piece of the company's history. Take, for example, a pair of portraits of Donald M. Kendall, former C.E.O. and now head of the executive committee of Pepsico Inc., and the late Herman W. Lay, who created the potato chip empire of Frito-Lay. In 1965, Lay merged his company with Pepsi-Cola, then headed by Kendall. The new company became Pepsico, with Kendall as chief executive officer and Lay as chairman. Their portraits now hang together in the lobby of Pepsico's headquarters in Purchase, N.Y. - both by John Howard Sanden.
''I had mine made to go with Herman's. We were extremely close,'' says Kendall. ''You have to look at it in a historical sense. We put the company together, and it's probably important to know how a company starts. When I leave, people who come afterwards will know.''
For Nynex, the international communications company spawned by the breakup of A. T. &T., Aaron Shikler did a full-length portrait of Delbert C. Staley, who recently retired as the company's first chairman. The portrait will hang at Nynex's corporate office in White Plains.''It's great that they wanted to recognize that I was the first Nynex chairman. Corporations do develop their own history, image and culture, and it's a nice way to start Nynex's.''
Most firms seeking portraitists for their C.E.O.'s tend to eschew venturesome artists for more staid practitioners with proven illustrational skills. That goes even for companies such as Pepsico and Nynex that collect art. Donald Kendall, who was instrumental in creating Pepsico's noted sculpture garden, which contains many outstanding modern works, and Delbert Staley, who has presided over the creation of Nynex's collections of contemporary art and 19th-century Hudson River paintings, both chose traditionalists to paint their portraits.
''Our clientele is not adventurous, generally,'' says Marian MacKinney of Portraits Inc. ''They don't want an artist who will give them too much of a painting.''
In England the same button-down attitude prevails. ''Most portraits,'' says Robin Gibson, curator of the 20th-century department at the National Portrait Gallery in London, ''have to fit in with the series of board room paintings that's already there.''
One sprightly exception is a portrait done in 1986 by the English artist Anthony Green for the Framlington Group in London, a middle-sized money-management firm. Ingeniously using skewed perspectives, Green depicted in life-size the three top Framlington executives at the time - Bill Stuttaford, Antony Milford and Tim Miller - in wilted workaday garb surrounded by the hardware and software of their trade. Behind them, the walls of the office bulge from the sheer dynamism of the enterprise.
The portrait, which caused a stir when it was shown in newspapers and at the Royal Academy in London, was commissioned by Tim Miller, then managing director of Framlington and a neighbor of the artist. ''Although it was only 15 years old, Framlington had become a very successful money-management firm,'' Miller recalls, ''and I thought it would be a good thing to have a picture, perhaps the beginning of a great collection.''
Green, a highly personal painter who says he takes on ''one portrait commission a year,'' was surprised by the assignment. ''But I set to work,'' he says. ''And I told them the painting could grow. If they added new men to the top management, I could paint them in; if the number was reduced, I could saw them off.''
Soon after the portrait was hung at Framlington, a hostile takeover bid succeeded. Tim Miller was out; his two teammates stayed on until this year. ''The portrait created a row because the people who were taking us over hated it,'' says Miller. ''One of the chief architects of the takeover looked at it with flashing eyes. 'That's the worst portrait ever painted,' he said. So when I left, I bought it, and now it hangs in my home.''
EVEN WHILE MANY CORPORATIONS remain conservative in their choice of an artist, there does seem to be a trend toward more informality of pose and dress. Raymond Kinstler notes: ''I'm a 20th-century painter, and in the last 8 or 10 years I've been able to persuade companies to go as they have with new architectural concepts - using backgrounds that reflect more color, open windows, people in more informal poses.''
Kinstler has painted Arthur Hauspurg of Con Edison, for example, in his shirt sleeves and a necktie, and Herbert V. Kohler Jr. of Kohler Inc., the plumbing-fixtures tycoon, in an open-collared sport shirt in an outdoor setting. ''Hauspurg came from Con Edison in a suit, and I took photos and sketched him,'' says Kinstler. ''Then I said, 'I'd like to see you in your office.' And there he was in his shirt sleeves. His secretary said, 'That's the way he is.' So that's the way it wound up.''
A refreshing change from the pin-stripe cliche is Daniel E. Greene's portrait of Robert Heffner III, a founder of G. H. K. Co., an Oklahoma City gas-exploration company. It depicts him in shirt sleeves, standing in a cluttered office surrounded - as in a Holbein portrait - by the attributes of his trade: maps and geological charts. ''His rugged looks suggested to me a character straight out of Ayn Rand's 'Atlas Shrugged,' '' says Greene.
Notable, too, for their informality are the portraits that Aaron Shikler has done of Time Inc. officials Andrew Heiskell and Hedley Donovan, both in their shirt sleeves. Although Delbert Staley insisted on wearing a jacket, Shikler managed to give him a casual air by portraying him with an overcoat draped over his arm - ''to avoid the Bachrach look,'' Shikler says.
As a matter of fact, Bachrach Photographers, image maker to American V.I.P.'s for 120 years, has itself gone into oil. Although its specialty is still magisterial color photographs, at prices ranging from $6,000 to more than $30,000, depending upon size, it also employs a staff artist, Arthur Pyykko, whose job it is to use Bachrach photographs to create oil paintings, should a client so desire.
The portrait in bronze, once a fixture in corporate headquarters, has seen something of a revival of late. Though bronze is more expensive than oil on canvas because of the high cost of casting, it is even more durable and dignifying. But the prices for bronzes run about the same as for oil portraits. The sculptor Zenos Frudakis, for example, charges between $10,000 and $30,000 for a bronze portrait.
In 1986 and '87, Allen H. Neuharth, former chairman and C.E.O. of the Gannett Company, was the subject of three bronze busts by Wendy Ross, a sculptor in Bethesda, Md. - though her only direct contact with him was a single dinner. From then on, she used videotapes and photographs supplied by Gannett. Two of the bronze busts rest at the home offices of two newspapers Neuharth founded, Florida Today, in Melbourne, Fla., and USA Today, in Arlington, Va. The third bust is part of a trio that includes Frank Gannett, the founder of the newspaper conglomerate, and Paul Miller, a former C.E.O. The works are displayed in the 31st floor rotunda of the company's headquarters in Arlington, Va.
Bronze is traditionally a stuffy medium. Not so the life-size statue of T. Boone Pickens, general partner of Mesa Limited Partnership of Dallas. Done by Leonard McMurry from action photographs in 1979, it portrays the flamboyant financier in shorts and a T-shirt, wielding a racquetball racquet. The bronze was given to Pickens, an avid player, by his employees, and now confronts them as they enter Mesa's fitness center in Amarillo, Tex.
Glaxo chose bronze to immortalize Joseph Ruvane because, according to McMillan, the public affairs director, his achievements called for ''more than a painting.''
''I sat for Zenos three times,'' Ruvane says, ''and during the process, he must have taken 500 photos. He worked on the bust and the bas-relief simultaneously, and we had great conversations.'' When the bas-relief was finished, Ruvane complained that his tie was crooked. ''But then,'' he recalls, ''we looked at the photos, and in every one, my tie was crooked. Zenos fixed it with a flick.''
HARD AS AN ARTIST MIGHT work to give a corporation what it wants, it's inevitable that some portraits have to be reworked or even redone. As Raymond Kinstler sees it, ''You usually have more problems with those who pass on the portrait than the subjects. I may negotiate, and make adjustments. Or I may say, 'I don't see it that way and I can't change it.' ''
Portraitists are often accused of flattering their subjects - or at least not probing beyond an acceptable likeness - and those who do board room portraits are by no means exempt from the charge. Most deny it, however. Kinstler, for example, says, ''I don't consider it my job to flatter people.'' On the other hand, he notes, ''Many of the men I've painted have served the company all their lives.''
Adds William Draper: ''I don't flatter people. I paint them the way they look at their best, the way they look to me. And usually they try to look nice.'' Asked if he makes them look younger, the 76-year-old artist said, ''A lot of that depends on how old you are when you paint. Everyone looks young to me, now.''

GRAPHIC: Zenos Frudakis sculpts a bas-relief of J. J. Ruvane, former C.E.O. of Glaxo; William E. Simon by Wayne F. Williams; Delbert Staley of Nynex by Aaron Shikler; Everett Raymond Kinstler puts finishing touches on a portait of John Angle, former C.E.O. of Guardian Life; (Jodi Bruen; others courtesy of the artists) (pg. 27); a portrait by Anthony Green of the top echelon of the Framlington Group, a British money-management company, in 1986: Bill Stuttaford, Antony Millard and Tim Miller (Mayor Rowan Gallery) (pg. 46); a 1782 portrait by Thomas Gainsborough of Sir Charles Gould, head of the Equitable Life Assurance Society in London (Derek Hudson/Sygma) (pg. 48)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: GUARDIAN LIFE INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (69%); BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (50%); 

SUBJECT: ART; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); WRITERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TAKEOVERS (68%); 

PERSON: GLUECK, GRACE; KINSTLER, EVERETT RAYMOND; DRAPER, WILLIAM; SHIKLER, AARON; GREEN, ANTHONY



66 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 20, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 3106 words

HEADLINE: THE LITTLE INDUSTRY THAT COULD

BYLINE: By Eden Ross Lipson; Eden Ross Lipson, an editor of The Times Book Review, is the author of ''The New York Times Parent's Guide to the Best Books for Children.''

 BODY:
AT THE WAREHOUSES OF HARPER & Row in Scranton, Pa., it was Christmas in September. The weather was hot and muggy, but crews were working like veritable elves, filling holiday orders from bookstores all over the country. No Grinch would steal Harper's Christmas this year. Five million books had left the warehouse in August; a similar number was rolling out in September.
When Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation bought the venerable publishing house two years ago, he primarily had his eye on the adult titles. He poured more than $2 million into modernizing Harper's warehouses. But lo and behold, as the 1989 Christmas rush proceeded, almost half of the books pouring out of the 300,000-square-foot facility were children's titles.
It is an industrywide phenomenon. Adult book sales have been flat for several years, while sales of hardcover children's books in the first seven months of 1989 were nearly 15 percent ahead of the 1988 pace. For paperbacks the seven-month increase was an astounding 51 percent. 
Elizabeth Gordon, a senior vice president at Harper & Row and the 46-year-old publisher of Harper Junior Books, had left her New York City office to visit the warehouses that September day to discuss shipping procedures for a new line of mass market children's books to be introduced next year. But she took time out to walk to the warehouse balcony and savor the scene below.
Dozens of cardboard packing boxes bearing the blue-and-white Harper logo were carried by a conveyor belt past shelves loaded with fast-selling books. Workers known as ''pickers'' rapidly pulled titles off the shelves, filling the moving boxes. In the warehouse were pallets with titles that sold so fast there was no reason to put them on shelves. With three exceptions - new books by the writer Erma Bombeck and the television comedian Roseanne Barr and a longtime Harper best seller titled ''The 8-Week Cholesterol Diet'' - all the books Gordon could see were Harper & Row children's classics: Maurice Sendak's ''Where the Wild Things Are,'' Shel Silverstein's ''The Giving Tree,'' Margaret Wise Brown's ''The Runaway Bunny,'' E. B. White's ''Charlotte's Web.''
In a prominent corner position was the pride of the warehouse, skid number J-40. There sat the boxed sets of ''Little House,'' nine paperback books by Laura Ingalls Wilder. The books, most of them published in the 30's and 40's, continue to sell at the rate of 80,000 a year at a price of $29.95.
For Liz Gordon, who had devoted herself to Harper's children's books for 16 years, it was a scene of personal triumph. But in retrospect it was a bittersweet moment. Just seven weeks later, Harper & Row issued a terse announcement that Gordon had decided to leave the company. She said later, ''You either accept another way of doing things, or you go. And my decision was to go.'' Industry speculation was that Murdoch, the new owner, was going to broaden the marketing of juvenile books and that Gordon's bailiwick would soon find itself with a new look. Murdoch has made sweeping changes in virtually all of the publishing properties he acquired. But after Gordon's resignation, George Craig, Murdoch's choice to head Harper & Row, insisted, ''We are in the business of maintaining the classy, high quality children's book publishing that is our inheritance and the company's heritage.''
Book publishing is a $13 billion-a-year business. In 1988, text books, professional and technical books accounted for $6 billion; book club sales, reference books and other specialized markets were worth another $3 billion. So-called trade books (hard cover and paperback books sold in book stores) and mass market paperbacks (less expensive editions that are issued in a standardized format and distributed through newsstands as well as bookstores) were responsible for $4 billion in sales. This year, sales of children's trade books alone are expected to exceed $1.5 billion.
THE REASONS ARE DEMOGRAPHIC. Four million children will be born this year, the same number as in 1953, at the beginning of the baby boom. Says J. Kendrick Noble, publishing analyst for Paine Webber, ''The boom will continue for at least 10 years because most children's books are sold to, or for the use of, 6 to 12 year olds.''
In children's books, the economic structure of the adult-book world is turned on its head. The typical adult book is marketed to have a shelf life of two months in hard cover, after which unsold copies are shipped back to the publisher for a full refund. Successful titles may continue in a paperback edition or possibly be sold to the movies. But, with the exception of blockbuster best sellers and classics that survive for generations in paperback, an adult book usually dies within two or three years.
Advances to authors of adult books can soar into the seven-figure range. Harper & Row, industry sources estimate, lost $300,000 on David Stockman's insider view of the Reagan White House, for which the company paid $2.4 million. ''Children's publishing,'' says Gordon, ''has been somewhat immune to the things that have hit adult publishing, because the amounts of the advances have been on a smaller scale.''
First printings are decidedly small (as little as 3,000 copies for a new author) and it can take almost two years to determine a book's success. Unlike the adult sphere, current best seller lists are almost irrelevant since children's books become established first in libraries and schools - roughly two-thirds of all juvenile books are bought by these institutions - and then begin to sell in bookstores.
''Librarians are held to be the experts in the field,'' says William C. Morris, Harper Junior Book's director of library promotion and advertising. These keepers of the junior literary flame make their selections based on recommendations in trade publications or follow the lead of the numerous children's book prizes.
Through this trickle-down system, a juvenile book may earn the writer considerable royalties. ''The books can be around for five, ten, twenty years,'' says Gordon. ''The authors have five, six or seven books that are making money.'' Contrary to adult publishing operations, these backlists generate a constant stream of earnings for children's book divisions.
In 1988, Harper issued a 25th anniversary edition of Sendak's ''Where the Wild Things Are''; it sold 100,000 copies in hard cover and 300,000 in paperback. Assuming Sendak received the standard royalty, he earned $274,200 on that edition in the last year. Harper & Row's annual operating profit on such a book, is estimated to be about $300,000.
ELIZABETH GORDON, A DOCTOR'S daughter from Lawrence, L. I., and a Cornell graduate, received her master's degree in English from New York University. In 1966, she attended the six-week-long publishing procedures course at Radcliffe College and then took a job at the small, prestigious house of Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
Gordon found herself in children's books, a quiet backwater of the book publishing industry. In the aftermath of Sputnik, the first satellite to orbit the globe, Washington made $100 million available to libraries for ''curriculum- oriented'' books. But for the most part children's divisions were considered a minor operation.
Editors of juvenile books, however, approached their jobs as a calling. Like the librarians, the editors saw themselves as guardians of the portals of children's literature. In 1973, Gordon moved to Harper & Row as an associate editor.
Harper Junior Books is neither the oldest nor the largest children's department; those honors belong respectively to Macmillan, which was established in 1919, and to Western, which produces the inexpensive Golden Books. But under Ursula Nordstrom, Harper & Row had nurtured many of the executives who define children's books today: Susan Hirschman of Greenwillow Books, Phyllis J. Fogelman of Dial Books for Young Readers and Charlotte Zolotow of Charlotte Zolotow books (a Harper & Row imprint). And, under Nordstrom, the company developed the backlist that supports the division to this day.
Ursula Nordstrom, who died last year, was not a college graduate, a teacher, a librarian or a mother; her qualification for heading ''Harper Books for Boys and Girls,'' she told a prominent librarian, was that she was ''a former child.'' She had already taken partial retirement when Gordon joined the department.
''She had an incredible instinct for what was a good children's book,'' Gordon says. ''And she could drive a hard bargain.''
By 1975, when Gordon became a full editor at Harper, the country was in recession; Federal funds had dried up and the entire book industry was stagnant. Several publishing houses either eliminated or pared down their children's departments. At the time, Gordon considered leaving Harper. ''In some sense I was bored,'' she says in her direct, unflinching way. ''If you were a woman, particularly a woman in the children's book department, nobody taught you about the business end of publishing.''
In 1977, Gordon enrolled at N.Y.U.'s night program for a master's degree in business administration, with a specialty in management and corporate development. ''I wouldn't put myself up there with the great children's book editors,'' she says with a grin. ''I have other talents: running things, putting together whole programs, managing people.'' The following year, she married Neil Lowenbraun, a manager at I.B.M. Their son, Matthew, is now nine years of age.
Meanwhile new opportunities were beckoning: the children's book business was being invigorated by a new wave of eager baby-boom parents. Stephen Roxburgh, the 39-year-old publisher of Farrar, Straus & Giroux's children's books, explains that ''My generation grew up just when the Government put a lot of money into public education. You didn't have books in the house, but you had access to books at the library. Today, my generation buys books and wants children to have books.''
Last year, 3.7 trade books were bought for every child in the United States, versus 2.1 trade books for every adult. Those figures do not include book clubs, which sell millions of books to children in school as well as to adults.
Just before Gordon finished her M.B.A., Norman Pomerance, group vice president in charge of Harper's general book program, offered her the post of publisher of Harper Junior Books and Trophy, then a small trade paperback line. One week later, Gordon assumed the title of publisher for T. Y. Crowell's and Lippincott's children's book departments as well.
''I initially thought of the M.B.A. as language study, that I would learn to speak to people in the treasurer's office,'' Gordon says. ''But it also gives you analytical skills and a means of looking at situations in terms of being financially responsible for a division.''
In 1982, when Gordon took over, net sales of children's books were $18 million; for 1989, they are projected at $50 million.
To snare prize authors, who make those kinds of sales possible, children's book publishers are just beginning to offer big advances. Last year Houghton Mifflin paid $801,000 at auction to win the right to publish a new children's book, ''Swan Lake,'' with text by Mark Helprin and illustrations by Chris Van Allsburg. Prices for previously published series of books, which can be issued in trade or mass paperback editions, are also rising steeply.
Book club, recording, film strip and toy licenses build reputations and establish awareness of authors and characters. Thus there is intense competition to reclaim paperback licenses for children's books that have been sold to other companies. This past spring the Dell Publishing Company bid more than $6 million to keep 17 books by Beverly Cleary in its Yearling line of trade books for elementary school readers. But Dell was outbid by Avon Books, which bought the titles for mass market paperbacks.
Classic titles - rediscovered by parents and passed on to their children - have become the equivalent of retail brand names. Mass market titles for younger children - the books by authors like Stan and Jan Berenstain or Richard Scarry - sell in the millions. ''Children's books were always the most profitable segment of the business,'' says Gordon. And now that segment is also the fastest growing. Among the foreign publishing giants who have acquired thriving children's book departments in the United States are Bertlesmann, which owns Bantam, Doubleday and Dell; the Pearson Group, which owns Viking Penguin, New American Library and the still-surviving Dutton children's book division, and Rupert Murdoch.
WHEN MURDOCH AND HIS LIEU tenants set about acquiring Harper & Row in 1987, they were aware of the company's backlist in children's books, which was 3,000 titles strong. But, says George Craig, the 49-year-old C.E.O. of Harper, ''We didn't fully understand the quality and depth of the Harper backlist, that we were getting a jewel.''
Almost immediately, Gordon recalls, ''A mandate came down to make the company profitable as quickly as possible.'' Approximately 70 people were laid off, all in the administrative and clerical divisions, none in editorial.
Craig was vice chairman of Collins, a British publishing house controlled by Murdoch, when the media baron asked him to sit in on the Harper negotiations. He was appointed to run the company in 1988.
''Liz Gordon and her team,'' says the Scottish-born Craig, rolling his r's, ''went out of their way to impress on us just how sacred some of their values were in Junior Books.''
According to Gordon, Craig was unfamiliar with the functioning of the children's book market in the United States, particularly the library market. ''Collins is much more of a mass market publisher,'' Gordon says. ''Mass market is marketing-driven. It is series dominated, where you are not selling a book, but a series with a marketing plan behind it. Trade publishing is more editorial-driven.''
Craig had assumed that Harper and Collins, which has its own children's department, would co-publish their books. But Gordon was of a different mind. ''American children want to read about what they know,'' she says. ''There are books that transcend national boundaries, such as 'The Secret Garden.' But the majority tend to be set in the child's very particular world.''
It became clear that Craig intended to integrate Harper & Row into Murdoch's media empire. In the spring, Gordon says, ''it may become Harper & Collins, and will include Angus & Robertson, the largest Australian publisher,'' another Murdoch property. ''I certainly think there is pressure to make it as global a publishing division as possible.''
GORDON WAS ONE OF the executives awarded a golden parachute when Murdoch bought Harper & Row. It entitled her to two times her yearly salary and bonus should she leave for ''good reason.'' Last year, Gordon negotiated an employment contract that would pay her considerably more if she left or was discharged.
From the perspective of Harper & Row's employees, the 1987 takeover was a financial boon. Employees received $65 a share for stock that had been credited to them, under the existing pension plan, at an assumed value of $8.75 five years before. ''So we are talking about a lot of money, for everyone in the company,'' says Gordon. ''Part of the stock option money financed my house in Scarsdale.''
Pre-Murdoch, Harper & Row lacked a mass paperback line. It meant, Gordon acknowledges, that ''there were books we went after, but didn't feel we could offer as much money as the books eventually went for.'' Presumably that will change with the addition of a new mass market line in January. The company has already announced a series of children's books that will be created especially for the division.
The books will be targeted for readers from the ages of 7 to 16; the series is being co-produced with Daniel Weiss Associates, a book packager whose previous books have included the wildly successful Sweet Valley High books and the Sleepover Friends series.
Gordon has nothing against ''light'' literature for children, she says. ''I've always been of the mind that adults don't have to go home and read 'War and Peace' at night. Neither should kids.'' On the other hand, she does not feel that ''popcorn,'' as she calls romances and mystery stories, should become a main part of a child's reading diet. ''Children will not become book readers if all they have are comic books . . . or a steady diet of formula fiction,'' Gordon wrote in a 1986 essay in Publishers Weekly. Formula fiction is just what Eddie Bell, the publisher of Harper Paperbacks and a senior vice president of the company, has ordered.
Last October Bell told Publishers Weekly that Harper will test the new titles using ''traditional focus groups and other methods as well -all the ways that any packaged goods organization goes about launching products.'' It was, he said, an attempt to make books competitive with ''other leisure items.''
While she was still publisher of Junior Books, Gordon, when pressed for a description of Bell's editorial style, said that he ''buys his ties at a different store.'' Her resignation behind her, she adds: ''You can't just take a literary novel into mass market, and it would have been foolish of Junior Books to think about publishing a Dan Weiss line without proper distribution. Even if we had editors who were champing at the bit to edit that sort of book . . . and we didn't.''
But when asked if the mass market issue had led to her departure, Gordon refuses comment. Craig will only say, ''It all happened pretty fast. I am very fond of her.''
Last month, Craig appointed Marilyn Kriney, the former editor in chief of Trophy, the juvenile trade paperback line, as publisher of the three children's book divisions. Kriney will report to Eddie Bell.
Says Kriney, ''Harper is, was and always will be a quality house. But we are going to broaden the base.'' Bell agrees: ''We have the most fantastic children's publishing house here - classy, high quality, commercial. But there are other opportunities.'' He plans 108 books for the mass market line next year, for both adult and children's markets.
Gordon's own plans are uncertain. ''All publishers secretly want to open their own country newspaper,'' she says, ''or start their own publishing company or open their own bookstore - where nothing will ever sully that very pure love of books. I want to look at every possibility. It could be children's television. It could be book clubs, the magazine business. I'm going to take a good look-and-see.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 20); Elizabeth Gordon (Alan Staats/Flight Level Design (pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: SCRANTON, PA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (83%); CHARLOTTE'S WEB INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARPER & ROW PUBLISHERS INC

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH PUBLISHING (91%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); BOOK SALES (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); BOOKSTORES (72%); YOUTH MARKET (69%); 

PERSON: LIPSON, EDEN ROSS; GORDON, ELIZABETH; MURDOCH, RUPERT KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (71%); 



67 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 10, Column 4; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: TO START WITH . . .;
VIVE LA DIFFERENCE

BYLINE: By PAM CYTRYNBAUM

 BODY:
WE ARE CHARGING what the market will bear. London is a more popular point,'' says a British Airways spokesman sounding not the least bit apologetic about the $3,606 one-way Concorde fare between New York and London. Air France charges $952 less, flying its Concordes on a route to Paris that is 186 miles longer. 
''In order to promote Paris as a gateway to Europe, we kept our fares down,'' says Jean-Claude Baumgarten, general manager of United States operations for the French airline. ''It was a competitive factor.''
Air France's 100-passenger planes - one a day each way - are on average 60-percent filled with World Bank officials, Middle Eastern diplomats and French and American fashion commuters. Among the regulars: trade publisher John Fairchild; Linda Dresner, the specialty shop doyenne of Park Avenue and Birmingham, Mich., and Alain Wertheimer, chairman of Chanel Inc.
Enough lawyers, investment bankers and the corporate raiders they serve - the likes of Henry Kravis, Sir James Goldsmith and Robert Maxwell - have given the British supersonic an average load factor of 70 to 85 percent.
Except for price, the differences between the British and French Concordes are subtle. The champagne, caviar and vintage French wines are practically identical (B. A. refers to its Bordeaux as claret) and the gifts of equal value: Cross pen sets and silver decanter labels aboard the British Concorde; Porthault boxer shorts for men on Air France.
Both airlines hope to keep their Concordes in service until the year 2005. French Concorde traveler Herve Aaron, president of the New York branch of Didier Aaron, the Paris antiques firm, is unconcerned that the next generation of faster-than-sound aircraft is only under study. ''I don't think my time is that valuable,'' he says.
A twice-a-year Concorde passenger to London, Richard L. Huber, executive vice president for capital markets and foreign exchange at Chase Manhattan Bank, is almost gleeful. ''I'll have a perfect excuse not to make certain tedious meetings,'' he says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CHANEL INC (69%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AIR FRANCE; BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CONCORDE AIRPLANE AIRLINES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); WINE (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (54%); PUBLISHING (53%); 

PERSON: CYTRYNBAUM, PAM HENRY KRAVIS (51%); 



68 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 74, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: IMAGE OF A CHAMPION

BYLINE: By Jay R. Tunney; Jay R. Tunney is president of Hobson's of Korea Ltd.

 BODY:
SIXTEEN MONTHS AGO, I BECAME the first American to open and run an ice cream parlor in Seoul. In some ways, it didn't make much sense. The South Korean Government was notorious for its unwillingness to open markets to foreigners. Moreover, Koreans traditionally have no taste for dairy products or sweet desserts. Yet somehow I think my father would have approved.
Gene Tunney was a businessman, an investor in numerous enterprises from coal production to banking. But he won his place in history because of his willingness to take on the toughest challenge he could find, in the person of Jack Dempsey, the heavyweight champion of the world. And because, as he showed in their rematch in 1927, he could get knocked around and still come out on top. In my own modest way, I like to think I'm living up to Pop's image. 
I was 50 years old when I received an invitation I couldn't resist, to start anew in a business about which I knew next to nothing. In 1986, Y. H. Kwong, a Hong Kong business friend, offered to sell me the Korean franchise for Hobson's Ice Cream, a superpremium product made in California. Kwong had himself acquired the master franchise for Southeast Asia after getting hooked on the product during a visit to a Hobson's store in Tokyo.
Except for one episode in 1970 when I helped run my brother John's successful campaign for the United States Senate in California, I had no experience in consumer marketing. Most of my career had been in commodities trading and in shipping in New York, San Francisco and Hong Kong. But when Kwong made his offer, the shipping business was suffering through one of its worst depressions and I had seen too many unhappy people. Ice cream has a way of making people smile, so I decided it was time for me to make the leap back to the consumer.
I knew the hurdles would be high, that the popularity of Hobson's and other American ice creams in Japan meant nothing. The Koreans are very different from the Japanese - economically and culturally - and light years behind them in taking to Western fast foods. One reason is their isolation from the industrialized Western world until just 35 years ago.
I was aware that Baskin-Robbins was already on the scene and that their joint venture with a Korean company was finding rough going. But I foresaw a huge consumer explosion like Japan's coming to Korea, now that the economy was waking up and the Government was beginning to loosen its protectionist bonds. Wendy's and Pizza Hut were doing a brisk business in Seoul. American fast foods were beginning to catch on. It would be like riding a surfboard, I thought: you want to get far enough out to catch the big wave.
So I passed the hat among friends, and with additional bank financing raised $400,000 to buy the franchise. As I was filing my application with the South Korean Ministry of Finance in September 1987, I knew that the elections in December might plunge the country into civil war. Believing that high risk spawns opportunity, I went ahead.
The permit came through in February 1988. I had persuaded the Ministry that I would be a symbol of entrepreneurship, competing for the consumer in the Koreans' own backyard, proving to the United States trade representatives that the Koreans could play fair after all.
But I had to yield on two non-tariff trade issues. The ministry directed me to share at least 25 percent of my enterprise with a Korean partner and to make my ice cream at a local Korean dairy rather than import it.
The big risk of political instability seemed to have evaporated by the time I opened my flagship store on July 29, 1988, in the gaudily commercial Itaewon district of central Seoul, just in time for the Olympics. The Koreans are wild about boxing, so I didn't think Pop would have minded my prominently displaying a huge picture of him in a 1920's fighter pose near the counter.
But over the next eight months, my path was to be studded with booby traps: bureaucratic red tape; visible and invisible import barriers; currency instability, and soaring inflation. Worst of all was the frosty Korean winter, which started in November and slashed the ice cream market by 60 percent. I was forced to install a small bakery as a line of defense against the eating habits of the Korean people, who are not accustomed to eating cold foods in frigid weather.
A turning point came last February when the food and beverage manager of the Seoul Hilton International Hotel came into the store and ''discovered'' our ice cream. Next thing I knew, he placed a big order for Hobson's to supply the hotel. We now supply several luxury hotels and private clubs in Seoul and Pusan. And I'm going ahead with plans to franchise stores and smaller retail outlets. As a one-man team on the spot rather than an emissary of a distant corporate organization, I have an advantage. I can be mobile and flexible, and know what the new Korean consumer is demanding from Monday to Sunday. Two months ago, a radical faction led some protests against Washington's continued trade pressure on Korea to open markets to American goods, but I remain optimistic. Anti-Americanism, I've discovered, does not get in the way of Koreans buying American consumer products.
With the goal of breaking into the black next year, I've been working 15 hours a day. That's nothing by Korean standards. This society has a mania for work, part of its Confucian heritage. Looking back over the last two years, I realize that I have relearned the work ethic. That's an edge we Americans no longer have. The United States is like a former champion who has lost his shape and form after attending too many banquets and receiving too many honors.
That's why I know Pop would have related to this venture. He was a self- made man, the son of a stevedore. It was his driving iron will, his determination to better himself, attended by the fear of humiliation should he fail, that made him succeed. That's what the Koreans are all about. They are unstoppable. Like my father. Like the United States, in the next round.

GRAPHIC: Jay R. Tunney with cutout photo of his father, Gene Tunney (George Mitchell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); HONG KONG (90%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PIZZA HUT INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); SURFING (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PROTECTIONISM (69%); TRENDS (68%); COAL INDUSTRY (56%); 

PERSON: TUNNEY, JAY R; TUNNEY, GENE (D) GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); 



69 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 58, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 3189 words

HEADLINE: NEW RISK TAKERS IN THE REALTY GAME

BYLINE: By Richard D. Lyons; Richard D. Lyons is a reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
CHARLOTTE BALLARD HAD A PROBLEM. It was the summer of 1987, and the real estate developer had paid $475,000 for a dilapidated four-story apartment building on West 116th Street. If she could successfully renovate it, she felt, she stood a good chance of turning a profit on a dozen other run-down properties that she and her partners had bought in Harlem.
But before work could start, the drug addicts and squatters in the building had to be cleared out. She hired a neighborhood man to do the job, but several days later he was shot to death. It turned out that he had been a member of the New Vigilantes gang, and Ballard was told that he had been killed by rival drug dealers. ''I found myself in the middle of a turf war,'' the 56-year-old developer recalls. ''I was taken aback. Indeed, I was scared.''
She obtained a New York City Department of Health order calling for the building to be vacated on grounds that it was unsafe and unsanitary, and she asked the Police Department to enforce the order. A group of officers met her outside the building, but they refused to help. So Charlotte Ballard, all 5 feet, 5 inches and 112 pounds of her, marched into the building alone. 
''I realized that if I gave up now I would lose the building and maybe my others as well,'' she says, ''so I went in with only a flashlight - there was no electric power - and found a drugged-out guy on the second floor. I said, 'We've got to get the hell out of here. This is it, old boy.' '' She picked up his television set, and he followed her down the stairs and out the door, cursing and yelling. By the time she was through, Ballard says, the building was emptied of squatters and addicts, and the police prevented them from returning.
Charlotte Ballard is among the growing number of determined women trying to make their mark in the rough-and-tumble world of buying properties for renovation or new construction. In years past, women could hope only to sell individual properties on commission; the developers, virtually all of them men, took the big risks and made the big deals and the big money.
But the nature of the industry has changed, with the emphasis shifting from brawn to brains. ''Thirty years ago,'' says Charles S. Laven, director of the Real Estate Development Program at Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, ''development was a guy putting up a building. Today it is a very complex process involving government approvals, legal issues and financing as well as architecture and construction.'' A third of the students who graduated from the Columbia program last June were women, as are one third of the students at the Real Estate Institute at New York University.
Ambitious women are seizing the opportunity to enter the development arena - though generally on a scale far removed from the giant projects of a Donald Trump or a William Zeckendorf Jr. Some of the newcomers are former bank loan officers or insurance company executives. Says Norman Weinberg, director of N. Y. U.'s Real Estate Institute: ''The dinosaurs in real estate now realize that tough, smart ladies are analyzing their loan and mortgage proposals, so the old boys are only too willing to admit women into the development side of the fence. They feel that the women have earned their way in.''
For three women who have been developing properties in New York with varying degrees of success, real estate has lived up to its reputation as the most perilous of investment games. Despite the risks, Anne Dalton, a Peace Corps volunteer who became a developer of urban apartment buildings and suburban houses, still considers development ''an art form that allows you to express yourself.'' Charlotte Ballard, a native white South African who is learning it takes more than good intentions to turn a profit renovating Harlem buildings, continues to call her work ''a form of social commitment.'' And Meile Rockefeller, the great-great-granddaughter of John D. Rockefeller who has renovated residential and commercial buildings in Manhattan and Brooklyn but has had trouble selling the properties, remains in development as a way to ''make it for myself in the world.''
CHARLOTTE BALLARD, WHO WAS BORN AND raised in Johannesburg, seems an improbable candidate for in the Harlem housing market. But she is feisty and outspoken. During a power breakfast of real estate luminaries in 1987, for example, she challenged assertions that it was impossible to make a profit from building affordable housing for the poor and middle class in New York City. When one developer suggested moving ''them'' to land outside the city, she shot back, ''You mean like Soweto?''
In 1956, recently divorced and the mother of an infant son, Ballard left her native land because, she says, ''South African girls are simply not prepared for careers, and I wanted a career.'' She headed to London to study economics and eventually joined an investment bank where she worked on real estate deals involving office blocks, housing developments and hotels in Europe, Africa and the Caribbean.
In 1964, Ballard arrived in the United States and married a San Francisco lawyer. The couple had three children, but Ballard was still determined to pursue a career. Over the next two decades, she held a variety of posts in investment banking and established a real estate investment firm. After her second marriage ended in divorce, she wed A. Verne Ballard, a businessman from San Diego. And in 1984 she began her real estate operations in New York. (The couple get together on weekends. ''I go there more than he comes here,'' she says, ''because he really doesn't like New York.'') In her first East Coast real estate venture, building town houses in Irvington, N. Y., Ballard says she and her investors doubled their money. Attracted by the opportunity to obtain renovation and development funds, in 1985 she began to buy Harlem properties, backed by West Coast banks, well-to-do friends and family money. In all, she says, Ballard Development Group Inc. has built or renovated about 270 housing units. She estimates she lost $250,000 on an apartment project on West 111th Street that she abandoned last year after the city withdrew its commitment to subsidize the renovation - and predicts she may soon lose another quarter of a million dollars on an unraveled plan to convert Harlem's Parkway Hospital into an intermediate-care facility for AIDS patients. But Ballard says her company has made about $4 million during the past four years. Some of the money, she adds, came from selling to other companies the Federal tax credits she received for renovating buildings in low-income neighborhoods.
When she sold the building on West 116th Street last July for $1.4 million, for example, the project also received $1.4 million in tax credits, which she has since sold. Ballard will not reveal how much she realized on the deal, but such credits typically sell for about 50 cents on the dollar.
It may be too soon to assess Ballard's impact. ''Charlotte Ballard came to West Harlem with the intention to do good, but without much guidance from local community groups,'' according to the leader of one nonprofit organization in Harlem, who says Ballard has sometimes misjudged the market.
In 1986, for example, The Community Preservation Corporation gave Ballard a $1.35 million construction loan to convert a building on 113th Street into low- and middle-income condominium units. But she was unable to find buyers for the apartments and subsequently sold the building to the state, which is using it as a mental-health facility.
Stanley Berman, an attorney whose firm has helped Ballard negotiate her way through the city and state bureaucracies on several of her projects, says the 113th Street units may have been priced too high. Renovating a building on a block with many other problems may not be enough to induce people to invest in a condominium, says Berman, ''no matter how beautiful it is.''
WHEN ANNE DALTON WAS A child, she used to look at maps and dream about leaving Woonsocket, R.I., for good. The old factory town, she says, ''depressed me even when I was 9 years old'' - and even though her father owned one of the factories.
She spent her college years close to home, majoring in music and education at Rhode Island College in Providence. But in 1966 Dalton joined the Peace Corps - ''out of a sense of adventure, not altruism,'' she says - and spent two years teaching elementary school in Liberia. Then she set out to explore Africa, South America and Europe on her own. Along the way, she sailed up the Amazon, played the piano in jazz bands in Paris, settled down for six months in the Canary Islands and for a year in Morocco, and crossed the Sahara. ''It was always, 'What do I do next?' '' she recalls.
Dalton's nomadic life style ended when she settled in New York in 1974, at the age of 31, and earned a master's degree in education from New York University. Within two years she had ventured into a popular downtown real estate game that was technically illegal but generally condoned by city officials. With money borrowed from friends, she would rent an industrial loft, make repairs, install a kitchen and bathroom, then sublet or reassign her lease to residential tenants and reap a ''fixture'' fee for the renovations.
''I did this about five times,'' Dalton says. ''The renovations generally cost about $15,000, and I charged the new renter from $30,000 to $50,000. It was a small opening in the world of New York real estate, and I walked through it.''
In 1985, she joined two partners - Michael LaBadie and Philip Mendlow - to form the L. M. Dalton Corporation, with Dalton as president. The company eventually bought three loft buildings in TriBeCa (an acronym for Triangle Below Canal Street), planning to renovate them into condominium units.
A few months later, Dalton was in a lawyer's office in Poughkeepsie when a broker told her that a parking lot next to the lofts was going to be sold that afternoon. ''Having the parking lot meant we could build a new building in addition to renovating the lofts,'' she explains. ''Because of the city's zoning regulations, there are very few opportunities to build new residential buildings in TriBeCa.''
Dalton and her partners snapped up the parking lot and made plans to build an 11-story luxury apartment house on the site. But first they had to raise the capital, and they had never put up an apartment building from scratch. (The loft buildings had cost L. M. Dalton $2.1 million, the parking lot $3.5 million. Building an 11-story building would take about $9 million.) ''We were turned down by dozens and dozens of banks, over and over again,'' Dalton says ruefully. ''We had to compile literally volumes of material in support of our loan applications. We began to feel like a publishing house.''
But Dalton is persistent. If everything else fails, she says, ''I've had temper tantrums, cried and yelled. And if I have to, I'll stand on my head to get something done.'' Finally, she received $18 million in construction loans from the Lincoln Savings Bank and Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company. ''Lincoln Savings convinced Manny Hanny to go along with the financing,'' Dalton says.
The apartment building was to be erected on the parking lot, an irregularly shaped property roughly 80 by 100 feet. But Dalton discovered that a small strip in the middle of the site, measuring just 7 by 80 feet, remained zoned for manufacturing, even though the rest of this part of TriBeCa had been rezoned for residential use.
Changing the strip's zoning classification required the approval of Manhattan Community Board 1, the City Planning Commission and the Board of Estimate. The effort cost L. M. Dalton $400,000 for legal and consulting fees and the carrying costs on its loans as a result of the year-long delay. ''It was the city's oversight,'' Dalton says, ''but we had to suffer for it.''
The complex is called Dalton on Greenwich. The new apartment building contains 72 units, ranging from studios, which sell for as much as $280,000, to three-bedroom apartments, which go for up to $650,000. All but four of the apartments have been sold. The loft buildings have been converted into 12 condominium apartments. Eight have been purchased, the most expensive selling for $700,000.
Dalton turned next to the development of Washington Ridge Conservancy, a group of 22 single-family houses in New Milford, Conn. (She and her husband-partner Michael LaBadie, whom she married in 1987, and their two children spend weekends in their Bauhaus-style country house in that town.) The downturn in the Connecticut housing market, however, has forced Dalton to proceed cautiously with Washington Ridge. Her company has built and sold only two of the $700,000 houses. Another L. M. Dalton project, Dalton Farm, is planned as a development of 540 single-family houses and town houses in Beekman, N.Y., on a farm bought in 1985 from Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. Some 30 units have been presold, for between $140,000 and $250,000, Dalton says.
''It sometimes takes five, six, even seven years to get approval for such a large project from the State Department of Environmental Conservation,'' Dalton comments. ''There are zoning, sewage, drainage and utilities to consider. Some people who may not want the project take little pieces of the environmental impact statement you have to file and try to bring suit against the project, alleging some infraction of an almost endless set of rules.''
One environmental suit brought by a group of Beekman residents, Dalton says, cost the company $600,000 in legal fees. The hearings were heated - on one occasion there was a fistfight in the courtroom - but she prevailed.
Anne Dalton says she enjoys the real estate business because it involves ''getting my hands dirty and coming home with plaster dust in my hair.'' She insists she has not felt intimidated by the male domination of the business. She suspects that her height - she's 5 feet, 10 inches tall - may have helped. She says, ''I've never had trouble being taken seriously.''
I KNEW FROM VERY EARLY ON,'' says Meile Rockefeller, ''that I wanted to go into real estate.'' It could not have come as much of a surprise to her parents, Rodman C. Rockefeller and Barbara Ann Olsen Rockefeller. John D. Rockefeller Jr., Meile's great-grandfather, developed Rockefeller Center in the depths of the Depression, and her grandfather, Nelson, was responsible for leasing office space in the center.
During the summer before her freshman year at Williams College, Meile Rockefeller worked as an intern with New York's Battery Park City Authority. And she took a year off from college to serve another internship, this time with the planning commission for Manhattan's now moribund Westway highway project.
After her graduation in 1979, with a degree in political economics, Rockefeller worked briefly for a small development firm in Dallas. Then she set up her own development company, Anthemion Inc., and took a suite of offices in - where else? - Rockefeller Center. (She changed the company name to Rockefeller Properties in 1985.) Her first venture was the conversion of a brownstone rooming house in Brooklyn Heights into five cooperative apartments. The project, completed in 1983, gave her ''a lot of hands-on experience,'' she says - but very little profit.
She soon found that ''having the Rockefeller name can be a two-edged sword. It gives me accessibility. But some people might think it glamorous to have me in a deal. If I sense that, I won't get involved. I want to be known for what I do, not for what others have done.'' In 1985, Rockefeller purchased the century-old Mercantile Exchange building in TriBeCa for $4.1 million. The building, which had once housed the offices of dairy brokers, contained a 10,000-square-foot trading floor with a 30-foot-high ceiling. Rockefeller renovated the building into seven commercial condominiums while retaining much of its historic flavor. ''I was not about to tear down that lovely old building,'' the 33-year-old developer says.
At one point, Rockefeller says, she had a chance to sell the entire structure and realize a $2 million profit, but the deal was contingent upon the buyer taking possession before certain depreciation provisions of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 took effect. She encountered one construction delay after another. The New York Telephone Company, for example, took months to bury a trunk line beneath the basement floor. ''I was ready to take an ax and chop the thing off myself,'' she says. ''Of course, it would have cut off telephone service to the whole block, but in retrospect I should have done it.'' The deadline passed, and the deal fell through.
The renovation of the exchange was completed in 1988 at a cost of about $3 million, but only four of the seven units have been sold. Still on the market is the former trading floor, now a two-story commercial condominium with a premium price tag of $250 per square foot. Rockefeller does not expect to make a profit on the project, given its high cost and the depressed state of the office-condominium market. But then, one advantage of being a Rockefeller, she allows, ''is not having to squeeze the last nickel out of a deal if I feel there might be other considerations, such as the preservation of a building that is architecturally significant.''
In 1985, the same year she purchased the Mercantile Exchange, Rockefeller also bought a 102-year-old TriBeCa building on Duane Street that had once been a cheese factory, planning to renovate the five-story structure for residential condominiums. She obtained a permit from the Department of Buildings to add extra rooms to the two penthouse apartments.
Then the official who had approved the permit was replaced, and Rockefeller was informed that she would have to eliminate the extra rooms because they violated the zoning laws. ''Finding out that a building permit is not a binding legal document cost me $150,000,'' she says. ''It cost $50,000 to put in the rooms, $50,000 to fight the denial of the original approval and $50,000 to redo the rooms to new specifications.''
The project, which was completed in 1987, contains six apartments, including two penthouses of about 3,500 square feet each, priced just under $1 million. Three of the apartments have been sold, as has one of two ground-floor commercial units. Rockefeller says she will not show a profit until the building's remaining units have been sold.
Last summer, Rockefeller decided to put her company ''temporarily on the shelf.'' She has become a consultant for a West German development company, which she declined to identify except to say it has ''very deep pockets.''
For the West German company, she is overseeing renovations and new construction in the New York area, and she hopes to ''learn how to manage successful partnership arrangements.'' Being a one-person show has its limits, she says: ''Almost nobody does a major development project completely on their own.''

GRAPHIC: Melle Rockefeller in the Mercantile Exchange she converted into commercial condominiums (pg. 58); Charlotte Ballard in one of the Harlem apartment buildings she is renovating; Anne Dalton outside the 11-story luxury apartment house she built in TriBeCa (pg. 59) (Brad Trent/Outline)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT & INVESTMENT CO (51%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; WOMEN REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); 

PERSON: LYONS, RICHARD D; BALLARD, CHARLOTTE; DALTON, ANNE; ROCKEFELLER, MEILE RICHARD D BALLARD (71%); 



70 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 60, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 2670 words

HEADLINE: CONJURING UP THE 1990's

BYLINE: By Jeffrey E. Garten; As a State Department official in the 1970's, Jeffrey E. Garten could never have predicted that he would spend the 80's as an investment banker.

 BODY:
SOOTHSAYING HAS A long and checkered history, and the year-end predictions of economic soothsayers generally fare no better than the rest. How much more chancy is the task of the end-of-decade forecaster! Yet there is one clue to the proper approach, provided by the astounding record of the last 10 years: think boldly.
Transport yourself back to the waning days of 1979. Inflation was into double digits, unemployment a big worry. Banks fretted in the straitjackets that had been designed for them by Congress in the 1930's. Leveraged buyouts were rare; junk bonds slumbered in the backwaters of finance. The economies of Mexico, Brazil and Venezuela were growing apace, the United States was the world's largest creditor and Japan was running trade deficits.
Who could have foreseen with any confidence that, over the next decade, the economy would be transformed by massive waves of debt-fueled takeovers? Who could have predicted that a business boom could last seven years, barely missing a beat even when the world was jolted by the biggest stock market crash since 1929? How many seers knew that Japan would be running annual trade surpluses approaching $100 billion and that the United States would become the world's biggest debtor? Or that much of Latin America would be bankrupt? As for Mikhail Gorbachev embracing Adam Smith . . . 
Yet the seeds of those remarkable turnarounds were there in 1979 for anyone to see. And if the past is any guide, the coming decade could knock your socks off. Cautious soothsayers take heed. In that spirit, herewith a handful of scenarios, outrageous perhaps, but rooted in today's realities.
OVER THE LAST DECADE, pension funds have grown by some 500 percent. They now hold more than $2 trillion in assets, equivalent to 40 percent of the equity in all publicly traded companies, and that may rise to 66 percent by the end of the next decade. Meanwhile, our rate of private investment is at its lowest level in nearly half a century, and most of that is short term. By all accounts, the nation desperately needs a quantum increase in long-term investment in factories, research and education. In the 1990's, Washington may very well conclude that there is only one way to go: tap the pension funds.
Like nearly everyone else, managers of pension funds have a short-term horizon. They are under enormous pressure from their boards to match the performance of the stock market on a quarterly basis. They are also constrained by a web of Federal and state laws designed to safeguard workers' post-retirement income; these laws are typically interpreted to exclude long-term investments outside the securities and real estate markets. But a quarter-to-quarter investment strategy limited to the stock market does little to cure our national economic ills.
In the 1990's, we may find the Government pressing pension funds to drastically increase their long-term investments in the nation's productivity - putting their money to work modernizing existing industries and financing new business ventures. The funds might also be urged to invest in education through for-profit research organizations or in the rebuilding of the nation's infrastructure, with repayment by means of highway tolls and port fees. A glimmer of the future can already be seen in California, New York and Pennsylvania, where pension funds have been encouraged to invest in small and medium-sized companies that create new jobs in the states. In fact, some prominent lawmakers have recently talked about using the tax system to push the funds in a long-term direction.
In addition to its larger purpose, such pension fund investment could also benefit future retirees because the value of the securities held by the funds would almost certainly grow along with a more vigorous economy. The retirees might be protected in such a program by Government guarantees of some respectable long-term financial return.
PLAGUED BY DRUGS AND CRIME, drained by the needs of AIDS patients, the homeless, the tattered educational system, New York City seems well on the way to a replay of the financial crisis of the 1970's. This time around, however, there is considerably less fat to cut, taxes are already out of sight and the bankers are unlikely to come to New York City's rescue. Neither is the Federal Government, which is drowning in its own indebtedness. Before the 1990's are over, New York might have to follow a course pioneered by Argentina and Mexico: privatization.
The notion that New York might turn over a major chunk of its municipal services to be run by private business might strike many as a cure worse than the disease. But the benefits could be enormous. The city would be relieved of the cost of providing these services and, by adding the profit motive, might even find the work gets done more efficiently.
There are lots of straws in the wind. Around the country, cities are hiring corporations to take over management of their prisons, parks and municipal hospitals. New Yorkers who can afford it already are paying businesses to provide alternatives to much- strained municipal services, from privately operated emergency ambulances to platoons of security guards.
With his renovation of the city's Wollman skating rink, and his offer to repair the crumbling Williamsburg Bridge, Donald Trump provided the most trumpeted example of high-net-worth impatience with New York services. And short of supernatural intervention, the ever-tighter municipal budgets of the next decade are likely to leave the mass of voters open to any solution - even the prospect of having their schools run as businesses or their subways, buses and airports turned over to private investors.
Private contractors could cut the annual cost of repaving streets by $64 million, according to an analysis by E. S. Savas, chairman of the management department at Baruch College and a former assistant secretary at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. He also argues that privatizing garbage collection could save almost $200 million. Savas estimates that contracting out these and similar services could slash about 25 percent from the city's $26.6 billion annual budget.
 
MISSION IMPLAUSIBLE
The turmoil in the Soviet Union is ominous, and the economy seems on the verge of collapse. Chances are President Bush will end up organizing a multibillion-dollar international bailout. It could happen soon, and this could be the scenario:
As food shortages mount and perestroika is ripped apart by skyrocketing inflation and virulent corruption, a hard-line military clique tries to unseat the current Government. In the struggle for power, Mikhail Gorbachev calls on Washington, Bonn and Tokyo for loans, and for the bread, clothing and computers he desperately needs to show the Russian people that he really can raise their standard of living.
The Western nations, faced with the possibility of a new Stalinist regime and a return to the Cold War, would have little choice. Back in 1918, Allied forces landed in Siberia in a move against the Bolsheviks, who had just seized power. This time around, we would be sending money instead of troops, and that might prove to be more successful. If not, the Russian bailout of the 90's could make the Latin American debt fiasco of the 80's look like a petty-cash problem.
 
LITTLE BIG BOARD
By the year 2000, the stock market may be a shadow of its former self. The transformation is already well under way.
It all used to be so simple. The stock exchanges provided the most efficient means for a corporation to raise funds, selling its shares to individuals and institutions.
Now companies are taking a different tack. Instead of going public, many of them are obtaining capital by offering their stock directly to insurance companies, investment banks and leveraged buyout firms. Some are entering into joint ventures with larger organizations. Meanwhile, many public companies are buying back their own stock, and some are going private. Over the last five years, shares valued at more than $200 billion have been retired from the nation's exchanges.
Junk-bond buyouts have played a major role in the process, and their popularity seems to be fading. But the trend toward going, or staying, private is likely to continue. Private companies can achieve greater flexibility and efficiency, the argument goes, because they do not have to gear their strategies to short- term earnings or the possibility of a takeover. They also are spared the expense and red tape that public companies are obliged to endure because of Government reporting requirements, shareholder meetings and the like.
Of course, the stock market is not going to disappear. Companies in high-risk industries such as biotechnology will not be able to raise enough money from private sources; they will need to tap the public markets and their thousands of individual investors, each of whom is taking a relatively small gamble. But by the turn of the century, the Big Board may not be so big.
 
NATIONALIZING OIL
At the beginning of this decade, Ronald Reagan set out to dismantle the Department of Energy. Before George Bush leaves office, he may find himself giving the D.O.E. whatever power it needs to manage the de facto nationalization of the energy industry. The inspiration: oil shortages and price rises that would make the energy crunch of the 1970's seem mild by comparison.
The trends are ominous. Domestic drilling is way down, off-shore exploration is stalled because of environmental concerns, construction of nuclear power plants is at a standstill. During the first three quarters of this year, oil imports represented 46.5 percent of the nation's total consumption - 10 percent more than for the whole of 1973, the year of the OPEC embargo. If oil supplies from the Middle East are once again disrupted, if high energy prices threaten to put the economy in reverse gear, how will the President respond?
He might very well call upon the Secretary of Energy to take charge. Backed by new tax incentives and penalties, the D.O.E. could push the big oil companies into huge drilling programs and revised production strategies. Sites such as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge could be opened up for oil exploration. High gasoline taxes would be just one possible means of curbing energy consumption; others would alter the hours we work or the location of new factories. With consumers pitted against producers, and one region of the country against the other, energy may once again become the nation's most divisive issue.
 
HAIL TO THE TSAR
For banks and securities firms alike, the risks of dealing in international markets require long arms and deep pockets. And these days ''global'' is beginning to sound a lot like ''gobble.'' The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank has acquired Marine Midland, Nippon Life Insurance Company has bought a big chunk of Shearson Lehman Hutton and Deutsche Bank is buying up banks and securities firms around Europe. As deregulation proceeds in the United States, Japan and Europe, the permutations and combinations will inevitably multiply.
By the end of the next decade, finance may be dominated by a dozen global behemoths with such names as Sumitomo Chemical, Prudential Paribas and Dresdner Smith Barney. They would represent the ultimate challenge for regulators. Just how could the government agencies of any one nation oversee the operations of multinational entities as they move their business from time zone to time zone and juggle their accounts in dollars, yen and marks? A new, Tokyo-based institution would be established, called something like The Supranational Agency for Regulation - TSAR for short.
In cooperation with national agencies, TSAR would seek to prevent money laundering, insider trading and currency manipulation. It would also set some minimal level of reserves to cushion the impact of losses, since the failure of one financial conglomerate could send the world economy into a tailspin.
 
AVE ATQUE, G.M.
The American automotive industry as we have known it could disappear before the next decade is over. There may still be companies called General Motors, Ford and Chrysler. They may still be selling cars called Chevrolet, Lincoln and Plymouth. But virtually all of the cars would be manufactured overseas - or in American-based factories owned by Japanese, Koreans and Europeans.
What about Detroit's much- touted revival over the last few years? It's been fun listening to Lee Iacocca's pep talks, but those rosy sales figures mask real, underlying problems. Sales have been pumped up by offering customers huge rebates, and with the help of Government limits on imported cars. Even the dramatic drop in the value of the dollar against the yen and the mark, giving American-made products a substantial price advantage, has failed to stem the move to foreign cars.
About 40 percent of the autos sold in the United States today are manufactured by foreign companies. We know what Honda and Toyota have done to the market for compact cars. And now the Japanese are assaulting the luxury-car market.
The Big Three have been closing automotive plants and scrambling to enter other businesses. General Motors bought Hughes Aircraft and Electronic Data Systems. Ford acquired a number of savings banks. Meanwhile, the Japanese, who had no auto-production facilities in the United States in 1980, have built eight state- of-the-art plants and some 150 factories to produce transmissions, engines and other components.
When the Japanese plants in the United States achieve full production in the middle of the next decade, the industry will have an excess capacity of some three million cars, assuming current levels of production by the Big Three. Something will have to give, and it's not apt to be the Japanese. Unless there are some remarkable changes in today's trends, only a miracle will allow Detroit to keep building cars in the United States. Add in a recession or a jump in energy prices that would send Americans scampering for more fuel-efficient cars, and even a miracle might not suffice.
 
JOKER IN THE DECK
These scenarios assume a continuation of what has been the most remarkable economic phenomenon of the 1980's - the Japanese juggernaut. There's just one problem: during the next decade, the juggernaut may run out of steam.
Japan's economic power is based upon a mountain of cash, which in turn is based upon a very high rate of savings on the part of Japanese citizens and a huge excess of exports over imports. After World War II, the Japanese saved because they had known poverty and despair, and because they didn't trust their Government to provide for their future. They spent next to nothing on consumer goods. Meanwhile, Government and industry were sinking every spare yen into making products for export.
The members of the new generation have known prosperity and, in their time, the nation has created a strong welfare system. The chances are good that the Japanese people are about to become big-time spenders. And the political leaders are already showing the way.
For all the complaints about protectionism, Japanese imports of food and manufactured goods are increasing dramatically. Foreign aid is soaring. The phenomenal growth in travel by the Japanese has produced a major outflow of funds, projected to exceed $20 billion next year.
Meanwhile, the people are clamoring for long-delayed improvements in housing, roads and sewer facilities. The cost of caring for the elderly - whose ranks are growing more rapidly than in any other industrial nation - is apt to double or triple.
Japan is not going to cease being one of the major industrial powers. But given the likelihood of a significant drop in savings, and a closer balance between imports and exports, Japan's global clout may soon peak.
That possibility may complicate the life of a soothsayer, but it should make a lot of Americans breathe easier.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETIES ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TAKEOVERS (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (67%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (55%); 

PERSON: GARTEN, JEFFREY E ADAM SMITH (55%); 



71 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 49, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 5924 words

HEADLINE: NOTABLE BOOKS OF THE YEAR

 BODY:
This list has been selected from books reviewed since the Christmas issue of December 1988. It suggests only high points in the main fields of reader interest, and it does not include the titles chosen by the editors of The Book Review as the Best Books of 1989. Books are arranged alphabetically under subject headings. Quoted comments are from The Book Review.
 
Autobiography and Biography
 THE AMBITION AND THE POWER. By John M. Barry. (Viking, $22.95.) This story of the rise and fall of Jim Wright, Speaker of the House, ''is an important accomplishment'' written by ''a fair and uncompromised observer.''
AMELIA EARHART: A Biography. By Doris L. Rich. (Smithsonian Institution, $19.95.) The author, a journalist and photographer, ''writes . . . parsimoniously and . . . colorfully'' about the life of the aviator who captured the country's imagination. 
AND THE WALLS CAME TUMBLING DOWN: An Autobiography. By Ralph David Abernathy. (Harper & Row, $22.50.) A colorful, controversial, earthy, often humorous account of the civil rights movement, written by a man who was at its center. ''His storytelling is gripping, even moving.''
THE ANDY WARHOL DIARIES. Edited by Pat Hackett. (Warner Books, $29.95.) A half-million words on nearly everything. ''Despite their virtuoso triviality, their naive snobbery and their incredible length, the diaries of Andy Warhol are not without a certain charm.''
BALM IN GILEAD: Journey of a Healer. By Sara Lawrence Lightfoot. (Merloyd Lawrence/Addison-Wesley, $18.95.) ''A daughter's loving biography of her mother,'' the pioneering child psychiatrist Dr. Margaret Morgan Lawrence, that records ''her long journey, as a gifted and accomplished black woman, across the rugged terrain of race and gender in America.''
BEHIND THE MOUNTAIN: Return to Tasmania. By Peter Conrad. (Poseidon, $18.95.) ''Sublime writing . . . memorable metaphors and . . . sere wit'' characterize this memoir of the author's childhood.
BERNARD SHAW. Volume Two: 1898-1918. The Pursuit of Power. By Michael Holroyd. (Random House, $24.95.) In this second volume of the playwright's biography, focusing on Shaw as a political fighter, he ''emerges as a man more baffled than triumphant in his quest.''
BITTER FAME: A Life of Sylvia Plath. By Anne Stevenson. (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) A biography of the poet, a suicide at age 30, that attempts to exonerate Plath's maligned family. ''In the work of sorting out these truths, half-truths and inventions, this new biography is a significant step.''
THE BROKEN CORD. By Michael Dorris. (Harper & Row, $18.95.) A painful personal chronicle of the writer's discovery that his adopted child is afflicted by fetal alcohol syndrome and a searing look at ''the condition that has blighted his son's life,'' written in ''clear and affecting'' prose.
THE BRONTES: Charlotte Bronte and Her Family. By Rebecca Fraser. (Crown, $25.) A look at the author of ''Jane Eyre'' ''as she appeared to her contemporaries. . . . A social historian's sense of place is everywhere present in this biography, and a novelist's imaginative feeling for detail.''
DAUGHTER OF DESTINY: An Autobiography. By Benazir Bhutto. (Simon & Schuster, $21.95.) A ''fascinating portrait'' of Pakistan's Prime Minister and her family.
FELIX FENEON: Aesthete & Anarchist in Fin-de-Siecle Paris. By Joan Ungersma Halperin. (Yale University, $35.) A ''detailed and fascinating biography of the contradictory and enigmatic'' critic of art and literature.
FIORELLA H. LA GUARDIA AND THE MAKING OF MODERN NEW YORK. By Thomas Kessner. (McGraw-Hill, $24.95.) ''This is a biography of a petty, petulant, often unpleasant little man who, with the passage of time, has come to be regarded as New York City's greatest mayor,'' written with ''sweep and lucidity.''
FORBIDDEN TERRITORY: The Memoirs of Juan Goytisolo, 1931-1956. Translated by Peter Bush. (North Point, $18.95.) The early life of one of Spain's leading novelists. ''It is against wanton destruction that Mr. Goytisolo writes. . . . Beneath his anger . . . there lies a belief in human survival.''
GEORGIA O'KEEFFE: A Life. By Roxana Robinson. (Edward Burlingame/Harper & Row, $25.) A portrait of the artist that is both ''levelheaded and protective''; it ''does much to give body to the O'Keeffe myth.''
GLENN GOULD: A Life and Variations. By Otto Friedrich. (Random House, $24.95.) A senior writer for Time writes a biography of the pianist that is ''touching, intriguing and ultimately tragic.''
GOLDWYN: A Biography. By A. Scott Berg. (Knopf, $24.95.) An ''absorbing biography, thick with amusing anecdote'' about the driven movie producer.
GINSBERG: A Biography. By Barry Miles. (Simon & Schuster, $24.95.) A ''skillful,'' fact-filled life of the courageous, deliberately ridiculous poet - and hero of our time. ''Read it; you'll enjoy yourself.''
GOLDEN INCHES: The China Memoir of Grace Service. Edited by John S. Service. (University of California, $19.95.) A ''wonderful, sad, moving memoir by an indomitable American who went to China with her husband'' to further the work of the Y.M.C.A. in that country.
THE GOOD TIMES. By Russell Baker. (Morrow, $19.95.) The New York Times columnist recounts his life as a reporter. ''A superb autobiography, wonderfully told, often hilarious, always intelligent and unsparing.''
HARP. By John Gregory Dunne. (Simon & Schuster, $18.95.) The autobiography of the Irish-American writer. ''He can wrench bleak emotions. . . . If you start the book you'll likely stay to the end, gripped by verbal resource or else by sheer morbidity.''
HATTIE: The Life of Hattie McDaniel. By Carlton Jackson. (Madison Books, $18.95.) A ''poignantly sympathetic biography'' of the actress, the first black artist to win an Academy Award. ''Mr. Jackson has succeeded enormously in writing a caring biography of a multitalented woman.''
HEMINGWAY IN LOVE AND WAR: The Lost Diary of Agnes von Kurowsky, Her Letters, and Correspondence of Ernest Hemingway. By Henry Serrano Villard and James Nagel. (Northeastern University, $21.95.) ''As well as serving as a corrective to literal readings of 'A Farewell to Arms,' the diary either directly or inferentially fills out the personality'' of Hemingway, a fantasist and self-mythologizer.
HIROHITO: Behind the Myth. By Edward Behr. (Villard, $22.50.) The biography of Japan's last Emperor is ''a thoughtful and appropriate challenge to the orthodoxy of the blameless Emperor that has prevailed in many English-speaking circles.''
HONORABLE JUSTICE: The Life of Oliver Wendell Holmes. By Sheldon M. Novick. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) ''The first full biography based on unrestricted access to the Holmes papers. . . . As chapter follows masterly chapter . . . hopes mature into admiration of author and awe of subject.''
THE IRON LADY: A Biography of Margaret Thatcher. By Hugo Young. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) ''With patience and comprehension,'' a veteran political journalist tells the story of Britain's Prime Minister in ''a model political biography.''
ISARA: A Voyage Around ''Essay.'' By Wole Soyinka. (Random House, $18.95.) The Nobel Prize-winning playwright and author of ''Ake'' continues his family story with a ''homage to his father'' and life in the Nigeria of 50 years ago; the book ''supplies the essential ingredient missing from history books - not only the Zeitgeist, but the heart that propels the spirit.''
LET THEM CALL ME REBEL: Saul Alinsky - His Life and Legacy. By Sanford D. Horwitt. (Knopf, $29.95.) ''A highly readable, exhaustively researched biography that is full of both playful anecdote and thoughtful political analysis'' about the legendary community organizer.
LEWIS MUMFORD: A Life. By Donald L. Miller. (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, $24.95.) The first full-length biography of the architect, urban activist and man of letters, written by a professor of history at Lafayette College. ''The value of this biography is its painstaking and competent assemblage of sources.''
THE LIFE AND DEATH OF ANDY WARHOL. By Victor Bockris. (Bantam, $21.95.) One of ''the best so far in an encroaching flood of Warholiana. . . . The one to read for knowledge of Warhol the man.''
THE LIFE OF GRAHAM GREENE. Volume One: 1904-1939. By Norman Sherry. (Viking, $29.95). The first installment of this thoughtful and ambitious biography of the writer ''provide[s] special satisfactions.''
LOST IN TRANSLATION: A Life in a New Language. By Eva Hoffman. (Dutton, $18.95.) An editor of The Book Review takes ''a sad, remorseful yet bright-eyed look backward'' to her childhood in Poland and her emigration to the United States. ''Thanks to its honesty, its bravery and its good humor, it is a book that repairs the very loss it laments.''
MARY SHELLEY: Romance and Reality. By Emily W. Sunstein. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) ''This [book] promises to be the definitive biography'' of the author of ''Frankenstein'' and wife of Percy Bysshe Shelley.
MILES: The Autobiography. By Miles Davis with Quincy Troupe. (Simon & Schuster, $22.95.) The ''profusely detailed, exceedingly candid and eminently readable'' story of the life and times of the musician whose ''siren call . . . abides as one of the most seductive in the music of this century.''
MOTHERWIT: An Alabama Midwife's Story. By Onnie Lee Logan as told to Katherine Clark. (Dutton, $16.95.) This oral biography ''reaffirm[s] the black woman's time-honored role in the ancient practice of midwifery. And the great American quilt of diversity gets another colorful square.''
NIXON: Volume Two. The Triumph of a Politician, 1962-1972. By Stephen E. Ambrose. An evenhanded, reliable examination of Mr. Nixon's second rise, from his defeat for Governor of California through two victories as President. ''What sets this book apart is Mr. Ambrose's commanding grasp of material.''
OUR KIND OF PEOPLE: The Story of an American Family. By Jonathan Yardley. (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, $21.95.) A family remembrance that ''reads like a first-rate novel,'' by a book critic for The Washington Post.
OURS: A Russian Family Album. By Sergei Dovlatov. Translated by Anne Frydman. (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, $15.95.) ''Stalin dominates . . . this series of portraits'' of the author's family and homeland. ''The book is remarkable for its lack of acrimony, bitterness or even indignation.''
A PLACE FOR US. By Nicholas Gage. (Marc Jaffe/Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) The author of ''Eleni'' picks up his own story of emigration to Worcester, Mass. ''A warm-hearted, likable contribution to its genre.''
PAUL ROBESON: A Biography. By Martin Bauml Duberman. (Knopf, $24.95.) ''The glorious and tragic life of Paul Robeson is a poignant, gripping story. . . . Mr. Duberman has written a superb biography of a great man.''
RICHARD MILHOUS NIXON: The Rise of an American Politician. By Roger Morris. (Holt, $29.95.) The initial work in a projected three-volume biography is filled with insightful and absorbing detail about the former President's early life. ''A massive, powerful biography.''
THE ROAD FROM COORAIN. By Jill Ker Conway. (Knopf, $18.95.) ''The historian and former president of Smith College, who grew up on a sheep station [in Australia], has written a remarkable memoir.''
SAYING GOODBYE: A Memoir for Two Fathers. By M. R. Montgomery. (Knopf, $18.95.) A writer for The Boston Globe tells the life stories of his father and father-in-law in a ''retrained but deeply moving book, a model of good prose.''
SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS: Memoirs. By John Updike. (Knopf, $18.95.) Parts of a life, as related by the novelist. ''His best writing . . . is the prose of rapture. . . . It is good to see a writer enjoying his talent and his luck.''
SKETCHES FROM A LIFE. By George F. Kennan. (Pantheon, $22.95.) ''Beautifully written diaries'' from a man considered ''the last of the architects of postwar American foreign policy.''
THE SOUND OF WINGS: The Life of Amelia Earhart. By Mary S. Lovell. (St. Martin's, $22.95.) The author of ''Straight On Till Morning: The Biography of Beryl Markham'' turns her attention to the first woman to cross the Atlantic by air, in a story that offers ''fascinating detail . . . on Earhart's relationship with her husband,'' George Palmer Putnam, the man who helped to make her famous.
STORMY APPLAUSE: Making Music in a Worker's State. By Rostislav Dubinsky. (Hill & Wang, $22.95.) A ''lively memoir'' written by the Soviet musician and first violinist of the Borodin Quartet, covering the period between 1945 and 1975.
THIS BOY'S LIFE: A Memoir. By Tobias Wolff. (Atlantic Monthly, $18.95.) The author of ''The Barracks Thief'' tells his own story in a memoir that is ''literate and consistently entertaining - and richer, darker and funnier than anything else Tobias Wolff has written.''
WHEN HEAVEN AND EARTH CHANGED PLACES: A Vietnamese Woman's Journey From War to Peace. By Le Ly Hayslip with Jay Wurts. (Doubleday, $18.95.) ''A searing and human account of Vietnam's destruction and self-destruction. Lucidly, sometimes even lyrically, Ms. Hayslip paints an intensely intimate portrait.''
 
Children
 BILL PEET: An Autobiography. Written and illustrated by Bill Peet. (Houghton Mifflin, $16.95.) A ''marvelous new species,'' this ''child's storybook'' that is also ''the memoir of an adult'' describes the life of the well-known children's book author who worked as an illustrator for Walt Disney from the making of ''Dumbo'' until ''Mary Poppins.'' (Ages 8 to 12) DOES GOD HAVE A BIG TOE? Stories About Stories in the Bible. By Marc Gellman. Illustrated by Oscar de Mejo. (Harper & Row, $14.95.) This joyful collection ''is in the tradition of the midrashim: stories, allegories, fables whose purpose is to interpret and illuminate the fixed narrative of the Scripture.'' They have ''the ring of folk-fables and the wit of a single, affectionate heart.'' (All Ages) LISA'S WAR. By Carol Matas. (Scribners, $12.95.) In her fine novel set in Copenhagen during the years of the Nazi occupation, the author is able to pose ''sophisticated concerns with an honorable simplicity.'' The central character, a young girl, joins the Resistance. (Ages 12 and up) NED AND THE JOYBALOO. By Hiawyn Oram. Illustrated by Satoshi Kitamura. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $11.95.) Ned finds a Joybaloo in the linen closet and, in a glorious fantasy, the little boy and his imagination soar. Dazzling illustrations capture the child and his playmate. (Ages 3 to 8) MAMMAL. By Steve Parker. (Knopf, $12.95.) The ''Eyewitness'' series of science books imported from England set a remarkable standard ''integrating text and illustration in a graphically exciting and intellectually enticing way.'' This stunning volume includes ''a remarkable photographic sequence'' showing a cat giving birth. (Ages 9 and up) THE OLD SYNAGOGUE. Written and illustrated by Richard Rosenblum. (Edward E. Elson/Jewish Publication Society, $12.95.) In this simple story book the author and illustrator conveys ''the complexities of both urban and religious life with great clarity and charm.'' (Ages 6 and up) SHABANU. Daughter of the Wind. By Suzanne Fisher Staples. (Knopf, $13.95.) The heroine of this novel set in the Cholistan Desert on the Indian-Pakistani border is 12. Her account of one year ''meticulously documents the rigors and tribulations of nomadic life, as well as the narrator's flowering from a child into a spirited young woman.'' (Ages 12 and up) SWAN LAKE. By Margot Fonteyn. Illustrated by Trina Schart Hyman. (Gulliver/Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $14.95.) The plot of the popular ballet is retold in ''by far the most suggestive, complete and authoritative'' fashion in the slim, elegantly illustrated story book. (All Ages) THE TRUE STORY OF THE 3 LITTLE PIGS. By Jon Scieszka. Illustrated by Lane Smith. (Viking Kestrel, $13.95.) Are we to blame A. Wolf ''because, while on an errand to borrow sugar from his porcine neighbors, he happened to sneeze a few times''? The ''excited and funky'' illustrations match the hilarious revisionist text to a standard story. (Ages 3 to 8) THE TUB PEOPLE. By Pam Conrad. Illustrated by Richard Egielski. (Harper & Row, $12.95.) The seven painted wooden figures live ''in and about a bathtub and every day they frolic in the water and ride on a soap bar.'' In this small drama for preschoolers, ''the tension between the text and the pictures rivets'' young readers. (Ages 4 to 8)
 
Crime
 THE DEATH OF A JOYCE SCHOLAR. By Bartholomew Gill. (Morrow, $18.95.) The chief superintendent of Dublin's murder squad discovers his kinship with Leopold Bloom while hunting down the killer of a Joycean. ''An affectionate acquaintance with Joyce's Dubliners adds considerably to the pleasures of this profoundly clever literary mystery.''
THE FOURTH DURANGO. By Ross Thomas. (Mysterious Press, $18.95.) The tiny town of Durango, Calif., is the perfect hideout for a man with a price on his head - in this case, a judge who's been framed. ''We already know how witty Mr. Thomas can be about entrepreneurial greed and political chicanery,'' but his depiction of Durango ''is a revelation.''
JUICE. By Robert Campbell. (Poseidon, $18.95.) When nations owe other nations billions of dollars, what is there to say about a guy who's into a loan shark for $2,000, plus $200 a week in interest? ''Robert Campbell has a mouthful to say about a chump like that, and . . . he says it with grand panache, in the colorful patois of Hollywood 'gamooshes' and 'juicemen.' ''
THE KING OF THE NIGHTCAP. By William Murray. (Bantam, $16.95.) Shifty Lou Anderson is a dedicated horseplayer who plays detective to keep his favorite recreation clean and almost honest. ''The author's own obvious passion for the sport throws a sunny glow on the tracks where Shifty mingles companionably with jockeys and trainers.''
THE MARSHAL AND THE MADWOMAN. By Magdalen Nabb. (Scribners, $16.95.) Marshal Salvatore Guarnaccia investigates the apparent suicide of a crazed woman who lived in a poor section of Florence. ''The English author's new crime novel examines the human components of a murder case on a level of perception that surpasses mere mastery of form.''
MAY'S NEWFANGLED MIRTH. By Mary Jo Adamson. (Bantam, Paper, $3.50.) Mary Jo Adamson ''works the classical whodunit format with great ingenuity. She writes like a dream . . . threading into her tale of revenge and retribution ravishing descriptions'' of the Puerto Rican locale.
POODLE SPRINGS. By Raymond Chandler and Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $18.95.) The creator of the ''Spenser'' novels ''collaborates'' with the classic detective writer by completing Chandler's last book. ''At his very best, Mr. Parker sounds more like Chandler than Chandler himself - but with an edge the master had begun to lose in the waning days of his life.''
THE SIRENS SANG OF MURDER. By Sarah Caudwell. (Delacorte, $16.95.) Sarah Caudwell's trouble-prone young barristers return for ''another great lark'' in her latest novel. ''Although coincidence and happenstance loom large in the plot mechanics, the abundant wit and sheer insouciance of Ms. Caudwell's style make this no nevermind.''
THE STORY OF ANNIE D. By Susan Taylor Chehak. (Houghton Mifflin, $17.95.) This is an ''absolutely stunning first novel'' about a small Nebraska farming town where the protagonist's best friend commits suicide and three young women are raped and murdered.
TALKING GOD. By Tony Hillerman. (Harper & Row, $17.95.) Lieut. Joe Leaphorn and Officer Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police return in a ''brilliant'' and complex suspense story that is part of ''Mr. Hillerman's long-running show-and-tell course in Navajo language and culture.''
TICKET TO RIDE. By Dennis Potter. (Vintage, Paper, $6.95.) The author of ''The Singing Detective'' probes the shattered mind of a murderer ''with tremendous technical assurance'' and an ''expertly tight weave of . . . many rich symbolic and thematic strands.''
 
Current Affairs and Social Commentary
 AMONG SCHOOLCHILDREN. By Tracy Kidder. (Richard Todd/Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) The author of ''The Soul of a New Machine'' examines ''a year in the life of a fifth-grade class in Holyoke, an industrial city in southwestern Massachusetts''; the book ''is full of the author's genuine love, delight and celebration of the human condition. He has never used his talent so well.''
BARBARIAN SENTIMENTS: How the American Century Ends. By William Pfaff. (Hill & Wang, $19.95.) ''A truly original critic of American diplomacy'' analyzes ''America's historic failure . . . to factor the power and persistence of nationalism around the world into its foreign policy.''
BIG SUGAR: Seasons in the Cane Fields of Florida. By Alec Wilkinson. (Knopf, $18.95.) A writer for The New Yorker manages ''to penetrate the mystery and the misery'' of the West Indian workers who cut America's sugar cane crop. ''Mr. Wilkinson has assembled a vivid collage of the cutter's world.''
CITY: Rediscovering the Center. By William H. Whyte. (Doubleday, $24.95.) The author of ''The Organization Man'' turns his attention to public spaces and urban life. ''His commentary . . . offer[s] a fresh, often controversial perspective. . . . There is genuine brilliance here, born of years of observation.'' THE COCAINE KIDS: The Inside Story of a Teenage Drug Ring. By Terry Williams. (Addison-Wesley, $16.95.) A New York sociologist's report on the five years he spent with a group of teen-age drug dealers. ''What makes [this book] particularly valuable is that Mr. Williams combines his talents as a keen observer with thoughtful, sophisticated analysis.''
THE COMMON INTEREST: How Our Social-Welfare Policies Don't Work, and What We Can Do About Them. By Leslie W. Dunbar. (Pantheon, $22.95.) A longtime liberal social activist challenges current views of poverty with case studies of poor people. ''In this moving book, Mr. Dunbar lets the poor speak for themselves.''
THE ENIGMA OF JAPANESE POWER: People and Politics in a Stateless Nation. By Karel van Wolferen. (Knopf, $24.95.) A Dutch journalist ''has written a distinguished and disturbing book about how the world's new economic superpower is run.''
EUROPEANS. By Jane Kramer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.95.) ''If this truly pleasurable collection of her New Yorker essays is called 'Europeans' - not 'The Europeans' - it is because Ms. Kramer's methodology is to start at the grass roots and work upward. . . . The best reporting works the way she does it.''
FARM: A Year in the Life of an American Farmer. By Richard Rhodes. (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) The author of ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb'' turns his attention to a Missouri farm family and their cyclical struggles. ''Mr. Rhodes brings empathy and intelligence to his subject. . . . His chronicle is unvarnished, his vision acute.''
FORGIVEN: The Rise and Fall of Jim Bakker and the PTL Ministry. By Charles E. Shepard. (Atlantic Monthly, $22.95.) ''A fascinating behind-the-scenes look at the greed, deceit and manipulation that littered the path to [Jim] Bakker's downfall'' written by the Charlotte Observer reporter who won a Pulitzer Prize for his series of articles on the evangelist.
GENE DREAMS: Wall Street, Academia, and the Rise of Biotechnology. By Robert Teitelman. (Basic Books, $19.95.) ''With lucid grace and an insider's grasp'' the author explains how investors bought the latest scientific ''revolution'' long before profitable products existed. IF WOMEN COUNTED: A New Feminist Economics. By Marilyn Waring. (Harper & Row, $19.95.) ''The major contribution of this angry yet humorous, well-written and accessible book is to demonstrate that . . . the current system of national income accounts is not sufficiently accurate to serve as the basis for public policy decisions.'' INNUMERACY: Mathematical Illiteracy and Its Consequences. By John Allen Paulos. (Hill & Wang, $16.95.) An ''entertaining book'' that attempts to ''inspire a mathematical way of looking at the world that does not depend on much actual mathematics.''
IN THE SHADOW OF THE SACRED GROVE. By Carol Spindel. (Vintage, Paper, $8.95.) A young American artist spends a year living and creating in a West African village. ''Her temperament shines through in her writing - clear, bright, full of splashes of color, skillfully composed . . . a remarkable work.''
JERUSALEM: City of Mirrors. By Amos Elon. (Little, Brown, $19.95.) This book ''is a word portrait like none of those that have come before of the fabled city. It is from the loving but unsparing pen of Israel's most elegant iconoclast.''
LEBANON: Death of a Nation. By Sandra Mackey. (Congdon & Weed, $22.95.) A freelance journalist's ''gloomy'' assessment of the country's disintegration ''consists in making the story of Lebanon's morass readable for the uninitiated.''
LIPSTICK TRACES: A Secret History of the Twentieth Century. By Greil Marcus. (Harvard University, $29.95.) ''A coruscatingly original piece of work'' about the ''carnivalesque subculture'' of the left in this century; ''an absorbing new study.''
LORDS OF POVERTY: The Power, Prestige, and Corruption of the International Aid Business. By Graham Hancock. (Atlantic Monthly, $17.95.) This blistering attack on foreign aid and the bureaucracies that administer it is ''a deadly serious book . . . [that] succeeds in standing the myth of foreign aid on its head, and demands a serious reply from the development industry.''
MAASAI DAYS. By Cheryl Bentsen. (Summit, $19.95.) A young American woman examines the lives of the Masai people of East Africa over a six-year period. The author ''deals with a very serious issue: how a people confronts massive social and economic change.'' MAD DREAMS, SAVING GRACES. Poland: A Nation in Conspiracy. By Michael T. Kaufman. (Random House, $19.95.) An ''indispensable'' account of the struggles between the Polish Government and the Solidarity movement, leavened with the story of the author's own family past.
MATERNAL THINKING: Toward a Politics of Peace. By Sara Ruddick. (Beacon, $24.95.) A philosopher posits a way of thinking based on the practical work involved in mothering children; a ''provocative argument.''
MORE LIKE US: Making America Great Again. By James Fallows. (Houghton Mifflin, $18.95.) A ''balanced and judicious'' comparison of Japanese and American societies leads the author to conclude that the United States' great hope lies ''in its best and most characteristic virtues: its democratic manners . . . and readiness to offer everyone a second chance.''
MOSCOW SPRING. By William Taubman and Jane Taubman. (Summit, $18.95.) A couple who teach at Amherst College recount ''the heady atmosphere of Moscow . . . in early 1988, with all its contradictory nuances and uncertainties.''
THE NEW MONEY MASTERS: Winning Investment Strategies of Soros, Lynch, Steinhardt, Rogers, Neff, Wanger, Michaelis, Carret. By John Train. (Harper & Row, $22.50.) Written in ''a clean, easy style,'' the author has assembled eight profiles of investment geniuses who ''filter everyday experience differently.'' PRIVATE ACTS, SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES: AIDS and the Politics of Public Health. By Ronald Bayer. (Free Press, $22.95.) An associate professor at Columbia University ''has done . . . a welcome service'' in probing ''the manner in which officials have weighed the perceived dangers of AIDS against the individual's constitutional rights.''
SECOND CHANCES: Men, Women, and Children a Decade After Divorce. By Judith S. Wallerstein and Sandra Blakeslee. (Ticknor & Fields, $19.95.) A psychologist summarizes her 10-year study of the children of divorce with the help of a science writer who contributes to The New York Times. ''As a work of clinical observation, the book is a beautiful piece of writing, full of insights.''
THE SECOND SHIFT: Working Parents and the Revolution at Home. By Arlie Hochschild with Anne Machung. (Viking, $18.95.) This ''insightful report on two-career family life'' is the best discussion of ''what must be the quintessential domestic bind of our time.''
SOMOZA FALLING. By Anthony Lake. (Richard Todd/Houghton Mifflin, $18.95.) A ''worthwhile study'' by a former Foreign Service officer about the ouster of the Nicaraguan dictator and the resulting effect on American foreign policy.
THE SUN ALSO SETS: The Limits to Japan's Economic Power. By Bill Emmott. (Times Books, $19.95.) With ''unemotional, finely reasoned arguments,'' the author contends ''that Japan's huge financial surpluses could shrink as rapidly as they appeared and that its power and wealth could prove as ephemeral as that of OPEC.''
THE TEMPTING OF AMERICA: The Political Seduction of the Law. By Robert H. Bork. (Free Press, $22.50.) ''A learned and powerfully argued neoconservative book'' written by the Supreme Court nominee rejected by the Senate in 1987. The book ''is a lucid, elegant, provocative work of legal scholarship.''
TEN MEN DEAD: The Story of the 1981 Irish Hunger Strike. By David Beresford. Introduction by Peter Maas. (Morgan Entrekin/Atlantic Monthly, $18.95.) An ''excellent'' history of the 1981 hunger strike in Ireland that details the ''broad cast of characters with insight and care.''
TERRITORY OF LIES. The Exclusive Story of Jonathan Jay Pollard: The American Who Spied on His Country for Israel and How He Was Betrayed. By Wolf Blitzer. (Harper & Row, $22.50.) The Washington bureau chief for The Jerusalem Post ''has written . . . a lucid, highly readable account of one spy case that shook the foundations of the relationship between the United States and Israel.''
WAR AND PEACE IN CENTRAL AMERICA. By Frank McNeil. (Scribners, $19.95.) A 30-year veteran of the Foreign Service writes ''an acerbic chronicle'' of United States policy in Central America since the late 1970's. ''Mr. McNeil deserves admiration for serving his readers as candidly as he served his Government.''
WASTED: The Preppie Murder. By Linda Wolfe. (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) This story of the murder of Jennifer Levin, a young New York woman, is ''an excellent, valuable book.''
WOMEN OF DEH KOH: Lives in an Iranian Village. By Erika Friedl. (Smithsonian, Cloth, $24.95; Paper, $10.95.) An anthropologist's ''enthralling'' view of an Iranian community of women, drawn from 20 years of fieldwork.
 
Essays, Criticism and Letters
 AGAINST JOIE DE VIVRE: Personal Essays. By Phillip Lopate. (Poseidon, $18.95.) A new collection of essays, ''prickly and combative . . . shrewd and uttered with a supple street-poet elegance.''
AN APPETITE FOR POETRY. By Frank Kermode. (Harvard University, $22.50.) This collection of 10 essays by a literary critic ''is a fervent reminder of the glory of literature in a greedy decade whose academic critics are rewarded for abandoning their calling.''
THE CALL OF STORIES: Teaching and the Moral Imagination. By Robert Coles. (Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $18.95.) The eminent psychiatrist talks about why and how literature can make a difference, beginning with his own life; a ''persuasive book.''
THE COMPANY WE KEEP: An Ethics of Fiction. By Wayne C. Booth. (University of California, $29.95.) ''In this almost indecently satisfying book'' a professor of English ''examines the strategies of writers and the counterstrategies of readers, and speculates on all the possibilities of relation between these two.'' GREAT PLAINS. By Ian Frazier. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $17.95.) The essayist takes readers on an expansive tour of the Great Plains. ''This is a terrific book. . . . Mr. Frazier is a skilled writer, and he succeeds in interesting us in what interests him.''
THE IMAGE OF THE BLACK IN WESTERN ART, Volume Four: From the American Revolution to World War I. Part One: Slaves and Liberators. Part Two: Black Models and White Myths. By Hugh Honour. (Menil Foundation/Harvard University, $50 each.) A British art historian's ''magisterial'' look at black people in white culture. ''It is a rare occasion in the history of art when we are able to glimpse so vividly how image-making serves as an instrument of oppression.''
ITALIAN DAYS. By Barbara Grizzuti Harrison. (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, $22.95.) A ''lush, compendious memoir of several months of travel in Italy . . . adds a new dimension'' to travel literature - ''a sense of personal direction.''
LETTERS FROM A WAR ZONE: Writings 1976-1989. By Andrea Dworkin. (Dutton, $18.95.) Essays, speeches and occasional pieces from the radical feminist writer and novelist. ''Andrea Dworkin is still out there fighting, and hers is a very specific battle: against the way American culture treats women.''
THE LETTERS OF JACK LONDON. Volume One: 1896-1905. Volume Two: 1906-1912. Volume Three: 1913-1916. Edited by Earle Labor, Robert C. Leitz 3d and I. Milo Shepard. (Stanford University, $139.50.) A collection of more than 1,500 letters by ''the most widely read American writer in the world.''
THE LETTERS OF JOHN CHEEVER. Edited by Benjamin Cheever. (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) Selected correspondence of the prizewinning fiction writer, ''colorful and witty . . . crude and routine.''
METAPHOR & MEMORY: Essays. By Cynthia Ozick. (Knopf, $19.95.) A collection of reviews and commentaries on writing and writers: ''When insight, feeling and the writer's art come together . . . the distinction between essay and story seems unimportant.''
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL HOUSE IN THE WORLD. By Witold Rybczynski. (Viking, $18.95.) A professor of architecture relates the experience of building his own home. ''A gem of a book . . . with a wealth of meaning.''
NO MAN'S LAND: The Place of the Woman Writer in the Twentieth Century. Volume Two: Sexchanges. By Sandra M. Gilbert and Susan Gubar. (Yale University, $29.95.) In this second volume of a projected three-volume work, ''Ms. Gilbert and Ms. Gubar write with facility'' about American and British literary modernism and the sexual anxieties it expresses.
NOW, WHERE WERE WE? By Roy Blount Jr. (Villard, $17.95.) A ''deft new collection of essays'' from the humorist is ''brilliantly loopy, reassuringly subversive.''
READING RUSSELL: Essays 1941-1988. On Ideas, Literature, Art, Theater, Music, Places, and Persons. By John Russell. (Abrams, $29.95.) Depth, experience, seriousness and gentility are joined in this ''handsome'' book of pieces by the chief art critic of The New York Times.
TRAVELS WITH ALICE. By Calvin Trillin. (Ticknor & Fields, $18.95.) ''One of the classiest and funniest essay writers to appear regularly between hard covers'' continues his culinary adventures around the globe.
VLADIMIR NABOKOV: Selected Letters, 1940-1977. Edited by Dmitri Nabokov and Matthew J. Bruccoli. (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $29.95.) A ''solid volume of selected correspondence . . . scrupulously prepared'' by the author's son and a professor of English at the University of South Carolina.
WHAT AM I DOING HERE. By Bruce Chatwin. (Viking, $19.95.) This last work by the author, who died in 1989, is a mixed bag of travel writing, fiction and reminiscences; ''what comes through in his last book is a life miscellaneous and on the move, traveled on foot, but never pedestrian.''
THE WRITING LIFE. By Annie Dillard. (Harper & Row, $15.95.) The author of ''Pilgrim at Tinker's Creek'' turns her attention to the work of being a writer. ''Annie Dillard is a wonderful writer and 'The Writing Life' is full of joys.''
WRITING A WOMAN'S LIFE. By Carolyn G. Heilbrun. (Norton, $14.95.) An ''astute and provocative book . . . of wise and witty essays'' about ''the lives of independent and ambitious women.''

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (55%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (96%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); LITERATURE (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); 

PERSON: ANDY WARHOL (68%); JAMES CLAUD 'JIM' WRIGHT JR (57%); RALPH DAVID ABERNATHY (56%); 



72 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2045 words

HEADLINE: ART

BYLINE: By JOHN RUSSELL; John Russell is the chief art critic of The New York Times.

 BODY:
The price of books on art has been rising steadily, though by no means as fast as the price of some kinds of art at auction. What $20 would have bought not so long ago may cost close to $100 today. Sometimes it's worth it (always provided that we have the money). Year after year, the catalogues of major exhibitions are the definitive studies of the works in question. Current examples are ''Picasso and Braque: Pioneering Cubism'' by William Rubin (Museum of Modern Art/Bulfinch Press/Little, Brown, $70), the Metropolitan Museum's ''Canaletto'' by Katharine Baetjer and J. G. Links (Abrams, $60) and the National Gallery's ''Frans Hals,'' edited by Seymour Slive (Prestel Art Books/Te Neues Publishing, 15 East 76th Street, New York, N.Y. 10021; $60). 
 
*
 THE ART OF FLORENCE. By Glenn Andres, John M. Hunisak and A. Richard Turner. Principal photography by Takashi Okamura. 1,312 pp. in two boxed volumes. (Abbeville, $385.) Meanwhile, however, a barrier of some kind has been broken by the Abbeville Press in New York, which has produced a two-volume, 1,312-page book that retails at $385. The set is known to be both the brainchild and the favorite son of Robert Abrams, Abbeville's president. It was originally nurtured by H. W. Janson before his death in 1982. His one-volume history of art has long been standard reading for the student of the subject. Its general tone could, in fact, be called Jansonian - steady going, well paced, avuncular.
Architecture is given equal time with painting and sculpture. The city of Florence is treated as a composite work of art whose development is detailed from one generation to the next. Banking, trade, real estate, politics, religion and relations with other cities play their part. Anyone who works through the book, line by line, will know a great deal about Florence in its every aspect.
One reason for the layman to splurge on the book is that it is wonderful to look at. Takashi Okamura is in his way a great photographer. Thanks to him, the owner of this book will see more, and see better, than he will ever see in Florence. Standing shoulder to shoulder in the crowd, searching for the coin that will turn on the low-wattage lighting for two minutes, chasing down the sacristan who may or may not have the key, thwarted by strikes and inconvenient opening hours, we rarely see either the city or its works of art as Mr. Okamura presents them. In his streets, the human presence is nowhere to be seen. (Still less, the Florentine traffic.) In his churches, optimum conditions prevail. He has the best camera. The lighting is perfect. He sees the art at the right angle and from the right distance. Everything is done for him, and he delivers.
At the same time, it could be said that his arresting images are almost too luxurious, too satiny, too apparently pristine. Old master painting is rarely pristine and very often it is not easy. It has weathered the ages, but the ages are likely to have left their mark. And that mark may be vital to our understanding. Without it, something fundamental may be lost. The old masters did not have Japanese good taste and might not have wanted it.
And we have to ask who needs this book, and whether it is worth $385. Florentine art from 1299 to roughly 1575 has been covered in book form at every level from the tourist primer to the learned archival study that comes panniered with footnotes. Necessarily, the book covers ground that has been trodden many times before. It should also be said that it is as heavy as a chained Bible. To pick it up without wincing, you need to have won the Olympic shot put - not too long ago.
Even so, as a book to look at, this one is very seductive. If you want to give someone a bang-up, no-holds-barred, once-for-all-time present, this may be just the right thing.
 
*
 CHAGALL: The Russian Years 1907-1922. By Aleksandr Kamensky. Translated by Catherine Phillips. 376 pp. (Rizzoli, $100.) Until very recently the early years of Marc Chagall in his native Russia were not easy to decipher. Doors were closed. So were archives. In particular, what exactly had become of his big murals of 1920-22 for the Jewish Theater in Moscow was an impenetrable secret. All this was owed to many factors - not least, to the fact that Chagall was Jewish. (In his native Vitebsk, he is to this day virtually a taboo figure.) Yet Chagall had played an important role in Soviet artistic life after the Russian Revolution. Moreover, some of his best early work was believed to be still in private hands.
For all those reasons, Aleksandr Kamensky's book about his Russian years is indispensable. Though many of its illustrations are drawn from the West - above all, from the collections, lately much enriched, of the Musee National d'Art Moderne in Paris - it also digs deep into collections both public and private in the Soviet Union.
Vintage photographs of Chagall and his colleagues in the Jewish Theater give a vivid impression of those heady days, and the book also reprints some important articles and interviews that appeared in the Russian press from 1914. Mr. Kamensky's levelheaded text also contains much valuable material.
 
*
 UNIVERSAL LIMITED ART EDITIONS. A History and Catalogue: The First Twenty-Five Years. By Esther Sparks. 552 pp. (Art Institute of Chicago/Abrams, $95.) More than anyone else, Tatyana Grosman and her Universal Limited Art Editions transformed the potential of the print in the United States. A native of Siberia who immigrated here in 1943, she began U.L.A.E. with nothing at all in a tiny house in West Islip, L.I., in 1955. Her first press cost her $15, secondhand. She knew nothing about prints and nothing about business. Her capital was her feeling for art, her lifelong knowledge of artists and a granitic refusal to take either ''no'' or ''perhaps'' for an answer. If artists didn't want to work with her, she kept after them until finally they sank into the rented limousine that was to take them to West Islip. Once there, they loved it. How would they not, when each in turn had the exclusive attention of the entire workshop for as long as was needed, together with the inventive hospitality of its founder?
Neither time nor money nor trouble had any meaning. Schedules could stay open for years. Weeks of work could be ditched with never a cross word spoken. Food, drink, music (live or recorded) - all were custom built. Larry Rivers said: ''When she began to play Russian gypsy music for me while I worked, I'm afraid I was hers forever.''
She won over even those who thought, with Robert Rauschenberg, that the second half of the 20th century was ''no time to start drawing on rocks.'' And if museum people didn't want to see the finished product, she went on foot to call on them, carrying the prints in a portfolio bigger than herself.
From small beginnings (prices from $60 to $200) she went on to rack up in all 129 prints by Jasper Johns, 113 by Robert Rauschenberg and 21 by Barnett Newman, together with major undertakings by Helen Frankenthaler, Robert Motherwell, Larry Rivers, James Rosenquist, Jim Dine and others. The very word ''print'' had a new meaning by the time she was through, and so did the word ''quality.''
The present book derives from the purchase by the Art Institute of Chicago of Grosman's complete personal archive of the production of U.L.A.E. (to which she added as a gift, before she died in 1982, 4,200 drawings, proofs and other memorabilia). Written and compiled by Esther Sparks of the Art Institute, and with a memoir of Grosman by Amei Wallach, it has the right plain majesty.
 
*
 HEROIC DEEDS AND MYSTIC FIGURES: A New Reading of Rubens' Life of Maria de' Medici. By Ronald Forsyth Millen and Robert Erich Wolf. 321 pp. (Princeton University, $60.) RUBENS: The Artist as Collector. By Jeffrey M. Muller. 314 pp. (Princeton University, $55.) Next to his hometown of Antwerp, Princeton is now the second home of Peter Paul Rubens, one of the greatest painters who ever lived. These two new books detail, respectively, the precise history - social, political, allegorical - of one of his most glorious (and also most devious) commissions. Marie de' Medici as she appears today in a 24-part serial painting on the walls of the Louvre was a very different person from Marie de' Medici as she was in life. To the adjustments and transformations in question, Ronald Forsyth Millen and Robert Erich Wolf in ''Heroic Deeds and Mystic Figures'' are our surest guides. They are learned, lucid, concise and witty. There are even moments at which the Duc de Saint-Simon himself would not have been a sharper observer. What better recommendation?
That Rubens collected has always been known. But how much? And to what end? These have hitherto been the concern of specialists. It is Jeffrey M. Muller's contention in ''Rubens: The Artist as Collector'' that Rubens did not collect works of art simply for his private enjoyment, or to refill his professional gas tank (not that he ever ran on empty). On the contrary, almost his every purchase contributed in one way or another to the social, economic and political game plan that he pursued throughout his life with an incomparable dexterity. (Private affection entered into it, also. Any exchange of portraits played an important part in Rubens's emotional life.) It is the why, as much as the what, of the collections that is important to Mr. Muller, and he makes it important to us, too. Both these books will delight the Rubens enthusiast.
 
*
 EGON SCHIELE: Sketchbooks. By Christian M. Nebehay. Translated by Renee Nebehay-King. 374 pp. (Rizzoli, $65.) To some, the Austrian painter Egon Schiele (1890-1918) set a new standard of free and forthright expression in erotic matters and should be held in honor for that reason. To others, he is a gamy, one-note visual novelettist who is a master at grabbing our attention but does not sustain it for long.
Irrespective of where we stand on that matter, ''Egon Schiele: Sketchbooks'' is indispensable to any student of Schiele. This is the real thing, the firsthand thing, the thing done for the sake of it (and the sake of Schiele's sanity, too, sometimes). It can be welcomed unreservedly.
Hudson Hills Press has now brought out a second edition of Erwin Mitsch's ''Art of Egon Schiele'' ($50). It is a sturdy, hard-wearing survey by a Viennese scholar who organized a major Schiele show as long ago as 1968, and it touches all the bases.
 
*
 ART OF OUR CENTURY: The Chronicle of Western Art, 1900 to the Present. Edited by Jean-Louis Ferrier, with Yann le Pichon. Translation supervised by Walter D. Glanze. 896 pp. (Prentice Hall, $60; after Dec. 31, $70.) Something of a novelty in English, this book traverses our century from a strictly Parisian point of view. By no means the traditional wordy run-through, it comes in the form of a chronology combined with the techniques of the television news-bite. We get the facts, the dates and brief contemporary commentaries on the salient events of each year. We are not asked to agree with either emphasis or opinion, but we are shown the way the art world looked from the city that for more than half a century was its unquestioned capital. The pace is brisk, the spokesmen well chosen, the layout often arresting. We can all learn something from this book.
 
*
 BIEDERMEIER: 1815-1835. Architecture, Painting, Sculpture, Decorative Arts and Fashion. By Georg Himmelheber. Translated by John William Gabriel. 272 pp. (Prestel Art Books/Te Neues Publishing, 15 East 76th Street, New York, N.Y. 10021; $65.) Long dismissed as timid, bourgeois and lacking in energy and panache, the Biedermeier style is back in fashion almost to the point of parody. This book (an abridged version of the catalogue of a great exhibition held in Munich last winter) is our best introduction to Biedermeier in architecture, painting, sculpture and the decorative arts. (Music gets a look in, too). As a corrective to certain supposedly bothersome aspects of our own day, and as a portrait of an age in which all went well (on the surface) and the arts were well made, well bred and essentially consoling, it could not be bettered. A prettier book will not soon come our way.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 9); detail from ''Atlantic Civilization,'' a 1953 painting by Andre Fougeron (From ''Art of Our Century''); Lovers in Gray,'' a 1916 oil on canvas by Chagall (From ''Chagall''); ''Campaign,'' a 1965 print by James Rosenquist (From ''Universal Limited'') (pg. 77)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BOOK REVIEWS (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); RELIGION (62%); 

PERSON: MARC CHAGALL (79%); JOHN MAJOR (56%); 



73 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL

BYLINE: By ANATOLE BROYARD; Anatole Broyard, a former editor of The Book Review, teaches creative writing in Cambridge, Mass.

 BODY:
Like experimental novels in which the technique or approach take the place of plot or character, there are now travel books in which the vehicle is the thing and the place or people are secondary. Like modern paintings, these books suggest that we've already seen the world, and now it's best looked at from a kayak, a rubber raft or balloon, in what Willem de Kooning called ''slipping glimpses.'' Perhaps the quintessentially modern travel book would be that of the big-game hunter, who sees the sights only through his sights, who goes to a place to shoot and kill whatever ''wildlife'' it offers.
At the other extreme is a book like Tim Robinson's STONES OF ARAN: Pilgrimage (298 pp., Viking, $18.95), which is not so much an experience of a place as a kind of obsessive examination of it, as if the writer had lost something there - in the sand, the stones or high grass - and was trying to find it. This is a kind of travel writing The New Yorker sometimes sponsors: a virtuosity of gratuitous fact-gathering, a penitential recording of minutiae, a recitation of information as if it were prayer. Mr. Robinson seems bemused by matter itself. He travels not so much in a place as in ontology. 
An island off the west coast of Ireland, Aran was made famous by Robert Flaherty's film ''Man of Aran'' in 1934. But while Aran is certainly photogenic, especially in black and white, it's hard to see why Mr. Robinson, who is a map maker and conservationist, should be so fascinated by its kelp burning, its kiln firing and its legends. Most legends are about as interesting as somebody else's dreams. Reading Mr. Robinson, one longs for some human beings, some impious trespassers, to interfere with this solemn landscape. From time to time, the author's personality peeps out of his prose, as if he had taken his lunch out of his pocket, but after a few nibbles it's gone.
Eric Lawlor, the author of IN BOLIVIA (226 pp., Vintage, Paper, $8.95), is a British journalist who lives in the United States; he tells us that he went to Bolivia because it was the first word he ever spoke. At the age of 3, he ''was being fed an egg one morning when I swept my plate to the floor and bellowed 'Bolivia'!'' This is promising, and so is the fact that Bolivia was an ''obsession'' with his father. To travel through one's father's obsessions might give travel writing a new dimension - but Mr. Lawlor doesn't pursue this filial or Oedipal theme.
Even so, he is a bit too ready to see himself as picturesque, poised against incongruity. To travel in cleverness is just another kind of kayak. Some of his observations are amusing, like people running down the steep inclines of La Paz because, once started, they can't stop. But once again Mr. Lawlor misses a chance to do a metaphorical riff here.
There are too many Bolivians in this book who sound as if they've been lying in wait for Mr. Lawlor, editing their deadpan conversations. Just as Bruce Chatwin always managed to find someone, even in the Australian outback, to talk to about Wittgenstein, Mr. Lawlor can always come up with a Bolivian hawking small ironies in the street.
Jeremy Bernstein writes in two voices in his most recent book, IN THE HIMALAYAS: Journeys Through Nepal, Tibet and Bhutan (illustrated, 336 pp., Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, Paper, $10.95). One voice sounds like a report from someone sent by a multinational corporation or some obscure arm of the State Department to assess the political and economic potential of Nepal, Tibet and Bhutan. Air service, malaria control, agricultural efficiency - there's not much here for the reader of average sensibility, though parts of this book did appear in The New Yorker.
But when Mr. Bernstein goes trekking in the mountains, the book ascends with him. It comes almost as a surprise to find him having fun. Like Tim Robinson, Mr. Bernstein seems at first to feel guilty about merely responding to, just enjoying, another culture.
Edited and translated by R. David Arkush, a professor of history, and Leo O. Lee, a professor of Chinese literature, LAND WITHOUT GHOSTS: Chinese Impressions of America From the Mid-Nineteenth Century to the Present (illustrated, 309 pp., University of California, $25) is a curious affair. At first all is surprise, as the earlier Chinese visitors flinch from the ''savage roar'' of American speech and wonder at the awful daring of the sexes who sit ''with their shoes touching.'' A later writer is bemused by the American inattention to the ''esthetics'' of ''human character.'' And then, as the Chinese begin to reflect the influence of their various cultural revolutions, we read of ''Spanish dancing'' to jazz in sadly inauthentic Chinese restaurants.
Zhang Jie, a popular Chinese novelist who visited New York in 1982 and became a friend of Annie Dillard, looks around her hotel room near Lincoln Center and asks rhetorically ''had anyone ever been killed in this room?'' In Times Square, she finds the decadence she came to see, remarking that ''there was absolutely no feeling of innocence, purity, beauty, goodness, or anything of that sort to speak of.''
First available here as ''The Sudden View'' in 1953, A VISIT TO DON OTAVIO: A Mexican Journey (319 pp., Eland/Hippocrene Books, Paper, $10.95) has been sporadically in and out of print and very hard to find. We should be grateful to Eland Books for bringing it out again. Mrs. Bedford is a well-known British novelist who also published a two-volume biography of Aldous Huxley, and ''Don Otavio'' is regarded by aficionados as a classic of British travel writing.
She went to Mexico with an unidentified American woman just as literary, conventionally snobbish and idiosyncratic as herself. ''Don Otavio'' is exactly what a travel book should be: an unpacking of all one's moral, intellectual and esthetic luggage in a foreign place. Mrs. Bedford has an opinion - one worth having - about everything. Naturally, she has many prejudices, for prejudice is the vehicle of the British literary traveler, and long may it wave.
She is generally either provoked, bored or amused, and these moods are like three wines served with each meal. She is provoked when ''Something Else'' creeps in: some unclassifiable quirk that is not consistent with her conception of the country. She is bored when her trip bogs down in the mechanics of travel, when ''the proposed enchantment is seen as our planned and burdened crawl about the earth,'' or because a place is ''forlorn to make one cry.'' She is amused when Mexico produces a grand eccentric with the face of one of ''Goya's minor courtiers'' and a beautiful house on a lake, where he presses Mrs. Bedford and her friend to stay forever.
She is dissatisfied with D. H. Lawrence's Mexican novel, ''The Plumed Serpent.'' ''Something,'' she says, ''was being constantly expostulated and one never knew quite what.'' Her own expostulations are never ineffable. She observes, for example, of Mexican folk music that ''it strives to be at once virile and melancholy, and succeeds in sounding military and yearning.'' At a museum, she and her companion are shown ''the embalming syringe'' used on the corpse of the Emperor Maximilian. Like the poet Elizabeth Bishop, who said of Brazil that there were ''too many waterfalls here,'' Mrs. Bedford's companion finds a volcano de trop.
About the attitudes of the Conquistadors and their descendants toward Mexico, Mrs. Bedford observes that ''the distinction between the spirit of adventure and the spirit of inquiry had not yet been drawn.'' And when a man on a bus offers them tortillas he has been carrying inside his shirt, she reflects that ''hygieneJU has cut off man from man more than any class distinctions.'' About two-thirds of the way through her trip, she says, ''I was in that as it were tertiary state of fatigue where the nerves and senses lie bared to direct contact with the world and there is no longer distance or matter between the vision and the absorption, where the mind races, recording, lucid but empty, and beauty can become ours through osmosis.'' That's traveling.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: BOLIVIA (90%); UNITED STATES (74%); IRELAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); SPORT HUNTING (75%); PAINTING (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); 

PERSON: BROYARD, ANATOLE WILLEM DE KOONING (57%); 



74 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 78, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 3185 words

HEADLINE: Notable Paperbacks

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON

 BODY:
This list of paperbacks is a selection from the New & Noteworthy column since the December 1988 Christmas issue. It includes novels, poetry, stories, biography, memoirs, letters, history, essays and science.
 
ADAM, EVE, AND THE SERPENT, by Elaine Pagels. (Vintage, $8.95.) The author of ''The Gnostic Gospels'' shows how politics might have helped transform the cryptic Garden of Eden myth from a celebration of freedom to a condemnation of original sin.
 
AMERICA INVULNERABLE: The Quest for Absolute Security From 1812 to Star Wars, by James Chace and Caleb Carr. (Summit, $12.95.) The Strategic Defense Initiative, the authors argue, is the outgrowth of an obsessive belief in unilateral defense that is rooted in the War of 1812, when the British burned the White House. 
 
AN ARTIST OF THE FLOATING WORLD, by Kazuo Ishiguro. (Vintage, $8.95.) A novel about a Japanese artist who used his talents to glorify the imperialist movement.
 
ANTHILLS OF THE SAVANNAH, by Chinua Achebe. (Anchor/Doubleday, $7.95.) A Nigerian novelist's tale of three friends who try to run a country.
 
THE ARK SAKURA, by Kobo Abe. Translated by Juliet Winters Carpenter. (Vintage International, $8.95.) Inside a hollowed-out mountain, a Japanese beggar assembles a group of outcasts intent on surviving nuclear war.
 
BAD BEHAVIOR, by Mary Gaitskill. (Vintage, $7.95.) For the unhappy characters who populate these matter-of-fact stories, there is nothing very remarkable about sadomasochism.
 
BEING WITH CHILDREN, by Phillip Lopate. (Poseidon, $9.95.) A novelist and essayist tells about his experiences trying to teach writing to children on New York's Upper West Side.
 
BLIND FAITH, by Joe McGinniss. (Signet/New American Library, $5.95.) The true story of Rob Marshall, a wealthy New Jersey suburbanite, who arranges to have his wife shot to death during a faked robbery. Also available from Signet is a new edition of FATAL VISION ($5.95), Mr. McGinniss's account of the murder by Jeffrey McDonald of his pregnant wife and two children in 1970. In a new epilogue the author rebuts a New Yorker article that accused him of tricking Mr. McDonald into confiding in him.
 
THE BOOK AND THE BROTHERHOOD, by Iris Murdoch. (Penguin, $8.95.) A novel about lapsed revolutionaries from Oxford who decide to bankroll a friend who is writing a utopian tract.
 
BREATHING LESSONS, by Anne Tyler. (Berkley, $5.50.) In another novel about eccentrics in Baltimore, Maggie Moran, a cheerful, meddling woman, marries off her son to a 17-year-old she shanghais from an abortion clinic.
 
A BRIGHT SHINING LIE: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam, by Neil Sheehan. (Vintage, $12.95.) This story of an officer whose deceptions came to typify the war in Vietnam won a National Book Award and a Pulitzer Prize.
 
BY SILENCE BETRAYED: Sexual Abuse of Children in America, by John Crewdson. (Perennial/Harper & Row, $8.95.) A journalist shows that when it comes to sexual abuse children have more to fear from their families and friends than from violent interlopers.
 
CAPOTE: A Biography, by Gerald Clarke. (Ballantine, $12.95.) A mesmerizing account of Truman Capote's lifelong masquerade ball.
 
THE CAPTAIN AND THE ENEMY, by Graham Greene. (Penguin, $7.95.) A novel whose narrator, deep in the Central American jungles, seeks the true identity of a mysterious stranger who once spirited him away from a boarding school, claiming to have won him in a backgammon game.
 
CLOAK & GOWN: Scholars in the Secret War, 1939-1961, by Robin W. Winks. (Quill/Morrow, $14.95.) How Yale University has provided the Government with very well educated spies.
 
COMING OF AGE IN THE MILKY WAY, by Timothy Ferris. (Anchor/Doubleday, $10.95.) A chronicle of how the human spirit outgrew the earth and set its sights to the sky.
 
DANGEROUS DOSSIERS: Exposing the Secret War Against America's Greatest Authors, by Herbert Mitgang. (Ballantine, $4.95.) The Federal Bureau of Investigation's secret files on Sinclair Lewis, William Faulkner and other literary suspects.
 
THE CONTROL REVOLUTION: Technological and Economic Origins of the Information Society, by James R. Beniger. (Harvard University, $12.95.) How the Industrial Revolution begat the Information Revolution, by producing a society so complex that it requires computers to keep it from inevitably slipping toward entropy.
 
A DEADLY SILENCE. The Ordeal of Cheryl Pierson: A Case of Incest and Murder, by Dena Kleiman. (Signet/ New American Library, $4.95.) A New York Times reporter tells about the sexually abused Long Island teen-ager who paid a classmate $400 to kill her father.
 
DICTIONARY OF THE KHAZARS: A Lexicon Novel in 100,000 Words, by Milorad Pavic. Translated by Christina Pribicevic-Zoric. (Vintage, $9.95.) A novel, in the form of a do-it-yourself narrative, about a fictional tribe called the Khazars, who lived in a land where the seasons were marked by calendars that flowed in both directions and it was possible to read colors as though they were words.
 
DISCOS AND DEMOCRACY: China in the Throes of Reform, by Orville Schell. (Anchor/Doubleday, $9.95.) In a book published a year before China's latest cataclysm, a Western journalist wonders whether the ancient society can withstand the pressures of modernization.
 
THE DREAMS OF REASON: The Computer and the Rise of the Sciences of Complexity, by Heinz R. Pagels. (Bantam, $9.95.) A physicist tells how the computer, like the telescope and the microscope, will change the way we understand the world.
 
DUSK: And Other Stories, by James Salter. (North Point, $7.95.) Laconic stories about exiles and drifters.
 
EMPEROR OF THE AIR, by Ethan Canin. (Perennial/ Harper & Row, $7.95.) In one of these short stories, a high school astronomy teacher's campaign to save an old elm tree threatens to erupt into a neighborhood war.
 
AN EMPIRE OF THEIR OWN: How the Jews Invented Hollywood, by Neal Gabler. (Anchor/Doubleday, $12.95.) Spurned by East Coast high society, entrepreneurs like Adolph Zukor, L. B. Mayer, the Warner brothers and Harry Cohn established their own fantasy land in Southern California.
 
THE FACTS: A Novelist's Autobiography, by Philip Roth. (Penguin, $7.95.) Philip Roth comes clean with the true story of his heavily fictionalized life, including, for good measure, commentary by his character Nathan Zuckerman.
 
FAMILY MEMORIES: An Autobiographical Journey, by Rebecca West. Edited by Faith Evans. (Penguin, $7.95.) Surprisingly absorbing recollections about the writer's relatives.
 
FLANAGAN'S VERSION: A Spectator's Guide to Science on the Eve of the 21st Century, by Dennis Flanagan. (Vintage, $8.95.) After spending 35 years as editor of Scientific American, Dennis Flanagan learned that science is the greatest spectator sport of all.
 
HER OWN TERMS, by Judith Grossman. (Ivy, $3.95.) A refugee from dreary south London finds that the Oxford literary world can be just as oppressive to women.
 
HEROES OF THEIR OWN LIVES. The Politics and History of Family Violence: Boston 1880-1960, by Linda Gordon. (Penguin, $8.95.) A history of a society's attitudes toward child abuse, incest and wife beating.
 
THE HIGH ROAD, by Edna O'Brien. (Plume/New American Library, $8.95.) A novel about an Irish expatriate who shatters the languid calm of a Spanish island when she has an affair with a local peasant girl.
 
IN SEARCH OF J. D. SALINGER, by Ian Hamilton. (Vintage, $8.95.) A very unauthorized biography of the writer who chose to slip through a tear in the Veil of Maya and disappear into the silence of New Hampshire.
 
IN THE AGE OF THE SMART MACHINE: The Future of Work and Power, by Shoshana Zuboff. (Basic Books, $11.95.) Thanks to the computer, work is becoming less a matter of manipulating things than manipulating symbols.
 
JULIA PARADISE, by Rod Jones. (Penguin, $6.95.) The tale of a Shanghai psychoanalyst who cures a missionary's wife of tormenting fantasies by making love to her.
 
THE KING OF THE FIELDS, by Isaac Bashevis Singer. (Plume/New American Library, $8.95.) A fairy tale of sex and violence about a tribe of cave-dwelling hunters and gatherers who fight the farmers, set in prehistoric Poland. Translated by the author from the Yiddish.
 
LIBRA, by Don DeLillo. (Penguin, $4.95.) A novel about a C.I.A. conspiracy to kill President John F. Kennedy and blame Fidel Castro by fingering a Communist dupe named Lee Harvey Oswald.
 
LAST DAYS OF THE SICILIANS: The FBI's War Against the Mafia, by Ralph Blumenthal. (Pocket Books, $4.95.) After Carmine Galante was murdered in a Brooklyn restaurant in 1979, Federal investigators learned of a Mafia within the Mafia, which used a network of pizzerias to launder drug money.
 
THE LETTERS OF JOHN CHEEVER, edited by Benjamin Cheever. (Simon & Schuster, $10.95.) A hefty selection of letters, accompanied by editorial commentary, that presents a loving but far from idealized portrait.
 
LIFE, A USER'S MANUAL, by Georges Perec. Translated by David Bellos. (Godine, $14.95.) Complex word games and characters that include a millionaire who makes jigsaw puzzles that he himself must solve.
 
LIVES OF THE TWINS, by Rosamond Smith. (Avon, $3.95.) Joyce Carol Oates's pseudonymous novel about a woman who has a secret affair with her therapist's estranged identical twin.
 
LONGING FOR THE HARMONIES: Themes and Variations From Modern Physics, by Frank Wilczek and Betsy Devine. (Norton, $9.95.) How physicists find order beneath the cacophony of subatomic particles, quasars, pulsars and black holes.
 
MASCARA, by Ariel Dorfman. (Penguin, $7.95.) An ominous novel about a man without a face who steals the visages of others.
 
THE MATHEMATICAL TOURIST: Snapshots of Modern Mathematics, by Ivars Peterson. (Freeman, $10.95.) Mathematicians seek truth and beauty with fractals, prime numbers, strange attractors, cellular automata and other abstractions.
 
THE MIDDLEMAN AND OTHER STORIES, by Bharati Mukherjee. (Fawcett, $3.95.) From Vietnam, the Caribbean, Afghanistan and Sri Lanka to Queens, Ann Arbor and Cedar Falls, the modern immigrants in these short stories create a multiplicity of new worlds.
 
MISSING BEAUTY, by Teresa Carpenter. (Zebra, $4.95.) In a true story of obsession and murder, a middle-aged medical school professor resorts to homicide to kick an expensive habit: Robin Benedict, a prostitute from Boston's Combat Zone.
 
NATURAL OBSESSIONS: Striving to Unlock the Deepest Secrets of the Cancer Cell, by Natalie Angier. (Warner, $14.95.) A journalist becomes resident anthropologist in a molecular biology lab, chronicling the search for genes that cause cells to become malignant.
 
NEW AND COLLECTED POEMS, by Richard Wilbur. Harvest/Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $10.95.) This collection of poems by the man named the United States' poet laureate in 1987 won a Pulitzer Prize.
 
NORA: A Biography of Nora Joyce, by Brenda Maddox. (Fawcett Columbine, $12.95.) A young Irish chambermaid named Nora Barnacle eloped with an aspiring writer named James Joyce for a mismatch made in heaven.
 
NOTHING BUT THE BEST: The Struggle for Perfection at the Juilliard School, by Judith Kogan. (Limelight Editions, $10.95.) A lawyer and harpist who graduated from Juilliard tells of cutthroat competition at her alma mater.
 
NOWHERE TO GO: The Tragic Odyssey of the Homeless Mentally Ill, by E. Fuller Torrey. (Perennial/ Harper & Row, $8.95.) A psychiatrist blames his colleagues for treating the ''worried well,'' who can afford to pay their bills, at the expense of the homeless.
 
PACO'S STORY, by Larry Heinemann. (Penguin, $7.95.) A novel about a Vietnam veteran whose nightmares follow him back to Texas and a job in a greasy spoon. The novel won a National Book Award.
 
THE PAPER: The Life and Death of The New York Herald Tribune, by Richard Kluger with the assistance of Phyllis Kluger. (Vintage, $16.95.) The history of the newspaper that gave Tom Wolfe his start.
 
PARIS TROUT, by Pete Dexter. (Penguin, $7.95.) After a Georgia shopkeeper named Paris Trout kills a 14-year-old black girl, the people in the town of Cotton Point try to convince themselves that they are somehow different from their racist, paranoid neighbor. The novel won a National Book Award.
 
PARTING THE WATERS: America in the King Years 1954-63, by Taylor Branch. (Simon & Schuster, $14.95.) A Pulitzer Prize-winning history of the Civil Rights movement.
 
THE PIGEON, by Patrick Suskind. (Washington Square/Pocket Books, $5.95.) The well-ordered life of a Parisian bank guard is transformed completely when a pigeon shows up at his door.
 
THE POET AT THE PIANO: Portraits of Writers, Filmmakers, Playwrights, and Other Artists at Work, by Michiko Kakutani. (Peter Bedrick, $8.95.) A collection of profiles, including such subjects as Saul Bellow, Ingmar Bergman, Sam Shepard and Laurence Olivier, by a New York Times book critic.
 
THE POWER GAME: How Washington Works, by Hedrick Smith. (Ballantine, $5.95.) In recent times, Washington has become fractured into hundreds of power centers, each fighting to garner enough influence to get things done.
 
THE PREDATORS' BALL: The Inside Story of Drexel Burnham and the Rise of the Junk Bond Raiders, by Connie Bruck. (Penguin, $8.95.) The rise and fall of Drexel Burnham Lambert and its West Coast Wunderkind, Michael Milken.
 
THE QUEEN OF THE DAMNED: Book Three of the Vampire Chronicles, by Anne Rice. (Ballantine, $5.95.) The mother vampire of them all awakens from a 6,000-year-old sleep with a plan to bring peace on earth by killing most of the men.
 
THE QUESTION OF HU, by Jonathan D. Spence. (Vintage, $8.95.) A history of a curious Chinese tourist who was thrown into a French insane asylum in the early 18th century.
 
QUINN'S BOOK, by William Kennedy. (Penguin, $8.95.) A young newspaperman tries to win the heart of Maud Fallon, the beautiful enigma he saved from drowning when she was 12 years old.
 
THE RABBI OF LUD, by Stanley Elkin. (Scribners, $8.95.) A fictional New Jersey rabbi presides over a congregation of the dead.
 
THE RAT, by Gunter Grass. Translated by Ralph Manheim. (Harvest/Helen and Kurt Wolff/Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $9.95.) In a concatenation of stories within stories, Gunter Grass tells of the dawning of the posthuman age when the world is overrun by rats.
 
THE RISE AND FALL OF THE GREAT POWERS: Economic Change and Military Conflict From 1500 to 2000, by Paul Kennedy. (Vintage, $12.95.) When mighty empires hasten their own demise by spending too much money on the military.
 
THE RISK POOL, by Richard Russo. (Vintage, $8.95.) Ned Hall chooses a college as far as possible from his hometown of Mohawk, where his father is a drunk and his mother is strung out on Librium.
 
SAILING, by Susan Kenney. (Penguin, $7.95.) After a cancer patient's wife gives him a sailboat, he gets a grip on his life.
 
SECRETS OF THE TEMPLE: How the Federal Reserve Runs the Country, by William Greider. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $12.95.) A book that demystifies the Federal Reserve Board.
 
A SOCIAL HISTORY OF MADNESS: The World Through the Eyes of the Insane, by Roy Porter. (Dutton/Obelisk, $8.95.) A collection of case studies in which the history of the asylum is told from the point of view of the inmates.
 
SOMEONE WAS HERE: Profiles in the AIDS Epidemic, by George Whitmore. (Plume/New American Library, $8.95.) Three true stories about victims of the AIDS virus by a man who has since died of the disease.
 
SPENCE + LILA, by Bobbie Ann Mason. (Perennial/ Harper & Row, $6.95.) In a novel by the author of ''In Country,'' a farmer helps his wife in her struggle against breast cancer.
 
THE STATUE WITHIN: An Autobiography, by Francois Jacob. Translated by Franklin Philip. (Basic Books, $10.95.) The autobiography of the renowned molecular biologist is ''not only literate but positively literary,'' our reviewer said.
 
STORIES IN AN ALMOST CLASSICAL MODE, by Harold Brodkey. (Vintage, $12.95.) Tales from a craftsman of abundant prose about the relentlessness of suffering.
 
THE TENANTS OF TIME, by Thomas Flanagan. (Warner, $5.95.) A historical novel about three Irishmen who play different roles in the country's sorrows.
 
THE THIRD GENERATION, By Chester Himes. (Thunder's Mouth, $11.95.) A searing novel, published in 1954, about a black professor whose wife tries to pass for white.
 
THREE SCIENTISTS AND THEIR GODS: Looking for Meaning in an Age of Information, by Robert Wright. (Perennial/Harper & Row, $8.95.) Masterly portraits of three eccentric thinkers in search of the secrets of life.
 
TRACKS, by Louise Erdrich. (Perennial/Harper & Row, $8.95.) The Chippewa ancestors of the characters in ''Love Medicine'' and ''The Beet Queen'' fight winter, smallpox and a conquering alien culture.
 
TWO AGAINST ONE, by Frederick Barthelme. (Collier/Macmillan, $7.95.) During a surprise birthday visit from his estranged wife, Edward is invited to join her and her lover in an enduring threesome.
 
UNDER THE EYE OF THE CLOCK: The Life Story of Christopher Nolan, by Christopher Nolan. (Delta, $7.95.) A paralyzed poet tells how he learned to flex the muscles of his mind.
 
VANISHED, by Mary McGarry Morris. (Washington Square/Pocket Books, $6.95.) A dull-witted middle-aged road worker and a 14-year-old runaway embark on a five-year odyssey of truck stops and cheap motels.
 
WASHINGTON GOES TO WAR, by David Brinkley. (Ballantine, $4.95.) The television journalist recalls how World War II transformed a sleepy city with Southern efficiency and Northern charm into a boom-town bureaucracy.
 
WHATEVER HAPPENED TO GLOOMY GUS OF THE CHICAGO BEARS? by Robert Coover. (Collier/ Macmillan, $7.95.) A novel about an ambitious young Quaker named Richard Nixon who becomes a football star.
 
WHEN THE MIND HEARS: A History of the Deaf, by Harlan Lane. (Vintage, $15.95.) For hundreds of years, deaf people have tried to make the hearing understand that words need not be spoken - or even written - to qualify as language.
 
WHERE I'M CALLING FROM, by Raymond Carver. (Vintage, $8.95.) Stark, haunting tales left behind by Raymond Carver, who died last year of cancer at the age of 50.
 
WHO KILLED CBS? The Undoing of America's Number One News Network, by Peter J. Boyer. (St. Martin's, $5.95.) A horror story about the decline of Edward R. Murrow's old aerie.
 
WHO WROTE THE BIBLE? by Richard Elliott Friedman. (Perennial/Harper & Row, $8.95.) A scholarly hunt for Moses' ghostwriters that reads like a detective story.
 
WRITING A WOMAN'S LIFE, by Carolyn G. Heilbrun. (Ballantine, $6.95.) A humanities professor who writes mysteries tells how literature has conspired to make women seem more like men want them to be.
 
THE YELLOW WIND, by David Grossman. Translated by Haim Watzman. (Delta, $8.95.) A young Israeli novelist spends a season among the West Bank Palestinians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); POETRY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); RELIGION (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); MURDER (67%); SHOOTINGS (62%); ABORTION (60%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (50%); 

PERSON: KAZUO ISHIGURO (56%); KIMIFUSA 'KOBO' ABE (55%); 



75 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES: Rent Regulation;
Extending the Right to a Renewal Lease

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
WHAT is a ''nontraditional'' family? Should people who consider themselves members of such families have a right to succeed to a rent-stabilized apartment when the tenant named on the lease dies or moves out?
The New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal thinks so. As the administrator of the rent-stabilization code, the agency last month promulgated a new emergency rule granting lease renewal rights to those who are using an apartment as their primary residence and who can show an ''emotional and financial commitment and interdependence'' with the tenant named on the lease.
A temporary restraining order obtained by the Rent Stabilization Association, a major organization of rental owners, has prevented the order from going into effect. But the legal, practical and human questions it raises are unlikely to evaporate as long as there is the concern that elderly people or AIDS victims may be evicted and left homeless when their living partners, who are named on the lease, die or move out. 
As in the case of the five-year moratorium on alterations or demolitions of single-room-occupancy buildings by New York City, the state's order represents an effort to protect the occupancy rights of a socially fragile population on the basis of a housing emergency. In July the New York State Court of Appeals overturned the city's S.R.O. law, and last week the United States Supreme Court declined to hear the city's appeal.
Under the emergency stabilization order, owners would effectively lose the ability to select a successor tenant in an undeterminable number of apartments. They would lose the right to a vacancy rent increase in those apartments, and also the opportunity to sell them to an outside buyer, after the departure of the tenant named on the lease, if the building was undergoing a conversion into a cooperative.
The state's action offers another opportunity to consider the potential benefits and problems involved in seeking to achieve a humane policy goal through restrictions on the rights of owners of rental property. Case by case, courts will have to judge whether the claim to succession rights as a member of a ''nontraditional family'' is valid.
Since there is a shortage of apartments and, usually, a gap between actual rents and potential vacancy rents, the rule creates an inducement for tenants to form family-like relationships, or the appearance of them, to support a claim for succession rights.
In producing the regulation, the state has relied on Appellate Division decisions giving it broad authority to issue regulations on succession rights without legislative approval. Then, last July, the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, affirmed the right of a longterm unmarried partner of a deceased tenant to inherit continued occupancy rights in a rent-controlled apartment.
Four years ago, in the case of Brevard v. Sullivan, the Court of Appeals found that in rent-stabilized apartments, succession rights are limited to the tenant named on the lease.
Subsequently, the Legislature widened succession rights in stabilized apartments to include occupants who had lived in the apartment since the beginning of the lease or the beginning of the relationship. But ''relationship'' has always meant family members, construed broadly but specifically - spouses and children, step-parents and stepchildren, nephews, nieces, aunts and uncles, grandparents and grandchildren and in-laws.
WHAT opened the door to the broader interpretation of ''family'' was the Court of Appeals decision in the case of Braschi v. Stahl Associates. Writing for the majority in the 4-to-2 decision, Associate Justice Vito J. Titone said that Miguel Braschi could inherit full tenancy rights from his deceased longterm companion, Leslie Blanchard, in a rent-controlled apartment at 405 East 54th Street.
Protection against sudden eviction, Justice Titone said, ''should not rest on fictitious legal distinctions or genetic history, but instead should find its foundation in the reality of family life.'' A more realistic view of a family, he said, includes ''two adult lifetime partners whose relationship is longterm and characterized by an emotional and financial commitment and interdependence.''
Justice Titone distinguished the Braschi holding from the Brevard case, saying that rent stabilization is a less onerous burden on the property owner than rent control.
But Richard L. Higgins, the state's Housing Commissioner, said he could see no reason to make the distinction. ''If anything,'' he said, ''protections are more essential in stabilized housing because its less restrictive provisions make it easier to evict an apartment occupant.''
The state housing agency therefore proposes by regulation to extend these rights to occupants of stabilized apartments. The right would apply not only when the named tenant dies, but also when the tenant voluntarily vacates.
The emergency order is full of examples, drawn from language in court cases, of factors that give evidence of emotional and financial commitment and interdependence. One is the longevity of the relationship. No specific length of time is suggested, but under a different section of the stabilization law, family members claiming a renewal lease have to be able to show that they have lived in the apartment and used it as their primary residence for at least two years.
Another evidence is the ''sharing of or relying upon each other for payment of household or family expenses.'' A third is the intermingling of finances and a fourth is ''engaging in family-type activities'' such as holidays and celebrations.
It may also help to arrive before a sympathetic magistrate. It is difficult to imagine the tests being applied evenhandedly.
Evidence of emotional commitment that is specifically excluded from consideration is a sexual relationship. But gay-rights advocates considered the Braschi decision a major victory, and hope to build on it to extend rights for homosexuals beyond housing. The AIDS crisis has made their plea more urgent.
''IF a partner dies of AIDS, it's common for landlords to deny the survivor a lease in order to get a higher rent,'' said Thomas B. Stoddard, executive director of the Lambda Legal Defense and Eduction Fund, the national legal organization that works in behalf of homosexuals and AIDS victims. The AIDS situation led New York City to file an amicus brief on behalf of Braschi.
The state housing agency has a broader beneficiary population in mind - one that includes the elderly and disabled who have longterm companions who are not family members in the traditional sense.
How many households would be affected by the regulation? The Office of Rent Administration of the Division of Housing and Community Renewal notes that in the 1987 New York City housing survey, 49,400 rent-stabilized apartments were found to be occupied by two or more people who were unrelated by marriage or blood. That is about one in every 19 of the city's 935,000 stabilized apartments. There are 160,000 rent-controlled households.
These households consist of roommates, doubled-up families, elderly people living together, male homosexual and lesbian groupings, and nongay people who live together. The latter category is ''heterosexual and close to roommates, but different,'' said a Rent Stabilization Association official, Jack Freund.
The number of apartments actually affected each year depends on the turnover rate. Commissioner Higgins estimated that there were probably 2,000 to 4,000 turnovers a year in the affected apartments.
In practice, the burden would be placed on owners who want to gain possession of an apartment to demonstrate that an individual claiming succession does not indeed qualify under the regulation. That might well take expensive and intrusive investigation, with uncertain results.
TO owners, the standard of ''financial and emotional interdependence'' is vague, subjective and certain to lead to abuses. An unrelated individual might move in with a tenant, establish a joint bank account with an unspecified amount of funds, be seen at gatherings with the tenant and then inherit the apartment when the tenant moves away. But the owner would have to undertake a long and difficult procedure to prove that these were indeed the facts.
Considered as a family member, the individual would in some ways find it easier to take over an apartment than he would to sublet an apartment from a prime tenant. A prime tenant typically provides the owner with considerable information about a sublessee for an occupancy that can last only two years.
''On a sublet I can ask for financial back-up,'' said Andrew Hoffman, general manager of London Terrace Gardens at 415-455 West 23d Street and 420-460 West 24th Street. ''Here there would be no chance.'' He also predicted that in co-op conversions the regulation would establish a new market for the sale of insider rights - the right to purchase an apartment at prices available only to tenants.
Sherwin Belkin, lawyer for the Rent Stabilization Association, said the state was giving a ''blueprint'' for how people can acquire tenancy rights, in effect reviving the right to assign leases, which the Legislature eliminated in 1983. He also predicted that a black market would arise, with tenants, for a fee, collaborating with potential successor tenants to establish conditions that suffice to meet the standards of ''emotional and financial commitments.''
But Commissioner Higgins said the owners' fears were exaggerated. A hearing on the code amendment is scheduled for Jan. 22 at Police Plaza in Manhattan at 1 P.M.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (54%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (54%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL, DIVISION OF (NYS); RENT STABILIZATION ASSN OF NEW YORK CITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING RENT CONTROL (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (86%); EVICTION (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (74%); MARRIAGE (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); AIDS & HIV (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (53%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S



76 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7, Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:

M.C.I. Rent Increases
Question: I am confused as to whether tenants in buildings where there have been rent increases for M.C.I. (major capital improvements) have to keep paying the higher rents once the repairs or new features have been paid for. A neighbor said the law has changed but our landlord says he does not have to reduce the rent and the M.C.I. change is permanent. Who is right? . . . B. W., Manhattan
Answer: Your landlord. The rent increases landlords get to cover the cost of building improvements are permanent. What your neighbors might be confused about is that there was a court challenge to this aspect of the rent-stabilization law. The suit was brought by tenants at the Ansonia apartment building in Manhattan challenging the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal's interpretation of the statute that makes the rent increases permanent. 
Last month, the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, reaffirmed the division's rule making M.C.I. increases permanent.
 
Right to Inherit a House
Question: I live, rent-free, in a two-family house owned by my father. I am my father's only child. He continues to tell me that in the event of his death ''eveything will be taken care of.'' He has indicated that the house will be mine but has not shown me the deed. I don't know if my name is on it. Another concern of mine is that my father and I have different surnames and his name is not on my birth certificate. Will I have a right to this property if he dies and my name is not on the deed? . . . Y. A., Brooklyn.
Answer: That would depend on certain other factors. According to Michael R. Winston, a lawyer who specializes in real estate matters, for you to have an automatic right to inherit the property, your name would have to be on the deed or in a will in which your father leaves the property to you.
Mr. Winston said that if you believe your father genuinely wants you to inherit the house, you must let him know that you need more than an oral acknowledgement. While the terms of a will are private and not open to you, you would not need your father's permission to see the deed. Property ownership is a matter of public record. You can look up the deed in the Brooklyn office of the City Register at 210 Joralemon Street.
 
The Illegal Use of a Floor
Question: I was told that when the building where I rent was built the number of floors exceeded the legal limit set by the zoning code. I also understand that because of this error the city limited the landlord's use of the top floor, preventing tenancy.
Recently the owner/manager of the building moved his office into this unoccupied floor, as did a few other commercial businesses. We are trying to determine if this is a violation of some law or of the agreement between the city and the owner. Is there a city office where we can find out if the landlord can do this? . . . R. R., Manhattan
Answer: Yes. Your source would be the city's Department of Buildings. According to Vahe Tiryakian, a spokesman for the agency, the building's certificate of occupancy would indicate all legal uses for various areas in the building. The C. of O. is on record in the Buildings Department's borough office. Mr. Tiryakian suggested that you start your search in the Index Section. All you would need is the address for your building. If, after checking, you find that the use of this space for offices appears to be a violation of the C. of O., you can file a complaint with the Department of Buildings.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (88%); RENT CONTROL (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); LAWYERS (73%); WILLS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); ZONING (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 



77 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 19, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY: The Garment District;
Dressing Up Those Dowager Buildings

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:
IN Manhattan's garment district at midday, pedestrians still jockey for sidewalk space with pushers of wheeled clothing racks, and huge delivery trucks still own the curbs on the side streets. But in the last few years the area has shed its drab industrial look for a more polished appearance.
The transformation, prompted by rising property values as well as broad changes in the garment industry itself, can be seen in newly marbled lobbies, high-speed elevators, central air-conditioning, carpeted corridors, and uniformed doormen in many buildings.
So far the metamorphosis has been most apparent on Seventh Avenue, the district's main corridor, where many of the industry's top designers have showrooms.
But now, two of the largest buildings on Broadway - long considered a less prestigious address than Seventh Avenue - are undergoing dramatic makeovers. 
The owners of 1412 Broadway, the 400,000-square-foot structure at 39th Street, and 1370, the 250,000-square-foot building at 37th Street, are redoing the lobbies and office floors as well as the mechanical systems.
Work is also under way on a 27,000-square-foot showroom building at 552 Seventh Avenue near 40th Street, which was damaged by a fire two years ago.
With the multimillion dollar modernization programs, the owners hope to keep valued tenants, attract new ones and raise rents. ''Owners are under pressure to upgrade now,'' said Laurence I. Landis, director of leasing for at 1412 Broadway, the 25-story building now known as the Fashion Gallery. ''One of the reasons is that tenants expect it now.''
Mr. Landis, who has been managing and leasing properties in the neighborhood for nearly 15 years, said that the distinctions people in the garment industries used to make among various buildings are dissolving.
''It used to be that if you were a name designer you had to be in a certain building on Seventh Avenue,'' he said. ''And if you manufactured junior sportswear or misses dresses you wanted to be in a certain building on Broadway. Tenants were very reluctant to make changes even for better spaces because they thought leaving certain buildings might mean a loss of business. The industry is changing on several different levels and tenants are more flexible today.''
Over the last decade the workforce in the garment district, the area from 42d to 34th Streets and from Avenue of the Americas to Eighth Avenue, has changed from mostly sewers and pressers to more white-collar employees of designers and manufacturing companies. The remaining hands-on garment jobs are mostly in sample-making.
A shift of production to overseas plants by American clothing producers and the consolidation of manufacturing companies were the main catalysts of the changes.
The Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics reports during the first quarter of this year the city had 100,910 workers in the apparel industry. That figure compares to 123,555 workers in 1984 and 150,549 in 1979. Included in the count were all types of workers from designers and their marketing people to production and other blue-collar workers.
Even those apparel industry production jobs still in the city tend to be in factories in Chinatown or the outer boroughs.
Eli Elias, the president of the Federation of Apparel Manufacturers, said that another force behind the changes has been an overall decline in the number of garment manufacturing companies.
''We used to have in the neighborhood hundreds of small companies producing one or two lines,'' he said. ''Now you have huge companies like Liz Claiborne with 15 or 20 different design and manufacturing divisions.''
THE result has been fewer companies, but those that remain are taking larger spaces, not for manufacturing but for functions as diverse as design and pattern-making, marketing and accounting. Design companies and large manufacturers are the kinds of tenants that owners like the Catalano Kornblum Development Corporation, which is nearing completion of its renovation of 1412 Broadway, hope to attract. The company's principals, Michael Kornblum and Peter Catalano, are like other new property owners in the garment district who have taken over buildings with renovation plans in mind.
''From our point of view,'' Mr. Catalano said, ''the buildings on Broadway were not meeting their potential. Most of them had not been improved in decades. The garment district has some of the most important designers in the world. But you could not tell that by looking at the buildings here.''
Mr. Catalano and Mr. Kornblum, who upgraded several buildings on Park Avenue South, another commercial district that has undergone a dramatic transformation, bought the building, constructed in the 1920's, about a year ago. Until then most tenants were textile companies, other manufacturers and shipping concerns.
Among the new showroom tenants are Escada, the German-based clothing design company, which has taken 35,000 square feet on two floors, and Cerruti 1881, a sportwear company that has taken 3,000.
Mr. Landis said that the asking price for renovated space is $35 a square foot, or 30 to 40 percent more than what tenants are currently paying for unrenovated space.
Dan Associates, the real estate investment company that owns 1370, has just started its makeover of the building which used to be known as the Fischel Loft Building. The work will include upgrading the mechanical systems and renovating the upper floors.
Marty Meyer, a senior managing director with Williams Real Estate, the company directing the building's leasing program, said the asking price for renovated space is $26.50 a foot. He added that rents in the area have not increased much in the past year or so.
''Tenants are a little more cautious than they were this time last year,'' he said. ''The economy in general has made manufacturers nervous and the major retailers are having their own problems.''
Moreover, the nature of the apparel manufacturing is such that the space needs of tenants are less predictable than for other industries. ''Companies expand and shrink from season to season as lines are started or discontinued,'' Mr. Meyer said. ''If retailing improves quickly we could have a sudden demand for space next year.''
But despite those physical changes, it is not likely that the garment district will soon be a neat-looking office center indistinguishable from others in Manhattan. The area remains a major distribution center for the apparel industry. Clothing may be made in Taiwan or Hong Kong, but much of it still passes through Manhattan on its way to retailers across the country.
''Even though fewer and fewer manufacturers have their production operations here,'' said Cory Greenspan, executive director of the Federation of Apparel Manufacturers, ''they still need to control distribution and quality from here. Unless a manufacturer delivers exactly what is ordered, he jeopardizes payment for the entire order.''
Another constraint on a complete transformation of the neighborhood was a zoning rule, put into effect by the city two years ago, that was intended to preserve the area's shrinking manufacturing spaces. The rule required that half the space in manufacturing buildings in midblocks from 35th to 40th Streets between Broadway and Ninth Avenue be maintained for garment-related uses.
But the Real Estate Board of New York and property owners in the area challenged the zoning measure, and last year Justice Carmen Ciparick of State Supreme Court overturned it, saying that city planners did not thoroughly assess its environmental impact. Last month the city filed an appeal of Justice Ciparick's ruling.

GRAPHIC: Fire-damaged building at 552 Seventh Avenue is being renovated (The New York Times); office floors and lobbies are being redone at 1370 Broadway (The New York Times/Dith Pran); 1412 Broadway at 39th Street

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (73%); HVAC SYSTEMS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); STATISTICS (60%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G



78 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 17, Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL NOTEBOOK: Providence;
Condo-Rental For Downtown

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
FINISHING touches are being put on the conversion of the 104-year-old Conrad building into this city's first downtown residential development - a 24-unit project that will be half rental, half condominium.
Erected in 1885 in what was the city's theater district by a businessman, J. B. Barnaby, as a present for his daughter, the five-story building more recently housed music studios and one of the city's best known bars, Lupo's Heartbreak Hotel, which closed in 1988.
Its architecture - an eclectic mix of Moorish, Gothic and Renaissance styles, with floor-to-ceiling windows in all rooms - attracted Edmund Restivo Jr., an accountant turned developer. 
With $3.4 million in low-interest financing obtained through the nonprofit Providence Company, a group of businesses and banks with a $20 million revolving loan fund for downtown residential projects, Restivo Construction began the $4.5 million project in January 1988. The city, which has long been trying to attract residential development downtown, granted a $500,000 low-interest loan for the project. In addition to Mr. Restivo, his brother Thomas and his father, Edmund Sr., the partners are Vark Markarian, Anthony Silvestri and Michael Solomon.
The architect, David Presbrey of Providence, designed six basic styles of apartments. Five condominium units are under contract, said Edmund Restivo Jr., noting that prices for the units range from $99,500 to $242,500. Monthly maintenance fees are $200 and $350, depending on the square footage, which ranges from 800 to 1,400 square feet. Because the Conrad is a restored historic building, the developer got a $500,000 Federal tax credit. This saving, Mr. Restivo said, has allowed him to offer rentals at $750 to $1,250 a month. For $1,000, a renter can take an option, good for three years, to purchase at the original asking price. Seven units have been leased.
Despite the 19th-century exterior, complete with cast-iron detail, the interior is contemporary. The spacious feel in rooms with high ceilings and eight-foot windows is accentuated with white walls, counters, kitchen cabinets and tile floors. Buyers may choose the carpeting color. All units use an open-space concept, with no walls separating the kitchen from the living room and dining area.
Three units have two-bedrooms and the rest have one. Each comes with an intercom system, microwave oven and parking space in a nearby lot.

GRAPHIC: Conrad Building in Providence, R.I. (The New York Times/Jack Spratt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (95%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONRAD BUILDING (PROVIDENCE, RI)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); THEATER (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); FLOORING (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: PREVOST, LISA



79 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Civics Lesson;
Times Sq. Documentary

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS

 BODY:
Public school students in New York City will have an opportunity to view ways to change Times Square for the better through a 30-minute film that examines the history of the neighborhood and proposals for its redevelopment. Starting next month and continuing through the school term, the documentary ''Changing Times in Times Square'' is to be presented at 296 high schools and junior high schools in all boroughs. Later in the year it is due to be shown by local and cable television outlets.
The film was written and produced by Paul Budline, a professional documentary maker based in Manhattan, and narrated by Michael Presser, a producer of educational programs in the arts. Included are interviews with proponents and opponents of various redevelopment proposals. The intent, according to Mr. Presser, is to present both sides so that the film ''serves as a civics lesson aimed at showing the operation and complexity of our local government.'' The film cost $30,000 to make and was underwritten by funds donated to Mr. Presser's Midtown Management Group. The group's projects are supported by such donors as the Shubert Organization, Chase Manhattan Bank, Citibank, the American Federation of Teachers and city agencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CHANGING TIMES IN TIMES SQUARE (MOVIE)

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (55%); C (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (55%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (55%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; MOTION PICTURES; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS DOCUMENTARY FILMS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); FILM (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: LYONS, RICHARD D



80 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 10, Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Retirees Are In Demand in Eastern Europe

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

 BODY:
WHEN Emil Davidson retired 20 years ago, after selling the multimillion dollar plastics-molding company he founded in Elmsford, N.Y., he found the quiet life in his Scarsdale neighborhood frustrating. ''Here I knew all this stuff,'' he said, ''but nobody asked me any questions.''
Today, the former chemist and inventor, who holds 20 patents, has an international audience eager to hear his answers. The peripatetic executive, now 81 years old, has volunteered his management expertise for 12 projects in eight countries from Kenya to China, showing his African client how to make a better bottle cap and helping a Chinese factory computerize its operations.
Now he is waiting for a new assignment, in Eastern Europe. 
 
10,000 Volunteer Executives
Mr. Davidson is one of 10,000 volunteer executives with the International Executive Service Corps, a nonprofit organization based in Stamford that sends retired American business executives to developing countries to upgrade management skills and improve basic business technologies.
Although the corps was formed to encourage private enterprise in non-Marxist countries, its role has expanded to other countries including China. And recent developments in Eastern Europe have given the 25-year-old organization a new focus. It is finding an enthusiastic audience in Communist bloc countries where the population is engaged in pioneering efforts to transfer production from state to private hands.
 
Delegation to Poland
Last week, the president of the organization, Thomas S. Carroll of New Canaan, joined a delegation of United States Government officials, business, academic and labor leaders on a Presidential mission to Poland. The group will advise President Bush about the most efficient use of United States aid to that country and to assist the Poles in refining their own economic restructuring.
The five-day mission was led by Secretary of Agriculture Clayton Yeutter, Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher Sr. and Secretary of Labor Elizabeth H. Dole. It also advised Polish officials about how to sell state-owned operations to private enterprise and how to encourage individual initiative.
The trip was Mr. Carroll's second visit to the newly market-oriented country in the last month. It came after an agreement between Poland and the United States under which volunteer executives from the corps will be made available to provide management expertise to Polish industries.
''We are all participants in an event equal in importance to the industrial revolution,'' said Mr. Carroll, a former president and chief executive officer of Lever Brothers. ''As kids in this country, we all had lemonade stands or delivered newspapers, but anyone in Poland younger than 60 has never seen private enterprise before. You can hear the pages of history turning.''
The delegation will begin talks intended to lead to a capital-formation program for Poland, Mr. Carroll said, including the establishment of pension programs and the creation of a framework for a Polish stock exchange.
Additional volunteers from the corps, led by Robert Bishop, a former vice president of the New York Stock Exchange, will visit Poland and Hungary in January at the request of those Governments, to begin setting up stock exchanges and promoting their use as a vehicle for private investment.
''There is an estimated $3 billion in mattresses in Poland,'' Mr. Carroll said. ''The Poles don't want to put their money in banks or in any other institution. We are going over there to help structure this monumental cultural and economic change.''
The executive corps, founded in 1964 by David Rockefeller, is financed by grants from the United States Agency for International Development and by voluntary contributions from corporations and foundations.
The organization's $34 million budget last year helped send 710 volunteers to projects in 48 countries for two- to three-month stays. There they provided management and technological advice to help businesses in such projects as creating fish farms, exporting higher-quality furniture or building better steel mills. Each advisory mission cost an average $23,000.
 
Volunteers Are Being Recruited
Because there are no Agency for International Development missions in Communist countries in Eastern Europe, and because the fledgling private industries being developed there cannot make significant contributions, the executive corps first 10 projects in Poland are being financed by a $75,000 grant from the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, which coordinates some philanthropic activities of the family.
Executive corps volunteers are being recruited for several projects there, said Charles V. Neiswender, vice president for planning for the corps. Among the projects are management assistance for a color picture tube company and a steelworks plant in Warsaw, a copper company in Lubin and a crude-oil processing plant in Gdansk.
''Poland won't modernize overnight,'' Mr. Neiswender said, ''and we're not so naive as to think they will. We are the beginning of a process, and we recognize that sending a volunteer for three months will not solve all their problems.''
In February, Mr. Neiswender will leave for the Soviet Union for meetings with a Soviet adviser, Alexander Biryukov, a close associate of Mikhail S. Gorbachev. The two men will discuss a series of five assignments for the executive corps volunteers in private-sector enterprises in the Soviet Union, a project that will also test the effectiveness of such assistance.
 
Executive Returns From Budapest
With the help of a $200,000 grant from the Soros Foundation - Hungary - which provides grants and scholorships to Hungarian citizens and institutions to promote the opening of that society - the executive corps has already completed l7 projects in Hungary, sending advisers to improve management techniques in meat-processing plants, rubber companies and fertilizer factories.
Peter W. Moyer, a 61-year-old retired financial executive with the Exxon Corporation, recently returned to his New Canaan home from a mission to Hungary to help the state-owned rubber company in Budapest learn cash forecasting.
''Their budget was running amok,'' Mr. Moyer said, adding that there were few if any management controls on borrowing for a company that he called the Goodyear Company of Hungary.
Among other measures, Mr. Moyer urged company officials to reduce inventory and to buy fewer raw materials. He said he was not certain that his advice was taken but he was heartened that two days before he left he was asked to deliver a two-hour presentation on his recommendations to the entire management staff.
The executive corps' current budget will provide enough money to send volunteers on 710 missions this year, a figure that would easily double if more funds were available, spokesmen for the organization said.
 
'Old Is an Interpretation'
Recruiting additional volunteer executives is relatively easy, said Casper J. Fishback, a 79-year-old volunteer executive recruiter from Rye, N.Y. ''Each of us have friends who want something to do,'' he said. ''Old is an interpretation and a personal thing. We have a number of 85-year-olds who want to know, when is the next project?''
Mr. Davidson said that when he walked into the executive corps offices for his interview at the age of 66, he thought to himself: ''This can't be for me. There are a lot of old people around here.''
Fifteen years later, Mr. Davidson spends three days a week at executive corps headquarters, between his own trips to help recruit additional volunteers and evaluate requests for help from participating countries.''
''There's a great demand for hands-on entrepreneurs around the world,'' he said. ''The concept of profitability is something many companies in these countries don't know anything about.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (94%); CHINA (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); KENYA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MOLDING CO (91%); INTERNATIONAL EXECUTIVE SERVICE CORPS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL EXECUTIVE SERVICE CORP (STAMFORD, CONN)

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; VOLUNTEERS RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PLASTIC PRODUCTS MFG (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PATENTS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA; DAVIDSON, EMIL ELIZABETH DOLE (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



81 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1, Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2180 words

HEADLINE: Effects of Final I-287 Link Are Debated

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
FROM Montville to Mahwah, the final 19-mile link of Interstate 287 is slowly taking shape amid the crumbling rock and pristine riverbanks of some of New Jersey's most desirable real estate.
When construction on the project began more than 30 years ago, the federally financed highway was envisioned by officials as a crucial link for New Jersey, New York and southern New England. It would efficiently route interstate traffic around densely populated northeastern New Jersey and provide a quick and easy bypass to points north and south of the New York metropolitan area.
But after decades of controversy, the 19-mile swath of superhighway, which will slice through Morris, Bergen and Passaic Counties and which state and Federal officials believe will solve the area's transportation woes, is now perceived by residents, environmentalists and local officials as the harbinger of serious traffic and environmental problems as it leaves a wake of commercial, industrial and residential development in its path.
''It will cause a traffic nightmare,'' said Joseph Smith, chairman of the Fair Lawn Planning Board. ''I think that the benefits of the road locally are really nonexistent.'' 
The borough of Fair Lawn, a residential community at the intersection of Routes 4, 17 and 208, is nearly eight miles east of Interstate 287. But the fact that officials there are concerned with the highway's potential impact underscores the notion that the rambling interstate will have a widespread effect on traffic and congestion throughout the entire region.
This apparent paradox, the possibility that a high-speed, six-lane superhighway could make existing traffic problems worse rather than relieve them, has prompted the Bergen County Department of Planning and Economic Development to commission a study to assess the effect that completion of the highway will have on the surrounding area.
''We simply don't know the impact it will have,'' said Chester Mattson, director of the county agency. ''The reason is because patterns of development and patterns for the delivery of goods have undoubtedly changed since the roadway was designed.''
An interstate highway system, he said, is designed with regional traffic patterns in mind. ''You look at alternative routes, alternative pathways for the road, you go to public hearings, people complain, you come up with a final alignment, and then you build,'' he said. Often, he said, such planning ultimately overlooks local concerns.
The study, Mr. Mattson said, will use computer models of traffic flow, employment projections and population growth for 15 communities in northwest Bergen County - the area most likely to be affected by completion of Interstate 287 - to develop strategies to deal with anticipated traffic problems.
''We'll ask the computer to act like a commuter,'' he said. ''We'll just keep loading in new houses and new offices and ask the imaginary people who come out of them to get on the roadway system and go from here to there and back again.
''We hope it will tell us where traffic is going to be the heaviest, and we need to know that before the highway opens.''
Officials say the final section of roadway, which will link the rest of Interstate 287 with Interstate 87 in New York State, is scheduled to open in the spring of 1994, more than 35 years after construction began.
In 1956, President Dwight D. Eisenhower approved a 41,000-mile nationwide network of superhighways that was initially intended to ease movement of military troops and supplies and expedite evacuation of population centers in the event of a disaster.
Over the years, as the interstate system developed, New Jersey constructed more than 400 miles of highway with the assistance of large infusions of Federal funds - originally 90 percent of the total cost of each project.
Included in the system were Interstate 80, the east-west corridor that connects New York and Pennsylvania through northern New Jersey; the New Jersey Turnpike, which runs longitudinally from one end of the state to the other, and Interstate 287, which was to start at Perth Amboy and end at Mahwah and form the New Jersey segment of a ''beltway'' encircling the entire New York metropolitan area.
Construction of Interstate 287 started in 1958 in Somerset County and proceeded east toward Staten Island and north toward its New Jersey terminus just south of Suffern, N.Y.
In 1965, the first stirrings of public opposition to the roadway were heard when residents of Wayne, Franklin Lakes and Mahwah urged the State Department of Transportation to move the northern end of the highway more to the west.
The state demurred and retained the original routing, and since that time the fate of that last 19-mile stretch of road has been obscured by years of litigation, public protest, political infighting and even Congressional intervention. In 1973, a measure sponsored by Representative Robert A. Roe, Democrat of Pompton Lakes, required additional public hearings on the highway's routing.
Like a river seeking the path of least resistance, the last link in the 64-mile-long highway has since fought its way through mountains and valleys of natural obstacles and man-made political obstructions. Only in 1988 did the Army Corps of Engineers issue final permits allowing completion of the last link of the interstate.
 
'Fighting This for 20 Years'
''I've been fighting this thing for 20 years,'' Mayor William Vichiconti of Franklin Lakes said. ''I don't know how much more I can do, although I have seen them stop with bridges in the air before.''
Mr. Vichiconti acknowledges, however, that the likelihood of blocking the completion of the highway is remote. ''Now I'm just trying to make sure,'' he said, that the Department of Transportation ''does the right thing.''
His primary concerns, he said, are increased traffic and pollution of both air and water in the township. ''We've got 20, 30 lakes here of varying sizes - one major one is right off the highway - and I'm afraid we'll get pollution from gas and oil and salt that will drain off the highway and into the lakes,'' he said.
Mr. Vichiconti is not alone in his concern that completion of the highway may harm the environment.
''This highway destroys a considerable amount of wetlands,'' said Dr. Ella Fillipone, director of the Passaic River Coalition, an environmental group in Basking Ridge. The permit issued by the Corps of Engineers, she said, requires the Department of Transportation to create new wetlands to replace those lost as a result of the highway.
''The state must assure survival of the new wetlands for a five-year period,'' Dr. Fillipone said. ''But at the end of five years, who is going to maintain them?'' If the system is not manipulated to provide the area with a constant water supply, she said, the man-made wetlands will quickly revert to their natural state.
 
Better Air Quality Expected
''There's no question,'' said Robert A. Innocenzi, Acting Commissioner of the State Department of Transportation, ''that there are some environmental impacts when you build a highway. But once you get past construction, and complete the wetlands mitigation, I think the environmental impact is positive because you're moving traffic on the freeway, which will improve the air quality.''
In regard to maintenance of the new wetlands created, he said: ''Yes, they still have to be looked after, and we will look to the State Department of Environmental Protection to assist us in that regard.''
Residents in the area, however, also express concerns about the environmental and esthetic effects of the highway's completion.
''They're destroying the mountain,'' said Joe Iuelja, a resident of Oakland. ''When you look at the scenery now, all you see is rock. It's a shame. It used to be all woods.'' Experts, however, say that development necessitates certain trade-offs.
''You don't make an omelet without cracking a few eggs,'' said Dr. George Sternlieb, professor of urban studies at Rutgers University in New Brunswick. ''You have to balance the interest of a couple of hundred campers and hikers versus thousands of new housing units and jobs.
''In my eyes, I think that this is as painless a place as any to put a highway.'' He added that he did not think that the location chosen for the highway would have any severe consequences.
Highways, Dr. Sternlieb said, determine where people live and work. ''We're seeing that population and jobs follow the highway the way they used to follow the railroads,'' he said. Highways, he said, create development. And if there is one thing everyone agrees upon, it is that construction of the final link of Interstate 287 has created unprecedented demand for development in the area.
''I certainly think it's going to be an economic boon for the municipalities through which it passes,'' said State Senator Leanna Brown, Republican of Chatham.
 
Seeking to Be Included
Indeed, at the same time that Montville, Mahwah and Wayne were fighting to keep the highway out of their borders, Bloomingdale, Riverdale and Wanaque were fighting to get it in.
''We're all for it,'' Mayor Angelo Cutillo of Wanaque said. ''It's horrendous to get from anywhere in town to any major road.'' A proposed Interstate 287 interchange to be situated in the town, he said, ''will definitely alleviate our traffic problems.''
But the interchange, he said, will also solve another problem that Wanaque currently faces: ''We are in dire need of ratables,'' Mr. Cutillo said.
A proposal by the Hahn Company of San Diego and Cali Associates, a Cranford developer, would convert 600 acres of vacant Wanaque land into a shopping center complex with a hotel, movie theaters, restaurants and office buildings. The project, Mr. Cutillo said, would cost about $200 million. The entire 1989 municipal budget for Wanaque, he said, is $5.4 million.
''We're just waiting for the state to tell us where they're going to put the interchange,'' Mr. Cutillo said.
Over the last 20 years, largely as a result of the planned completion of Interstate 287, hundreds of millions of dollars have poured into the area as developers and investors buy up every piece of vacant land that becomes available.
In Mahwah, for example, from 1975 to 1989, 2,700 building permits were approved for individual dwellings, while 1,400 more are currently pending approval. More than two million square feet of office space has already been approved, while an additional 360,000 square feet is awaiting approval. Population in the town, which was 14,738 in 1987, is estimated at 24,750 by the year 2010.
''At this point,'' said Mayor William Raquet of Mahwah, ''we're not looking for any more ratables. We'd rather sort of see things settle down so that we can retain the open areas that are left.''
Since Mahwah was almost certainly going to be near an Interstate 287 interchange because of its location just south of Suffern, development in the town was virtually guaranteed.
 
Hotel and Office Complex Built
In 1984, for example, the J. D. Construction Corporation, a Mahwah developer, purchased the vacant Ford assembly plant at the proposed intersection of Route 17 and Interstate 287 in Mahwah and promptly tore it down. In its place, J. D. Construction built the $300 million International Crossroads, a 22-story hotel and office complex.
''When 287 is complete, it's going to take all the truck traffic off of Route 17,'' said James D'Agostino, chairman of J. D. Construction. ''It will be a great relief. The road network will be so good in this area that now we want to put up a shopping center in addition to the office building.''
McBride Enterprises, a Franklin Lakes development concern, has been accumulating and developing property from Mahwah to Montville for the last 20 years. Included in the McBride purchases are the Oakland Industrial Park, the Ramapo Ridge-McBride Office Park in Mahwah and Urban Farms in Franklin Lakes, one of the most expensive residential developments in the state.
There are those, however, who feel that development that encourages suburban sprawl is counterproductive and serves only to eventually increase traffic and congestion, aggravate negative environmental factors and foster abandonment of cities and urban centers of production.
For them, the completion of Interstate 287 accomplishes all those things and more.
''This is a project that never should have begun,'' said Representative Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of Englewood. ''For those who believe that there is economic development through further decentralization of our economic centers, then this is the answer.''
The funds used to complete the road, he said, would have been better spent to improve existing interstate highways that are desperately in need of repair.
According to Federal Highway Administration estimates, the cost of completing the final 19-mile link from Montville to Mahwah will be about $450 million. The original estimate for the entire 64-mile New Jersey portion of the highway was $156 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo of map highlighting the proposed route for the link of the two separate sections of I-287; Rock Spoerl, construction engineer (pg. 20); a work crew laying a culvert in Franklin Lakes (pg. 21) NYT/Eddie Hausner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; BERGEN COUNTY (NJ)

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CITIES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); POPULATION GROWTH (64%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY



82 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 2, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Secaucus Journal;
From Farms to Shoppers' Mecca

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

DATELINE: SECAUCUS

 BODY:
YEARS ago, the town of Secaucus enjoyed two unusual claims to fame: the failed 1956 Presidential bid of Henry Krajewski, a local tavern owner, and the dubious distinction of being prime real estate for pig farmers. Indeed, Mr. Krajewski, who ran as an independent, adopted as his campaign slogan ''No Piggy Deals in Washington.'' Times have changed. Mr. Krajewski died in 1966, his Presidential aspirations unfulfilled. The pig farms have given way to warehouse outlet stores, corporate headquarters and elegant shopping malls. And a drive down Secaucus Road is now likely to lead to a stationary sea of cars filled with New York shoppers, all breathing the sweet smell of Secaucus's success.
In the last 25 years, this modestly sized slice of former wetlands on the fringe of Hudson County has become a major player in the shopping-mall wars of New Jersey. And while shoppers from as far away as Virginia search the outlet centers and mini-malls for bargains, officials and longtime residents seem to furrow their brows, scratch their heads and wonder how it all happened so fast.
''We just grew, and grew, and grew,'' said Mayor Paul Amico, who was recently elected to his 14th term. ''And I think that the benefits far outweigh the disadvantages.'' 
The benefits, he said, are primarily fiscal: new construction means more taxable property, which means more tax dollars for the town treasury. As a result, he said, Secaucus enjoys the lowest tax rate in Hudson County. In addition, Mr. Amico said, the increasing population base, now at about 16,000, is stimulating business in the ''mom and pop'' stores that have served Secaucus since the early days.
''Development has been good for the economy,'' he said. ''The stores in the center of town are busier, the banks are busier and we have very little unemployment.''
But development has its drawbacks, residents say. Increased traffic and congestion reign major among them.
''It's horrible,'' said Caesar Candeloro, 69 years old, who lives on Centre Avenue, a road used as a shortcut by shoppers and commuters going to outlets and offices in the west end of town. ''Between 8 and 9 in the morning, I can't even get out of my driveway.''
The scene is repeated at noon, said Mary Sciacchetano, 74, Mr. Candeloro's fiancee, when employees make their way back to the center of town for lunch and shopping.
''Twelve o'clock comes, bingo,'' she said. ''There they are again, bumper to bumper, blowing their horns. I wish they'd bring their lunch to the office.''
Secaucus's renaissance dates to 1968, when Hartz Mountain Industries, a New Jersey-based pet-food manufacturer, started buying property and constructing warehouse buildings in the meadowlands on the outskirts of town. The area had previously been considered undevelopable because of its topography. But rising real-estate values, proximity to the New Jersey Turnpike and other major highways and limited industrially zoned acreage close to New York City made even the soggy, cattail-covered marshlands increasingly valuable.
''It became worth the cost of developing it,'' said Mort Goldfein, senior vice president of Hartz Mountain. As a result, he said, the company has over the years purchased and developed almost 2,000 acres of meadowlands property.
The first residential project in the area was known as Harmon Cove, a town house development on the Hackensack River complete with street names like Sandpiper Key, Sunset Key and Egret Lane. Then the Hilton Hotels Corporation constructed a 300-room hotel in what was then considered the middle of nowhere, while just next door and to the north, Dr. Paul Cavalli, an obstetrician from nearby Union City, was planning to build a state-of-the-art 200-bed medical center.
Later, Hartz Mountain started work on Harmon Meadow, a multi-use complex on the north side of Route 3 that included restaurants, movie theaters, a shopping mall and office buildings, including Hartz's own corporate headquarters.
Secaucus was booming, but with almost all the new construction taking place on vacant land to the north and south, the town center remained virtually unchanged. (With the significant exception, however, of an elaborate multimillion-dollar Municipal Government Center, built in 1979 with the help of a $2.5 million Federal grant.) So Secaucus residents, who for years had been socially adrift from their Hudson County counterparts and subtly snubbed by their Bergen County neighbors, finally seemed to be finding their place in the sun. And then, the shoppers came. ''It's incredible,'' said Frank Yeo, 34, who has lived in town for the last eight years. ''They bring them in here by the busload.''
Secaucus, it seems, is once again flirting with fame - this time as the outlet capital of the New York metropolitan area.
''We have more than 100 factory outlets here,'' said Louis F. deRosa, public-relations representative for the Secaucus Outlet Center. ''And the business is definitely there; these stores are making money.''
The outlet center's success, he said, is based upon three factors: ''Name brands, good buys, no taxes.''
Indeed, with designer houses like Calvin Klein, Liz Claiborne and Harve Benard selling overstocked and out-of-season merchandise for far less than it could be purchased in department stores, the area became a mecca for fashionable, though bargain-minded, shoppers. Add to that the prospect of free parking, Sunday shopping and tax-free clothing, Mr. deRosa said, and it is a combination guaranteed to lure even the most dedicated New York shopper to the Garden State.
''About three hours,'' said Anthony Greco, 70, when asked how long it had taken him to drive to Secaucus from his home in Amsterdam, N.Y. 160 miles away. He estimates that the trip alone, which he and his wife, Lillian, make several times a year, costs about $50, ''including gas, tolls and a quick dinner.''
''Is it worth it? Personally, I don't think so,'' he said, while sitting in his car waiting for his wife to finish shopping. ''I'm not a bargain hunter,'' he said. ''When I want something, I just go and buy it.''
But his wife, he said, ''looks at every price, then she looks at every size, and then, maybe, she buys something.''
Although many Secaucus residents shop in the area and enjoy the tax benefits of the center's success, at least one official feels that some of the stores may be taking advantage of the town's accommodating attitude.
The stores were ''originally supposed to be distribution centers for excess merchandise,'' said Assemblyman Anthony Impreveduto, who is also a Secaucus Councilman. ''Now, they're turning into retail stores, and that is something that area is not zoned for.''
The stores cause traffic problems, he said, because while the new roads in the warehouse district may be adequate, the access roads that lead there were never designed to support the current volume. ''It's not like it was when this town was 8,000 people and pig farms,'' Mr. Impreveduto said. And while only the true old-timers remember those days, even some of the more recently arrived residents yearn for the return of an earlier Secaucus.
''It was so quiet and peaceful when I moved here,'' said Lillian Stahl, 56, who moved to Secaucus from Union City in the early 1970's. ''It was like real country then. But it's not the same as it used to be. Now it's just all congested and confused.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of shoppers in a Secaucus factory outlet; the parking lot outside the shop (NYT/Sara Krulwich); map highlighting the town of Secaucus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (52%); HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SECAUCUS (NJ)

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE REAL ESTATE (90%); MAYORS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); RETAILERS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (60%); PET FOODS (60%); PET FOOD MFG (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%); WETLANDS (54%); FOOD MFG (50%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY; AMICO, PAUL (MAYOR)



83 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 27, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY FOLLOW-UP

 BODY:

 
Alice Paul House
FOR the suffragist Alice Paul, the struggle to obtain equal rights for women was a prolonged process, an effort beset with many temporary obstacles and one that could succeed only with a commitment from a wide-ranging number of individuals and institutions.
So too has been the attempt to preserve Miss Paul's birthplace in Mount Laurel.
A group of volunteers organized as the Alice Paul Centennial Foundation recently obtained a loan to help purchase Paulsdale, the three-story, 150-year-old Greek Revival farmhouse on Hooton Road.
The $365,000 loan, from a consortium of seven New Jersey banks, gives the nonprofit organization three years to continue its fund-raising efforts to purchase the home and its six and a half acres of land for $465,000. 
The foundation had a Nov. 15 deadline to exercise an option on the property. The deadline had twice been extended from its original Sept. 8 date by the home's current owners, Marvin and Miriam Feyerherm.
Real-estate appraisers had told the foundation that if the property were purchased by a developer, the house, which sits in the center of the lot, would most likely be destroyed to make room for 15 houses along a cul-de-sac. The parcel is near the intersection of Interstate 295 and Route 38, within a mile of three new housing developments. One of these is two-tenths of a mile down the road.
''We are very pleased that we have achieved this goal,'' said the foundation president, Barbara Irvine. ''But this is just the first hurdle. We must continue, and even intensify, our fund-raising efforts to raise the $100,000 we need to go to settlement on Feb. 1.''
Ms. Irvine said the money was needed to cover the settlement costs and the first year's interest on the loan, estimated to be $38,000 to $40,000. A previous fund-raising effort by the foundation raised $58,000 for the down payment and related costs from 650 donors through a direct-mail campaign. Additional fund-raising events are planned for 1990.
The group hopes within two years to turn the home into a conference center where leadership training programs for young women will be held.
''There is no other historical site in the state associated with a significant American woman that is used as this site is going to be used,'' Ms. Irvine said. She said that well-known national sites associated with women - like the homes of Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton - were used mainly as museums.
Miss Paul, who founded the National Women's Party in 1916, played vital roles in obtaining suffrage for women in 1920 and in trying to pass an equal rights amendment that she wrote in 1923. She died in 1977 at the age of 92.
Miss Paul lived in the house, built in 1849, for more than 20 years. It is her last remaining private residence and is listed on both the New Jersey and National Registers of Historic Places. Planned renovation, which is expected to cost $500,000, includes partial restoration of a broad wrap-around porch now missing from two sides of the house.
The New Jersey Economic Development Authority is guaranteeing the loan. The banks in the consortium are the Burlington County Bank, the Chemical Bank of New Jersey, the Continental Bank of New Jersey, the First People's Bank of New Jersey, the Jefferson Bank of New Jersey, the Mount Holly State Bank and the United Jersey Bank South.
Bills seeking $250,000 in state funds for the purchase and renovation were introduced last session, without result, in the Senate and the Assembly and probably will be reintroduced in the next session, Ms. Irvine said.
 
Fish Census
The continuing census of fish populations off the New Jersey coast shows that the greatest populations of many species are found close to the beach, in depths of 30 feet or less, thus making the state's inshore waters a collective refuge in need of protection, said Donald Byrne, a fisheries biologist with the State Department of Environmental Protection.
Discussing the first unpublished findings of the census, which started in the summer of 1988, Mr. Byrne said recently that the census voyages, made about every other month, had so far revealed ''a trend of most fish concentrating right off the beach in zero to 30 feet.''
Mr. Byrne said that catches of butterfish, squid, spiny dogfish and other species were ''10 times greater'' in the shallow waters than in the other census gradients of 30 to 60 feet and 60 to 90 feet, up to 12 miles out.
The findings, he said, could serve as an argument against establishing an inshore commercial fishery for butterfish, which has been informally proposed in recent years by commercial fishermen.
As Mr. Byrne pointed out, commercial trawling within two miles of shore has been prohibited by a state law since the 1950's. Among other things, the law sought to protect sport fishermen and party boats from the trawlers, which can scoop up tons of fish at a time.
''The inshore waters act as a refuge, and trawlers could put an even bigger dent in the populations of recreational species than they are now,'' Mr. Byrne said. ''A trawler net is so unselective that, in addition to getting butterfish and squid, it could be catching things like small fluke, which we would not want.''
The census has only begun gathering base-line data on the populations, Mr. Byrne said, and will become more valuable as time goes on for things like predicting the probable success of a fishing season, based on numbers of fingerlings and juvenile fish that show up in the nets two or three years before the season arrives.

GRAPHIC: Photo of the Alice Paul House (Mark Brill)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAUL, ALICE, CENTENNIAL FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PAULSDALE (MOUNT LAUREL, NJ); NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES REAL ESTATE (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (50%); 



84 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 28, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Photos and Soviet Posters

BYLINE: By VIVIEN RAYNOR

 BODY:
THE opening up of the Soviet Union and other Communist countries is an epic worthy of a less sleazy age. As it is, the show now in the library on Fairleigh Dickinson's Florham-Madison campus does more to convey the feeling of political meltdown than most of the reports by the press.
This is a group of about 60 posters done by Soviet contemporaries. About half are prints in editions large and small; the rest are originals that have yet to be reproduced. Titled ''Perestroika/Glasnost, Official and Unofficial, 1985-1989,'' this modest installation is concentrated around the library's turnstiles. 
It is one thing to hear of Soviet economic problems from Western observers, but quite another to see them satirized by an artist still living in the country. Tatyana Nemkova does just this with her silk screen of a plate flanked by a hammer and sickle instead of a knife and fork. Working with Georgi Kamenskikh, Ms. Nemkova comments on the slogan about apartments for all by the year 2000 in a painting of a crate furnished with curtains and a potted plant.
The Stalinist past is the prime target - see the photo blending the features of Stalin and Lavrenti Beria, by Konstantin Ivanov. But Mikhail S. Gorbachev does not escape: Yuri Bokser gives him the old-style dictator treatment with a portrait, minus birthmark, plus rouge and holding bunches of kittens and flowers.
As a rule, the heavier the irony, the less likely the image will have been published. Nevertheless, there are plenty of prints taking issue with evils like environmental pollution, and Aleksei Gornov's poster for AIDS is the largest edition in the show.
A 1940's poster of a young soldier surrounded by improving literature represents the ''wholesome'' Socialist Realism that swept the world in the 1930's. But of the severity that briefly dominated Russian art after the Revolution there is no sign. Artists look to the West - for Surrealism and for the concept of the poster as art first and communication second. Sometimes, it is the Surrealism of old Time magazine covers, the style favored by so many of our own illustrators, but a comparable show of their work would be slicker in execution.
A spectacle masterminded by the library's director, James Fraser, it comes with essays by Dr. Fraser and Anna Suvorova, a member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, and it is on view through Jan. 10. The library, which is closer to the university's Madison Avenue side, is open from 8:30 A.M. to 10:30 P.M. Monday through Thursday, 8:30 A.M. to 5 P.M. Friday, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Saturday and 2 to 10 P.M. Sunday.
At the Rothman Gallery on the other side of the campus is ''Photo Perception,'' a group of portraits by 30 photographers that was organized by Tim Volk. The earliest is Jacob Riis's 1895 portrait of a man who is as grubby as his setting, a coal cellar, but who nonetheless prepares for the Sabbath eve with a glistening hallah.
Mr. Volk's choices seem to fall into two categories. One is the portrait that implies symbiosis between photographer and subject, an excellent example being Paul Strand's ''Marsden Hartley, Maine'' (1927), where the painter's creased visage with eyes like transparent marbles looms gray against a white sky. The other category might be called ''opinion,'' typified by Nikki Berg's old woman holding a baby, both of them naked - a statement about the superiority of new over used flesh.
Variations within the classifications are largely technical. Photographing faces in fours, Mark Berghash mocks social distinctions by cropping the results so that the drifter can't be told from the solid citizen.
For ''Jessie at Five,'' Sally Mann lined up three little girls but focuses on the nymphet at the center, who sports lipstick, jewelry and an air of spine-chilling seductiveness. In sharp contrast, Robert Mapplethorpe presents his model, Lara Harris, as a glacier, despite her physical perfection and bared breast.
Once an artist in chiaroscuro, Timothy Greenfield-Sanders has now turned to giant color Polaroids. But he is still a Sargent-esque portraitist, as sensitive to elegance as to the character it enhances (or conceals). This is especially true in his Julian Schnabel, who sits stubbly of chin but swathed in a black and red opera cloak.
The gallery is open Monday through Friday from 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M. The show closes Dec. 15. A note on New Jersey's premier photographer, George Tice, and Art by Design, the new gallery in Rocky Hill that is showing 25 of his matchless black-and-white prints, many of them classics. Viewers can begin by, as it were, gassing up at the deserted Mobil station, which illuminates the darkness at Cherry Hill, proceed to the telephone booth doing the same for the night in Rahway and then repair to the White Castle, also in Rahway. One of the loveliest pictures, however, is of the Belmont Hotel, standing gray against the marginally lighter sky over Asbury Park.
That was the 1970's. In the 1980's, Mr. Tice may have traveled farther, notably for ''Hometowns,'' his book about Presidential birthplaces. But he is still the hyper-orderly romantic, seeming to arrange his rural and urban landscapes before photographing them. The show closes Dec. 9.
The gallery, directed by Alicia Nieves, is at 131 Washington Street (Route 518) in Rocky Hill, and its professional atmosphere, not to mention its pristine decor, augurs well. The hours are 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Monday through Saturday.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Stalin; work by Sally Mann;

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (91%); FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: POSTERS; REVIEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS); PHOTOGRAPHY ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); 

PERSON: RAYNOR, VIVIEN KONSTANTIN KONSTANTINOVICH IVANOV (55%); 



85 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Retirees Are In Demand in Eastern Europe

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

 BODY:
WHEN Emil Davidson retired 20 years ago, after selling the multimillion dollar plastics-molding company he founded in Elmsford, he found the quiet life in his Scarsdale neighborhood frustrating. ''Here I knew all this stuff,'' he said, ''but nobody asked me any questions.''
Today, the former chemist and inventor, who holds 20 patents, has an international audience eager to hear his answers. The peripatetic executive, who is 81 years old, has volunteered his management expertise for 12 projects in eight countries from Kenya to China, showing his African client how to make a better bottle cap and helping a Chinese factory computerize its operations.
Now he is waiting for a new assignment, in Eastern Europe. 
 
10,000 Volunteer Executives
Mr. Davidson is one of 10,000 volunteer executives with the International Executive Service Corps, a nonprofit organization based in Stamford that sends retired American businesspeople to developing countries to upgrade management skills and improve basic business technologies.
Although the corps was formed to encourage private enterprise in non-Marxist countries, its role has expanded to other countries, including China. And recent developments in Eastern Europe have given the 25-year-old organization a new focus. It is finding an enthusiastic audience in Communist bloc countries where the population is engaged in pioneering efforts to transfer production from state to private hands.
 
Delegation to Poland
Last week, the president of the organization, Thomas S. Carroll of New Canaan, joined a delegation of United States Government officials, business, academic and labor leaders on a Presidential mission to Poland. The group will advise President Bush about the most efficient use of United States aid to that country and to assist the Poles in refining their own economic restructuring.
The five-day mission was led by Secretary of Agriculture Clayton Yeutter, Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher Sr. and Secretary of Labor Elizabeth H. Dole. It also advised Polish officials about how to sell state-owned operations to private enterprise and how to encourage individual initiative.
The trip was Mr. Carroll's second visit to the newly market-oriented country in the last month. It came after an agreement between Poland and the United States under which volunteer executives from the corps will be made available to provide management expertise to Polish industries.
''We are all participants in an event equal in importance to the industrial revolution,'' Mr. Carroll, the former president and chief executive officer of Lever Brothers, said. ''As kids in this country, we all had lemonade stands or delivered newspapers, but anyone in Poland younger than 60 has never seen private enterprise before. You can hear the pages of history turning.''
The delegation will begin talks intended to lead to a capital-formation program for Poland, Mr. Carroll said, including the establishment of pension programs and the creation of a framework for a Polish stock exchange.
Additional volunteers from the corps, led by Robert Bishop, a former vice president of the New York Stock Exchange, will visit Poland and Hungary in January at the request of those Governments, to begin setting up stock exchanges and promoting their use as a vehicle for private investment.
''There is an estimated $3 billion in mattresses in Poland,'' Mr. Carroll said. ''The Poles don't want to put their money in banks or in any other institution. We are going over there to help structure this monumental cultural and economic change.''
The executive corps, founded in 1964 by David Rockefeller, is financed by grants from the United States Agency for International Development and by voluntary contributions from corporations and foundations.
The organization's $34 million budget last year helped send 710 volunteers to projects in 48 countries for two- to three-month stays. There they provided management and technological advice to help businesses in such projects as creating fish farms, exporting higher-quality furniture or building better steel mills. Each advisory mission cost an average $23,000.
 
Volunteers Are Being Recruited
Because there are no Agency for International Development missions in Communist countries in Eastern Europe, and because the fledgling private industries being developed there cannot make significant contributions, the executive corps first 10 projects in Poland are being financed by a $75,000 grant from the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, which coordinates some philanthropic activities of the family.
Executive corps volunteers are being recruited for several projects there, said Charles V. Neiswender, vice president for planning for the corps. Among the projects aremanagement assistance for a color picture tube company and a steelworks plant in Warsaw, a copper company in Lubin and a crude-oil processing plant in Gdansk.
''Poland won't modernize overnight,'' Mr. Neiswender said, ''and we're not so naive as to think they will. We are the beginning of a process, and we recognize that sending a volunteer for three months will not solve all their problems.''
In February, Mr. Neiswender will leave for the Soviet Union for meetings with a Soviet adviser, Alexander Biryukov, a close associate of Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. The two men will discuss a series of five assignments for the executive corps volunteers in private-sector enterprises in the Soviet Union, a project that will also test the effectiveness of such assistance.
 
Executive Returns From Budapest
With the help of a $200,000 grant from the Soros Foundation - Hungary - which provides grants and scholorships to Hungarian citizens and institutions to promote the opening of that society - the executive corps has already completed l7 projects in Hungary, sending advisers to improve management techniques in meat-processing plants, rubber companies and fertilizer factories.
Peter W. Moyer, a 61-year-old retired financial executive with the Exxon Corporation, recently returned to his New Canaan, Conn., home from a mission to Hungary to help the state-owned rubber company in Budapest learn cash forecasting.
''Their budget was running amok,'' Mr. Moyer said, adding that there were few if any management controls on borrowing for a company that he called the Goodyear Company of Hungary.
Among other measures, Mr. Moyer urged company officials to reduce inventory and to buy fewer raw materials. He said he was not certain that his advice was taken but he was heartened that two days before he left he was asked to deliver a two-hour presentation on his recommendations to the entire management staff.
The executive corps' current budget will provide enough money to send volunteers on 710 missions this year, a figure that would easily double if more funds were available, spokesmen for the organization said.
 
'Old Is an Interpretation'
Recruiting additional volunteer executives is relatively easy, said Casper J. Fishback, a 79-year-old volunteer executive recruiter from Rye. ''Each of us have friends who want something to do,'' he said. ''Old is an interpretation and a personal thing. We have a number of 85-year-olds who want to know, when is the next project?''
Mr. Davidson said that when he walked into the executive corps offices for his interview at the age of 66, he thought to himself: ''This can't be for me. There are a lot of old people around here.''
Fifteen years later, Mr. Davidson spends three days a week at executive corps headquarters, between his own trips to help recruit additional volunteers and evaluate requests for help from participating countries.''
''There's a great demand for hands-on entrepreneurs around the world,'' he said. ''The concept of profitability is something many companies in these countries don't know anything about.''
 
Must Offer Two to Three Months
Participation in executive corps projects is open to men and women of all ages, retired or not, who have management skills or an understanding of basic business technologies and who can donate two to three months of their time.
Although two-thirds of all client requests for volunteer executives can be met through the organization's computer bank, additional volunteer applicants are welcome to apply. Those with skills in agriculture, warehousing, trucking, tourism, banking, hospital administration and apparel manufacturing are especially welcome.
Applicants should contact the International Executive Service Corps by calling (203) 967-6000.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Peter W. Moyer, Casper J. Fishback, Emil Davidson and John Jinishian at the headquarters of the International Executive Service Corp. (NYT/Judith Pszenica)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: POLAND (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); KENYA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOLDING CO (91%); INTERNATIONAL EXECUTIVE SERVICE CORPS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL EXECUTIVE SERVICE CORP (STAMFORD, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PLASTIC PRODUCTS MFG (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PATENTS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA; DAVIDSON, EMIL ELIZABETH DOLE (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



86 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1, Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Resistance At Budget Hearings

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

 BODY:
SIGNS of taxpayer resistance to Westchester's proposed $1 billion 1990 budget, with record increases of 18 percent to 52 percent in county property taxes, surfaced last week at two public hearings of the County Board of Legislators and in individual expressions of anger.
The hearings, one in Mount Vernon and the other in Ossining, attracted the usual lineup of representatives from agencies and organizations that depend on public financing for survival. They asked not for more money, but for approval of the proposed allocations.
There were new faces in the crowd, however - homeowners, commuters, local officials and others condemning the proposed budget and pleading with the county legislators, members of the Committee on Budget and Appropriations, to reduce it sharply before approving a final version in late December.
 
Hardship for Many Is Seen
The change in profile of the legislative hearings, packed usually by speakers with specific interests, is characterized this year by residents who have no idea where the cuts should be made, but who see financial hardship for many in the county unless the spending plan is reduced. 
In Ossining, Brian Fitzpatrick, a local resident, said at a hearing that ''15 to 20 years ago, New York State had more jobs and people than any other state, but then taxes grew faster than income'' and businesses began to look elsewhere. He said the same was happening in Westchester.
''Taxes have gone up 75 percent here in five years, but income has gone up only 30 to 35 percent,'' he said. ''If jobs leave, we'll find population going, too. We don't want to acquire the same tax reputation as the state.''
 
Determining Local Impact
A Bedford resident, Oscar S. Pollock, said he had spent some time with the County Tax Commissioner and with the Tax Department in Bedford ''to determine the local impact.'' He spelled it out as several dozen men and women listened intently.
''Last year's budget, advertised by Mr. O'Rourke as a 'no-tax-increase budget,' '' Mr. Pollock said, ''resulted in an increase of 11.9 percent in county taxes - to $16.50 per $1,000 of assessed valuation - for Bedford homeowners. The proposed budget will mean an increase in our county tax of 36 percent, to $22 per $1,000.
''What does that do to our total tax per assessed valuation? It brings it to $85 per $1,000. The average home in Bedford has an assessed value of $100,000. That means this coming year the homeowner will be paying $8,500 in total property taxes.
''We have wealthy people in Bedford, but our community is not just composed of wealthy people. Any community is sunk if it crushes the middle class. A very modest house of $50,000 will pay $4,500 in property taxes. I hope that our Board will consider how middle-income people will be able to pay these increases. We are talking about big bucks.''
He turned to Sandra R. Galef of Ossining, the Democratic minority leader and a member of the Budget Committee, to ask if any ''economic analysis'' had been done ''on the position of middle-income groups in our community, on the elderly, on retired people.''
Mrs. Galef said that no such study had been conducted but that she favored cutting the budget. In fact, Mrs. Galef has said she hopes to cut the increase to 10 percent, which would mean removing $40 million from the budget, an almost impossible task, some of her colleagues have said.
 
Defense of Budgets Invited
County legislators have just begun the process that could lead to cuts and few have focused on areas to be trimmed. The Budget Committee began last week to invite commissioners in to defend their departments' budgets, and that process will last for at least two weeks.
Some Democrats are looking this year, as they do every year, at the ''phantom army'' of hundreds of financed but unfilled jobs. County officials have defended the practice of accumulating millions of budgeted dollars as a necessary source of funds for unexpected expenses, such as paying for what has been a rapidly growing homeless population. (That population now appears to be leveling off.) County budget officials say the 1990 budget has only half of the amount the county is likely to need for the salary increases expected in negotiations under way with representatives of the 9,000-employee county work force. They are looking to the unfilled jobs to pay for the other half.
The budget hearings were lightly attended this year, with few county residents prepared, apparently, to ask for more money for their organizations in the face of the proposed record budget increase. Nevertheless, the hearings drew concentrations of supporters from day-care centers, from the the Hudson River Museum and from libraries.
Robert Trudell of the Greenburgh Public Library sought support for a ''one-time increase'' in financing of $175,000 for the County Library System, whose professional staff and computerized techniques enable local libraries to share in a database of more than four million books.
 
A Threatening Shadow
A cloud in the form of a question by Edward J. Brady, the chairman of the Board of Legislators and a member of the Budget Committee, crossed Mr. Trudell's testimony, casting a threatening shadow as the budget-cutting process begins.
Mr. Brady asked, ''What does the future look like if you get this $175,000,'' and then he answered his own question. ''I can tell you, sir, you'd be the first one I ever met who got $175,00 from the county and didn't come back looking for the same amount the second year and more the third year.''
Mr. Trudell explained that the supplementary funds were needed to fill a gap created in Albany, where legislators failed to increase financing for a system they helped organize in 22 library systems statewide. The ''one time'' request, said Joan Silverstein, president of the Westchester Library System, represented thousands of dollars in savings for local libraries.
''We have pleaded and begged the state,'' Ms. Silverstein said, ''and I don't know if we will get more funding.'' She said staff cutbacks were likely in any case, but they could be handled in a more ''orderly fashion'' with the extra allocation.
 
Not 'Book Depositories'
She said libraries were no longer thought of as ''book depositories,'' but served also as job-information and counseling centers, locations for seminars for teen-agers and community groups and for cultural, informational and educational work. The centralized services saved local libraries thousands of dollars, she said.
Mr. Brady said, ''The fact is, a lot of people in the county have this problem because the state keeps mandating while it keeps cutting the funding.'' He said he saw little hope of any change in Albany, ''so we understand that if we fund $175,000, next year it will be $175,000 plus an amount for inflation, and so on.''
Sally Zeigler of the Child-Care Council was one of many who spoke for day-care financing as an investment that enables parents to earn a living - in some cases avoiding welfare - and contribute to the county's growth. ''We figure conservatively that the county gets back $4 or $5 for every dollar spent, just in the taxes paid by working parents,'' Ms. Zeigler said.
 
Day-Care Allocation Rises
Testimony for the value of day care, with some single fathers joining in support of the system for the first time, follows Mr. O'Rourke's proposal of a $1.2 million increase in the basic allocation as well as the first $500,000 of a two-year $1 million challenge grant, with the county matching costs of new or expanded day-care centers.
Supporters of the Hudson River Museum also came out in large numbers to outline the countywide aspect of its operation, serving schoolchildren in every community and offering ''outreach'' programs for minorities, the disabled and other groups, and for the professional level of its exhibitions, some of which have achieved national recognition.
Mr. O'Rourke set $600,000 aside for the museum, increasing this year's allocation by $100,000 to make up for most of the $120,000 it lost from Yonkers because of the city's budget problems. Speakers also testified at the hearings in favor of the Council for the Arts, which is getting an additional $155,000, with $50,000 of it earmarked for ''partnership grants'' to provide programs in participating communities.
 
Golf Course Proposal
Speakers praised and criticized a proposal to build a new county golf course to absorb increased interest in the sport and to enable refurbishing of existing courses. And they criticized a proposal by Mr. O'Rourke to raise the sales tax by one-half of 1 percent, although Leonard N. Spano, chairman of the Budget Committee, explained carefully that any such increase could not become effective before the 1991 budget and, in any case, there was virtually no support for it among legislators.
But the biggest change was the random, unorganized appearance of homeowners seeking what one man in Ossining called ''a kinder, gentler budget.'' Mr. Pollock, the Bedford homeowner who works as a stockbroker in Manhattan, said he had outlined his protest, with figures to back it up, in a letter he was circulating ''to get the ball rolling.''
''Many are unaware of this incredible increase,'' he said, ''so we're going to disseminate the information through friends and organizations - there are 3,000 people in Heritage Hills in Somers alone - in an attempt to alert homeowners to what they face.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON NEON (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (75%); 

PERSON: FERON, JAMES



87 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL FINANCE;
TAX STRATEGY IN A TURBULENT YEAR

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD; Carole Gould writes about personal finance from New York.

 BODY:
THE turbulence this year in the stock and bond markets has made year-end tax decisions more important than usual. There is, of course, the usual guessing game about where capital-gains tax rates are headed. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks is up nearly 30 percent this year, leaving some investors wondering when to cash in their gains. Others, less lucky, bet on the troubled ''junk bond'' market and are contemplating losses. Here are some traditional year-end tax tools for investors, and a few new twists.
Strategies may depend on what an investor thinks will happen to the capital-gains rate. This year's top tax rate for capital gains and ordinary income is 28 percent, although some with high incomes may pay as much as 33 percent on a portion of their earnings. President Bush lobbied unsuccessfully to reduce the capital-gains rate this year. Most experts expect the President to have greater success next year. ''There is a lot of momentum, and it seems likely that the capital-gains rate will drop next year,'' said Vern E. Martens, vice president with the Merrill Lynch tax advisory group. 
Proposals have ranged from a flat 15 percent tax on capital gains to exempting a portion of gains from taxes. Also under consideration is some type of indexing, to eliminate the tax on the portion of the gain attributable to inflation.
Weighing the prospects for a rate cut, some investors might want to consider delaying their gains. One way to lock in profits but defer the tax is to ''sell short against the box'' - selling borrowed stock equal to the number of shares that you own. For tax purposes the gain is not recognized until the investor sells his original shares to close out the short position.
An alternative is to buy put options that expire in 1990. The option buyer has the right, but not the obligation, to sell a specified number of shares of the underlying common stock at a set price for a certain time. Thus an investor can lock in a minimum price for the shares during the option's duration and, unlike the short-selling method, reap additional profits if the stock rises.
The price for keeping that profit potential is the cost of the option, which may be several dollars per share. To justify the expense, the investor should expect the stock price to rise at least $10 or $15 a share, Mr. Martens advises.
The strategy is different for investors who also hold securities that have declined in value. For them, it makes sense to take as much of their capital losses as possible in 1989. Their losses can offset their gains, making the transactions tax-free, according to Tom P. Ochsenschlager, a partner with the accounting firm of Grant Thornton in Washington.
Losses can be realized using security swaps, a technique that lets investors take advantage of their losses without changing the character of their portfolios. In a bond swap, for instance, bonds whose prices have dropped are sold, creating a tax loss that can offset other income, and then the proceeds are used to purchase similar bonds.
There is one caveat. Under the ''wash sales'' rule, a person who sells securities at a loss and then buys back identical securities within 30 days cannot claim the loss. In the case of bonds, the rule of thumb is that investors should buy new bonds that differ from the old ones by at least 20 percent in terms of when they mature or by at least 30 percent on their interest rate, Mr. Martens said.
Investors with losses from this year's volatile junk-bond market have another option provided by the Pilgrim High Yield Trust. Until the end of the year, this mutual fund will allow holders of individual bonds to exchange their issues for shares of the trust, dollar-for-dollar, based on the bonds' current market value. For tax purposes the exchange is the same as selling the bonds at a loss, and the transaction does not violate the wash sales rule. Besides getting the tax loss, investors may be able to get slightly more for their bonds in the exchange than on the open market, says Palomba Weingarten, chairwoman of the Pilgrim Group Inc. in Los Angeles. For information, call 800 334-3444.
After using these techniques to offset any capital gains, an investor who still has net losses can use them to offset as much as $3,000 of dividends, interest or any other ordinary income. While a reduction in the capital-gains rate seems likely, what will happen to ordinary income rates is less clear. One change might be to end the anomaly that leaves some of the highest-income households paying a marginal rate of 28 percent, while households of lower income pay 33 percent.
Still, for most taxpayers, the rates will probably remain the same for at least another year. Thus the traditional approach to reducing tax bills - defer income and accelerate deductions - is still sound. There are several ways to defer investment income, one of them being as simple as buying certificates of deposit or Treasury securities that mature in the next year.
AS for deductions, it makes sense to consolidate investment and other miscellaneous expenses in one taxable year, since they are deducted only to the extent that they exceed 2 percent of adjusted gross income. Of particular interest to investors are expenses like set-up charges and annual custodial fees for Individual Retirement Accounts and Keogh plans, if those costs are paid separately from contributions; safe-deposit box fees if the box holds investment documents; costs of investment books and periodicals; investment counseling fees; tax planning and preparation fees, and postage and telephone costs related to investing.
This year, investors can deduct investment interest to the extent of investment income plus $2,000 (dropping to $1,000 in 1990 and none thereafter). Investors with excess interest payments may want to consider selling profitable investments to secure a gain to be offset with the deduction.
One final note: Investors manipulating their year-end profits should beware of immediately reinvesting the cash in mutual funds. By law, funds must distribute to their shareholders virtually all of their income and capital gains each year, typically in late December. Since income is taxed in the year the distribution is declared, an investor who buys late in the year runs the risk of acquiring an unexpected last-minute tax liability.
For equity funds, much of the distribution comes from capital gains. One way to lessen the tax is to invest in an index fund, a mutual fund with a portfolio that approximates an equity index like the Standard & Poor's 500, advises Arnold Kaufman, editor of Standard & Poor's Outlook, an investment newsletter. Unlike an equity fund, only a small portion of an index fund's payout is capital gains.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: PERSONAL FINANCE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (50%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (50%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; STOCKS AND BONDS; FEDERAL TAXES (US) CAPITAL GAINS TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BONDS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMMON STOCK (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 



88 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 1, Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1773 words

HEADLINE: Biotechnology Poised for Breakthroughs

BYLINE: By CAROL STRICKLAND

 BODY:
''THIS lab is bugged,'' reads the hand-lettered sign on the door of Eugene Premuzic's laboratory at Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton. The bugs in question are not transmitters for clandestine eavesdropping, but micro-organisms for cleaning up toxic geothermal energy byproducts.
Dr. Premuzic, a chemist, hopes to see a pilot plant in California by 1995 using his patented process of microbial detoxification. His laboratory, with 100-liter vats of dark geothermal sludge ready to be converted by bacilli to fine, clean sand, is in an old Camp Upton army barracks. ''My lab was the morgue,'' said Dr. Premuzic. ''I hope that's not a reflection on my work.''
In contrast to the obituaries for heavy manufacturing on Long Island, biotechnology is an area where birth announcements are warranted. 
Led by biomedical suppliers and instrumentation companies like Pall Biomedical Products, Brinkman Instruments and Olympus Corporation, the biotechnology industry on Long Island last year employed 7,000 people, according to Alex Selenow, director of management consulting services at the Long Island branch of Coopers & Lybrand, the accounting concern. ''We're just seeing the genesis of this industry,'' Mr. Selenow said. ''It's growing very rapidly.'' Biotechnology will probably not, however, mean more blue-collar manufacturing jobs.
''Long Island will turn into a university park, with the corporate headquarters and brain trust here,'' Mr. Selenow predicted. ''The trend will be to move manufacturing facilities off-Island, while the intellectual component - research and development, engineering and design - remains.''
''Biotechnology signals a difference in industry,'' said Dr. Thomas J. Degnan, director of research at North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Manhasset.
''Industry used to be big chimneys, big steel mills and coal mines. Now we have the tools of molecular biology, which are more applicable to Long Island.''
Four research centers, Brookhaven National Laboratory, North Shore Hospital, the State University as Stony Brook, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in Laurel Hollow, and 80 commercial firms comprise what many hope will be this next generation of industry for the Island.
Biotechnology, in which living organisms, usually bacteria, are modified genetically to perform special tasks, involves research and development leading to prevention, therapy and diagnosis of disease, as well as improving plant species through genetic engineering and biological solutions for environmental problems.
The industry also includes companies that supply equipment, reagents and diagnostic and analytic services to researchers and health care specialists.
Nationwide, according to an Ernst & Young survey, 1,100 biotechnology companies employed 60,000 people and accounted for $2 billion in annual revenues last year. Only a quarter of the companies, founded from the late 70's through the 80's, currently report profits.
The Industrial Biotechnology Association forecasts, however, exponential growth in products, personnel and facilities, with $20 billion to $40 billion in sales in the United States of genetically engineered drugs, such as interferon and human growth hormone, by the year 2000.
''There's no end to what biotechnology can do,'' said Dr. Terje Skotheim, a physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory and part-time entrepreneur who has started a company, Moltech Corporation, to develop biosensors for in-vivo measurement of enzyme activity.
 
Centers Are Elsewhere
The present geographic centers of the biotechnology industry are the San Francisco Bay area, Route 128 in Massachusetts and San Diego. Long Island is one of several challengers - the Baltimore-Washington metropolitan area and North Carolina's Research Triangle are others - making a strong bid for a piece of the action.
The Center for Advanced Technology at SUNY-Stony Brook recently sponsored the first conference designed as a showcase for potentially commercial discoveries from the Island's four major research institutions. Representatives from companies like Chicago's Abbott Laboratories, San Diego's Hybritech and Japan's Toyobo Company attended the three days of sessions entitled ''Progress '89: Biotechnology on Long Island.''
''The principal motivation for initiating the conference was the conviction that Long Island is a tremendous place for biotechnology because of its superb scientific community,'' said Richard K. Koehn, director of the Center for Biotechnology.
To encourage embryonic companies, the center pays for research with commercial potential, awards seed grants to new biotechnology companies and provides incubator space in the Life Sciences Building at Stony Brook.
Curatech, which now operates 13 wound-healing centers around the country, moved to Long Island from Minnesota two years ago because of the incubator facilities available.
''The ability to move into existing lab space and be up and running immediately was valuable,'' said Russell Whitman, Curatech president. ''It saved us probably a year.'' Curatech, which markets a platelet-derived growth factor, procuren, to treat wounds, soon outgrew its interim quarters. ''On Jan. 1, 1987, I was the only employee in New York State,'' Mr. Whitman said. ''We now have 50.''
The company's quarters have similarly expanded, from 1,200 square feet in the incubator to 13,000 in the Stony Brook Technology Center, with an additional 4,000 to come.
Oncogene Science, organized in 1983 and now at North Shore Hospital, is another fledgling biotechnology concern attracted by the area's scientific resources, namely Cold Spring Harbor researchers like Dr. James D. Watson, director of the laboratory and of the National Center for Human Genome Research, who served as the nucleus of its scientific advisory board.
''The intellectual infrastructure already here was the deciding factor in our move,'' said Dr. John Stephenson, president of Oncogene Science. ''For us it's a perfect location, with access to the right people and a good job market for recruiting.''
Oncogene Science, which has just begun to market TransProbe-1, the first oncogene-based diagnostic test, has also increased its staff from one to 75 employees, one-third of whom are Ph.D.'s, and its space from 5,000 to 43,000 square feet.
Figures are not available for current revenues and positions generated by biotechnology on Long Island, but the field holds promise for future payoffs.
''Initially, we're talking in terms of thousands of jobs before 1995,'' said Lee E. Koppelman, director of the Center for Regional Policy Studies at SUNY-Stony Brook. ''Each one is an embryo for the real explosion, which takes three to five years.''
''The biotech area is spawning its own infrastructure now,'' said Fenimore Fisher, chairman of the Long Island Forum for Technology. ''It will support larger and larger elements of our population.'' ''I suspect,'' said George C. Soos, president of the forum, that in the next 10 years ''we'll be looking at 50,000 jobs in biotechnology in this region.''
 
'A Clean Industry'
With general agreement that diversification is a remedy for the Island's economic slowdown, biotechnology business is worth wooing. ''It's the kind of industry that Long Island needs,'' said Ginny E. Llobel, assistant director of the Center for Biotechnology.
''It's basically a clean industry. It's got minimal transportation requirements. It's a low energy-consuming industry, but needs a strong base of knowledge and skilled workers, which Long Island has.''
The industry may be ideal for the Island, but is the Island ideal for the industry? ''On the downside, it's expensive to live and work here,'' said John Maroney, assistant administrative director of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. ''Power, space for buildings, the buildings themselves are expensive. Long Island is an ecologically sensitive area and disposing of sewage and chemical and medical waste is expensive.''
''We've had some difficulty attracting employees to Long Island from low cost-of-living areas,'' said Mr. Whitman of Curatech. ''We had to offer special housing allowances to induce people. But getting people from Boston and the West Coast was no problem at all.''
Citing the Suffolk County Legislature's zeal in environmental protection and video display terminal legislation, Dr. Koppelman perceived another chilling effect on business. ''The legislators were so eager to be first on the block and get headlines taking on issues that should be handled at the state and Federal level,'' he said, ''that there's no question people in the business and financial community lost confidence.''
Biotechnology faces obstacles more formidable than the Suffolk Legislature. Companies must spend massively on research and development before wending the maze of approvals from the Food and Drug Administration.
Seed capital is harder to raise since the 1987 stock market crash, with investors now leery of financing risky start-up ventures with no hope of quick compensation.
Patent litigation, product liability fears and inevitable delays and disappointments in bringing a product to market have also deflated once high-flying biotechnology stocks. ''It's difficult to predict when companies will turn from red to black ink and how fast that will happen on the Island,'' said Stony Brook's Dr. Koehn.
Another potentially dampening effect on the entire biotechnology industry looms with proposed National Institutes of Health guidelines regarding conflict of interest. The policy would prevent federally funded biomedical researchers from holding stock in companies affected by their research.
Although the guidelines are intended to prevent researchers from falsifying results in order to drive up the price of a stock, the plan might have the effect of impeding transfer of technology to the marketplace, since start-up companies often offer equity holdings to researchers. Richard D. Godown, president of the Industrial Biotechnology Association, calls the proposed guidelines ''anathema, an ill-conceived overreaction and a classic example of using a sledgehammer to kill a gnat.''
Of the need for conflict-of-interest guidelines, a senior staff investigator at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Andrew Rice, whose discovery of how the AIDS virus is activated has been licensed by a French drug company, said: ''There's a lot of room for corruption.'' .
''A scientist in the know could make a lot of money almost as an insider trader, knowing basic research that's going to influence the worth of a company,'' Dr. Rice said.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Dr. Michael Wigler at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (J. Herb Parsons);Dr. Eugene Premuzic at Brookhaven National Laboratory (NYT/Marty Heitner); Dr Donald Margouleff (NYT/Michael Shavel); Dr. Barry S. Coller (NYT/Marty Heitner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7733 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (69%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (63%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: EUGENE, OR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: OLYMPUS CORP (69%); COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (63%); PALL BIOMEDICAL PRODUCTS CORP (56%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (50%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPERS & LYBRAND

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); TEST LABORATORIES (89%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (89%); BACTERIA (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); BIOMEDICINE (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (88%); BIOCHEMISTRY (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); CHEMISTRY (78%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (77%); TRENDS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); BIOMEDICAL & DENTAL MATERIALS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); PATENTS (71%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (61%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%); ARMIES (56%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: STRICKLAND, CAROL; SELENOW, ALEX



89 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 29, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: At Lab Centers, The Future Is Now

BYLINE: By CAROL STRICKLAND

 BODY:
WHATEVER the eventual changes in the relationship between basic research and commercial efforts, the four Long Island biotechnology centers have many promising products in the pipeline of clinical trials and patent filings.
Much research at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory with potential medical applications stems from Dr. Michael Wigler's work on oncogenes, or cancer-causing genes. Although the laboratory receives less than $1 million annually in royalties, licensing fees and research support from the private sector, prospects for multimillion-dollar earnings are on the horizon.
If the Burroughs Wellcome Company wins its patent dispute with Genentech to sell its version of tissue plasminogen activator, a clot-dissolving drug, in the United States, the laboratory could receive $1.5 million a year in royalties. In addition, during the next 10 years, the patent for standardized bacteria used in recombinant DNA research should bring in $2 million to $3 million, according to Mr. Maroney. 
''The big one hasn't come yet,'' he said, ''though the prospects are real.'' The laboratory has already spawned a biotechnology company, Protein Databases Inc. of Huntington Station, which uses techniques and software developed at the laboratory to analyze proteins.
 
Laboratory Holds Patents
Brookhaven National Laboratory, which has 75 employees engaged in biotech-related research, has won 11 patents in the area of biotechnology since 1985. Dr. Paul Falkowski received patents for his research on increasing the yield of beta carotene (which has anti-cancer properties) and omega-3 fatty acids (a heart disease inhibitor) in microalgae.
Soon on the market will be a diagnostic kit for labeling red blood cells in cardiovascular examinations, a product of the research of Suresh C. Srivastava, head of the radionuclide and radiopharmaceutical research division.
Dr. Srivastava directs a team investigating the use of radio-labeled monoclonal antibodies as specific carriers of diagnostic and therapeutic radionuclides to tumors in vivo. ''In the next five to 10 years, we should have some very important materials to treat all kinds of diseases in patients using antibodies,'' Dr. Srivastava said.
Dr. Barry S. Coller, head of hematology at the University Hospital at Stony Brook, is also at the forefront of the hot field of monoclonal antibody research. Centocor Inc. of Malvern, Pa., is conducting clinical trials using a potent anti-platelet agent, a monoclonal antibody developed by Dr. Coller, in cases of acute heart attack and stroke.
The antibody, which has no toxic or hemorrhagic side effects and is more effective than aspirin in preventing reocclusion of arteries, may ultimately have a large role to play in heart disease prevention and therapy.
At Stony Brook's School of Dental Medicine, several patents have been issued based on the discovery of Dr. Lorne Golub and Dr. Thomas McNamara. A promising new drug they created, chemically modified tetracycline, may prove both the long-sought silver bullet in disease treatment as well as a gold mine in royalties.
Working in collaboration with physicians elsewhere, Drs. Golub and McNamara have found that tetracycline, stripped of its antibiotic properties, is a powerful inhibitor of tissue breakdown. By blocking production of excessive collagenase, CMT is effective against periodontal gum disease, corneal ulcers, diabetes-induced kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis and the breakdown of bone in osteoporosis.
The latest use for this seeming-miracle drug, without toxic side-effects, reported in last April's The Lancet, a British medical journal, is its impressive suppression of blistering in dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, a life-threatening hereditary skin disease for which there is no known treatment.
''We may be lucking out on this,'' said Dr. Golub of the potential wide applications for CMT, a drug that seems safe even with prolonged use.
At North Shore University Hospital, ''Our research is directed toward rapid application rather than basic science,'' said Andrew Szilagyi, research administrator at North Shore.
''We're bridging the laboratory bench and bedside,'' said a hospital spokesman, Daniel Rosett, citing the example of a pioneering skin patch that zaps medication across the skin barrier with electric current. Already used for beta blockers, motion sickness drugs and nitroglycerin, the skin patch offers promise in delivering a controlled dosage of drugs like insulin to replace daily injections.
The major biotech thrust at North Shore centers on a procedure called positron emission tomography (PET), one of the few such facilities in the country. In simple terms, PET, according to Dr. Donald Margouleff, chief of nuclear medicine, ''is a way of sticking a patient in a big aperture and making nondestructive in-vivo measurements of metabolic and physiologic processes. Right now there's no other way to do this.''
PET uses radioactive tracers that localize in the patient's organs to yield images indicating the functioning as well as structure of the organs.
In a pilot study, physicians use PET to predict the success of coronary bypass operations. Currently, 20 percent of such procedures, at a cost of $2.5 billion annually, have no beneficial effect on patients. But with PET screening to reveal blood distribution and areas of active metabolism in the heart muscle, surgeons can rescue still living though nonfunctioning heart muscles.
Like many researchers in biotechnology, Dr. Margouleff seemed astounded at the brave new world created by tools of modern science.
''When I was in medical school,'' he said, ''I never thought we'd be able to see the functioning of organs like the heart or lungs separate from the body. We were limited to what we could figure out by thumping on the patient's body or listening with a stethoscope.''
 
Advances Anticipated
Even more astounding medical advances are anticipated as a result of the Human Genome Initiative, which will have equally far-reaching effects on the biotechnology industry. The Federal Government will spend $3 billion over the next 15 years to map the sequence of human genes, locating those associated with hereditary diseases.
''The knowledge it will catalogue is so vast as to be almost infinite,'' Dr. Rice said. ''The techniques that will be developed will be analogous to the space race and all the spinoffs that came from that.''
Biotech boosters hope Long Island workers will play as integral a role in the gene revolution as they did in the aerospace industry, with a comparable boon to the economy. ''We have a lot of start-up biotech companies gearing up,'' said Ms. Llobel.
''Eighty percent of industrial growth on Long Island has not been from outside firms coming in but these incubator firms that started with five or 10 employees,'' Dr. Koppelman said. ''I look to see growth from the inside, which then becomes a magnet for outside firms as in Silicon Valley.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of researchers in a laboratory at University Hospital in Stony Brook (NYT/Marty Heitner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PDIQ (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (68%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (91%); BURROUGHS WELLCOME CO (71%); IDP LIQUIDATING CORP (68%); CENTOCOR INC (63%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (82%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY; BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY; UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (STONY BROOK); BURROUGHS WELLCOME CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY PATENTS (94%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (89%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS (89%); RADIOLOGY (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); CANCER (89%); CLINICAL TRIALS (89%); ANTICOAGULANTS (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); VACCINES (87%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (87%); IMMUNODIAGNOSTICS (86%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); BIOLOGICAL FACTORS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); DNA (78%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); PATHOLOGY (77%); CANCER DRUGS (77%); ANTIBIOTICS (77%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (77%); BIOCHEMISTRY (76%); BACTERIA (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); DENTISTRY (71%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (64%); STROKES (64%); 

PERSON: STRICKLAND, CAROL; WIGLER, MICHAEL (DR) MICHAEL WIGLER (73%); 



90 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 1989

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 14, Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: An Irish Baker's Path to Mount Vernon

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON

 BODY:
WHEN John Tarrant turned 14 years old, in County Cork, Ireland, he was apprenticed to a baker. ''Did I want to be a baker? I wasn't asked and I never questioned it,'' Mr. Tarrant said the other day. ''That's how it was.'' The baker was his uncle. ''My father was a blacksmith and all his brothers were in different trades,'' Mr. Tarrant said. ''In our family of six boys and three girls, the boys were apprenticed early. My first responsibility was attending to the peat furnace when I arrived at work at 3 o'clock in the morning.''
That was 34 years ago. Now Mr. Tarrant, the president of the Traditional Irish Bakery, headquartered in Mount Vernon, no longer stokes peat furnaces in his gleaming, large new bakery in Mount Vernon. Nor does he have to go to work at 3 o'clock in the morning. He arrives on the job at 4:30 A.M.
Like previous generations of Irish entrepreneurs, Mr. Tarrant left Ireland in search of opportunity. 
 
Took a Degree in Baking
''When I was 20,'' he said, ''I wanted more education. So I left Ireland for the first time, for England, where I knew there was a good bakery school in London. I wanted to learn the technical and business side of the bakery business. I worked as a baker to support myself and went to school at night for four years until I earned a National Diploma in Baking.''
Mr. Tarrant then returned to Ireland and opened his first bakery, called the Pastry Shop, in Cork.
''The shop did very well but eventually I sold it and bought my uncle's business in Killarney,'' he said. ''American tourists would come in the store from time to time and they particularly liked our brown bread and soda bread. They said there was nothing like it in the States and they wished there were.''
Several years later, in the early part of this decade when the Irish economy stalled and business leveled off, Mr. Tarrant and his wife, Bernadette, made the difficult decision to leave Ireland.
 
Saw a Future in America
''I was 44 years old, we had three children. To be honest, we didn't feel - no matter how hard we worked - that we had a future in Ireland,'' Mr. Tarrant said. ''One of my brothers, who is a priest, was already in the United States. I had visited him and I found a lot of Irish in New York but I had never located a real Irish bakery. I always remembered that. So when my wife and I decided to take a big chance and sell our shop in Ireland, we decided to use the proceeds to start an Irish bakery in New York.''
Mr. Tarrant recalled that he walked and walked around Manhattan, looking for the proper site, until he spoke to a few people and they all advised him to go to the Woodlawn section of the Bronx, an area where Irish-Americans make up 90 percent of the community.
The Tarrants opened the Traditional Irish Bakery in a small store at 4268 Katonah Avenue in Woodlawn, on July 22, 1986.
''It took all our savings, $20,000, plus another $20,000 we borrowed from the Bank of Ireland in New York,'' Mr. Tarrant recalled. ''And at that we only had one oven and one mixer.
''I remember how nervous we were on opening day. In anticipation, we had made the same amount of baked goods we made every day in Killarney; about three dozen raisin scones, three dozen whole-wheat scones and the same amount of soda bread and whole-wheat loaves. We didn't advertise, but customers came by word of mouth and in less than two hours after we opened, we sold out. That little store did more volume in one day than we did in a six-day week in Killarney.''
 
A Role in the Community
The bakery also quickly became a community center, a place where many young Irish immigrants who had entered the country in recent years met over coffee and scones and got advice from the Rev. Michael Harrison, who is associated with St. Barnabas Roman Catholic Church in the neighborhood.
''It is hard for them,'' Mr. Tarrant said. ''Father Harrison helps them with their problems. He comes here on a regular basis several times a week.''
The store also stocks traditional Irish products such as Irish oatmeal and small gift items. But the authentic round Irish soda bread and the whole-wheat bread, at $2.30 a loaf, and the plump raisin-filled scones and whole-wheat scones at 60 cents each, have found such favor with neighborhood customers and food writers that Mr. Tarrant was encouraged to open three additional shops in succession in predominantly Irish neighborhoods in the Bronx.
''This year has been a big year for us,'' Mr. Tarrant said. ''I couldn't even imagine such rapid expansion without what I call a stroke of very good fortune.''
Good fortune started, he said, when his quest for more space for production took him to Mount Vernon.
''A local realtor, Joseph Torresi, showed me a building that was a former garage on Third Avenue,'' he said. ''It was nice and big but too expensive for me. Then a fantastic thing happened. Joe Torresi introduced me to Salvatore Quaranta and Mr. Quaranta suggested I apply for a New York State Job Development loan.
 
'I Was Scared'
''I was scared. He was talking about a $1 million project, converting the garage into a bakery. But Mr. Quaranta and Morton Marks helped me with the loan application and miraculously it was approved. Then I went back to the Bank of Ireland and they agreed to make me an additional loan of $456,000. I thought, this can only happen in America.''
Mr. Quaranta is president of the Industrial Development Corporation, a division of the Mount Vernon Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Marks is chairman of the chamber's local development corporation. The Industrial Development Corporation serves as the local development corporation in the acceptance, review and submission of loan applications to the Job Development Authority. In return for the financing assistance it receives, the Traditional Irish Bakery is providing jobs for Mount Vernon-area residents.
''The new bakery and store had its official opening on this Nov. 14,'' Mr. Tarrant said, ''Our new production facilities encompass 10,000 feet of space, which has allowed us to double and triple production. From a staff of four, which includes myself, my wife who does the books, and Douglas Smith, who has been our production manager since we started, we now have 27 people who work several shifts.''
 
He Uses Washington Wheat
Mr. Tarrant buys his wheat from Washington State because, he said, the climatic conditions there are almost identical to those in Ireland.
''We still bake the same way, using only the choicest ingredients,'' he said. ''The big sellers are still brown bread, soda bread and scones, but now that we've got the space we're expanding our line. We introduced rhubarb pies and we're selling a lot of them already. And I've learned how to make bagels, pumpkin pies and sweet potato pies, which are also selling nicely.''
The bakery has also introduced a line of Irish dessert treats, like steamed plum puddings and Irish porter cake for holiday delivery nationwide.
''We've got a lot of customers who aren't Irish now,'' Mr. Tarrant said. ''For example, two weeks ago here in Mount Vernon we sold almost two dozen loaves of soda bread for a wedding luncheon where the food was Italian. The bride's mother originally bought two loaves for the groom's family, who were Irish. But the bread was so popular with all the guests, they sent out in a hurry for 21 more loaves.''
Traditional Irish bakery products are also sold to restaurants and specialty food shops throughout the New York City area.
''We're looking forward to more growth,'' Mr. Tarrant said, ''I certainly don't think it would have been possible without the support and encouragement of the Mount Vernon Chamber of Commerce.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Joohn Tarrant with Doughas Smith at Traditional Irish Bakery headquarters in Mount Vernon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (90%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRADITIONAL IRISH BAKERY (MT VERNON, NY)

SUBJECT: BAKERIES AND BAKED PRODUCTS BAKERIES (91%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); RETAIL BAKERIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; TARRANT, JOHN



91 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Third World Debt Never Shrinks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Just returned from a conference on debt and development in the Caribbean Basin, I find your editorial ''Costa Rica Breaks the Mold'' (Nov. 2). Debt reduction, your theme, is a most desirable goal. The financial obligations of Costa Rica and other third world debtor countries to foreign institutions, both private and public, have indeed been a major constraint on development in the 1980's.
What you fail to mention, however, is that the economic policies and measures promoted by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the United States and other donor countries as conditions attached to new lending and now to debt reduction have themselves presented serious obstacles to short-term and long-term economic recovery. Structural adjustment programs have had a devastating impact on women, children, the poor and other vulnerable groups (as well as on the natural environment), as resources have been increasingly diverted from their needs and their productive efforts and directed to export production -Northern trade protectionism notwithstanding.
After nearly a decade of adjustment, third world economies are more indebted than ever. And the situation will grow worse with the unification of the European market in 1992 unless fundamental changes are made.
These are realities you should be communicating. You should also make clear that it is the United States taxpayer who will be providing, under the plan of Secretary of the Treasury Nicholas Brady, guarantees for loans made by private banks, setting the stage for a likely bailout of those banks in the future. A serious public debate on World Bank and International Monetary Fund lending and on practical policy options is badly needed.
 
STEPHEN HELLINGER
Co-director, Development Group
for Alternative Policies Inc.
 Washington, Nov. 9, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: COSTA RICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (73%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); BANK FAILURES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: HELLINGER, STEPHEN



92 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: The Budget Fix Needs Fixing

 BODY:
The 1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law was supposed to eliminate Federal deficits by next October. It won't. Worse, the law distorts budget decisions, encourages deceit and risks turning recession into disaster.
Even so, Gramm-Rudman is better than nothing, and it can be fixed to make it a little better still. 
Mammoth Federal deficits can hurt the economy by diverting savings from capital formation. Over time, that eviscerates productive capacity. Congress recognized the harm but was unable to discipline itself. By borrowing to increase agriculture subsidies or to lower taxes, legislators create visible winners and grateful voters. The cost is borne, invisibly, by future generations. No wonder the deficit spiraled out of control.
Gramm-Rudman was the remedy. It requires Congress to legislate reductions or else across-the-board spending cuts are made automatically. The law has done some good. Deficits have been restrained. But they remain far above targets because Congress has invented ways to evade the law. Budget discipline has become budget deceit. Gramm-Rudman also warps budget deliberations. It provides an all-purpose excuse for holding back on critically important initiatives like early childhood education; Eastern Europe should be getting billions. In reality, Congress could pay for these programs with tax hikes, but that option has been politically foreclosed. Despite its flaws, Gramm-Rudman remains a useful brake on Congressional irresponsibility. And it would be even more useful if some specific mechanisms were adjusted. Revise the Target. By targeting the actual deficit, Gramm-Rudman could worsen the next recession. Tax revenues fall as the economy slows, widening the deficit. Despite some protective language, the law could still trigger punishing spending cuts. Congress can remedy this by redefining its targets in terms of a hypothetical deficit: the deficit that spending and tax programs would cause if the economy were operating at full employment. Written in this way, the Gramm-Rudman law would impose no new spending cuts on a sluggish economy.
Revise the Accounting Period. Congress can now evade annual deficit targets by shifting expenses and revenues to other fiscal years. The solution is to make Congress take account of budgetary impacts before and after the current fiscal year.
Leave Social Security in the Budget. Congress ought not remove the growing Social Security surplus from the deficit calculation. To do that would unjustifiably exempt Social Security benefits from future budget pressures and make the Gramm-Rudman goal of a zero deficit excessively punitive.
If Congress achieves a zero deficit under the current rules, programs other than Social Security will be in deficit by about $100 billion in 1993. That's good enough, given the arbitrary way that the Federal deficit is now defined. Besides, a $100 billion deficit is small in relation to the size of the economy.
Gramm-Rudman is a poor substitute for a Congress willing to judge public needs, programs and taxes on their merits. But lacking this wise deliberation, Gramm-Rudman is a lamentable necessity -if these flaws are fixed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS ACT

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (55%); AGRICULTURE (55%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (52%); CHILDREN (51%); 



93 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
Subway Begging: Legal for Charity But Not for Poor

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
rrJoseph (Papa Joe) Walley, a 50-year-old former warehouse worker and recreation director, has been unemployed for the five years or so since he injured his knee. About the same time, his landlord abandoned the West Harlem building in which Mr. Walley was living.
Mr. Walley, a divorced father of three, slept in city parks and shelters until he found refuge at night in an Upper East Side synagogue. He collects about $42 a week in welfare and food stamps. When he sleeps in a city shelter, all he receives is $10.75 a week. He supplements that by begging on the subway, sometimes for the fare to get to hospitals where he undergoes therapy. On good days he collects as much as $25 in five or six hours. 
William P. Young Jr., a 40-year-old former truck driver, said he was dropped from welfare in September for missing an appointment, but still receives about $18 a week in food stamps, which he augments by unloading trucks. He, too, panhandles on the subway, where he often sleeps. He said he spends the proceeds on food, clothing, medicine for bleeding ulcers and high blood pressure and, if enough is left, a cheap room for the night.
The two men are bound together by mendicancy and as plaintiffs. They are named as representatives of other subway beggars in a Federal class-action lawsuit filed on their behalf by the Legal Action Center for the Homeless. The suit seeks to overturn the anomaly that allows groups like the Legal Action Center to solicit contributions in the New York City subway system to help people like Mr. Walley and Mr. Young, but bars individuals from panhandling to help themselves.
Their lawyers argue that Transit Authority regulations violate two Constitutional amendments: the 14th, by distinguishing, if ambiguously, between individuals who solicit alms and those who solicit for charitable causes; and also the First, by enforcing rules that could render beggars, particularly homeless beggars, silent if not invisible.
''To the extent that homelessness in New York is recognized as serious, it's largely as a result of their visibility and being heard,'' said Douglas H. Lasdon, the Legal Action Center's executive director. Their very visibility and volubility, though, is also what prompted the Transit Authority's response.
Ordinarily, thousands of summonses are issued annually for illegal panhandling in the subways. But the suit was inspired by a much-publicized enforcement campaign. It began this fall in response to complaints from riders offended by some of the thousands of people who called the subway system home and intimidated by aggressive beggars.
That solicitation for religious, political and charitable causes was still allowed - though not on subway trains or buses or within 25 feet of token booths - seemed inconsistent. It implied that the Transit Authority was aware of the potential First Amendment ramifications of its original rule. Also, it implied that the rule was directed at full-time mendicants rather than at more socially acceptable volunteers who, in helping poor people in general, are also presumed to be publicizing and promoting the destitute's interests. Lawyers for the homeless say a beggar's extended hand sends a message, too.
The apparent inconsistency also troubled Judge Leonard B. Sand of Federal District Court in Manhattan, who heard the case on Friday. He cited ''the anomaly that two mendicants can be in the subway, each soliciting for the other.''
Acknowledging that the rules do not distinguish between the homeless and others, George Sommers, a lawyer for the Legal Action Center, said: ''Maybe a rich person theoretically could go down and solicit alms, but, as the famous saying goes, the rich could sleep under the bridges of Paris, but they don't.''
Specifically, the rule bars solitication of alms without authorization, but Susan E. Weiner, deputy general counsel of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, conceded that no standards for granting authorization exist.
Judge Sand hailed as ''a helpful response'' an agreement by the Legal Action Center's lawyers that professional beggars be bound by the same restrictions imposed on fund-raisers for charitable causes - that is, no soliciting on subway cars or near token booths. The judge gently nudged the Transit Authority to agree, too, so its rules would ''be easier to enforce without requiring each transit officer to be an expert on the First Amendment.''
The Authority agreed only to stop distributing additional leaflets to the public proclaiming its enforcement campaign. It will presumably continue issuing summonses pending the outcome of the case. Its lawyers insisted that if the plaintiffs needed to panhandle they could do so outside the transit system.
With the onset of winter, Mr. Walley and Mr. Young beg to differ.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL ACTION CENTER FOR HOMELESS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; BEGGARS; SUBWAYS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); PANHANDLING (89%); CHARITIES (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (86%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); RELIGION (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); CLASS ACTIONS (70%); LAWYERS (67%); HYPERTENSION (66%); TRAINS (63%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM JOSEPH C PAPA (91%); 



94 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Exports Rise for 3 Nations

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
The world's three largest trading nations all showed a big increase in the value of their exports in the first half of the year, compared with the first six months of 1988, the International Monetary Fund reported today.
Exports from West Germany increased 6.3 percent, to $169.1 billion, from $159.1 billion. The United States had a rise of 15.9 percent, to $182.7 billion, from $157.6 billion. Exports from Japan were up 7.7 percent, to $135 billion, from $125.3 billion, the I.M.F. said.
At the same time, West German imports rose 6.9 percent to $132.7 billion, from $124.1 billion. American imports increased 7.5 percent to $241.5 billion, from $224.6 billion, but Japan's imports dropped slightly, to $91.1 billion, from $91.5 billion.
The American trade deficit improved in the first six months to $58.8 billion, down from $67.1 billion in the period a year earlier.
Japan's surplus of exports over imports increased by nearly a third, to $43.9 billion from $33.7 billion. West Germany's surplus increased to $37.2 billion from $34.9 billion.
Increased deficits were reported for Britain, at $23.3 billion, compared with $21.1 billion; Italy, $10.3 billion, up from $6.8 billion, and France, $8.4 billion, up from $5.8 billion.
The fund reported a drop in inflation among industrial countries in the quarter that ended in September. Prices paid by their consumers rose at an annual rate of 4.5 percent, compared with a 4.8 percent rate in the spring quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EXPORT TRADE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); 



95 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-16
 
Their first summit meeting ended with Presidents Bush and Gorbachev affirming the new relationship between their countries. They pledged to conclude treaties on long-range nuclear weapons and conventional arms and to meet again in June. Page A1
 
News analysis: ''A new impetus'' behind U.S.-Soviet relations may be the most important achievement of the summit meeting, during which President Bush brushed away the appearance of skepticism toward his counterpart. A1
 
News analysis: The President's shift on strategic arms control became apparent after his decision to try to complete a treaty before the next summit meeting in June. A10 
 
An offer to cut tariffs on exports from the Soviet Union will likely encourage that nation's integration into the global economy. A11
 
Economic pledges cheer Soviet aides A11
 
Instead of a cold war, an exchange of taunts A11
 
For networks, big stars, great scenery but ''Anchors Adrift'' A11
 
East Germany's Communist leaders resigned their party posts. Egon Krenz remained head of state, but his power is gone. Erich Honecker, who was ousted last month as party leader, was expelled from the party. A1
 
News analysis: The mass resignation by East Germany's Communist Party leadership is a ''desperate gamble'' 12 days before an extraordinary party congress elects a new Central Committee. A14
 
Prague named a new ruling Cabinet that includes non-Communists for the first time in 21 years, but it was rejected by opposition leaders who called for protests to press for more change. A1
 
Czechs getting a quick market education D6
 
Czech students belatedly assail Chinese crackdown A15
 
A Philippine revolt has been crushed after more than three days of fighting and 100 deaths, the Government declared. But 500 troops still controlled Manila's financial district. A16
 
U.S. grants Aquino's military quick sale of anti-tank arms A16
 
Rebel leader in Angola would sign cease-fire agreement. A7
 
A former Nicaraguan contra leader returned from eight years of exile and vowed to forge a political force in the nation free from the influence of either Washington or Moscow. A3
 
El Salvador's army of relief workers, once organized to guard beaches and fight fires, has been forced by a decade of war to aid and evacuate the nation's civilians. A6
 
India's Prime Minister, V. P. Singh, is expected to name his Cabinet soon as he tries to form a new minority Government that brings together parties of the left and right. A5
 
Two U.S. aircraft engine makers have been assured a big role in a Japanese Government-financed project to design a ''hypersonic'' commericial airplane capable of flying from New York to Tokyo in three to five hours. D1
 
Debut at the polls, 21 seats of 101, pleases Taiwan's opposition A3
 
National A18-21, B10
 
The F.D.A. is strapped for resources as its responsibilities for insuring the safety of food, drugs, cosmetics and medical devices are rising, officials and experts say. A1
 
Banking regulators ignored warnings in 1986 about the Columbia Savings and Loan Association's heavy investment in risky high-yield securities that may have contributed to some of the more than $500 million in losses the company reported recently, former officials say. D1
 
Federal limits on Medigap policies, insurance plans that fill in gaps in Medicare coverage, are the subject of a growing debate between consumer advocates and the health insurance industry. A20
 
Washington Talk: Bush's approval is high, but not deep A20
 
Report tells of security lapses at nuclear weapons plant A20
 
Poor blacks are fleeing inner cities for suburbs and smaller towns in search of a better life. The exodus is a result of the continuing collapse of poor neighborhoods in cities like Chicago and New York. A1
 
The public debate over abortion has been pulling state legislators like William Black of Illinois both ways. Once an enemy of abortion, he has found himself seized with growing doubt and ambivalence. A18
 
Women lawyers still face barriers to advancement in their firms, even though 87 percent say their pay equals that of their male counterparts, a new survey shows. A21
 
Reporter's notebook: Waiting for a verdict in Miami A18
 
Smuggling videotapes from China of the Tiananmen Square massacre was a heroic act for a Wake Forest University senior, but may also have been a violation of his school's honor code. A19
 
Regional B1-8
 
Housing proposals for the homeless offered by the Bush Administration will do little to ease conditions for New York City's swelling homeless population, say officials and advocates. B1
 
The shortage of registered nurses has sparked a feverish competition among New York metropolitan hospitals to outbid the others' salary offers. B1
 
Ukrainian Catholics in New York are hopeful after a landmark meeting between Pope John Paul II and the Soviet President, Mikhail Gorbachev, that Catholics in the Ukraine will again be able to pray openly. B1
 
Want a cab? During rush hour? It is a truism of life in New York City that it's almost impossible to catch a cab in the rush hour or the rain. But the city keeps trying. B2
 
Subway service disrupted after water main ruptures B2
 
A stock transfer by David Dinkins that became a worrisome campaign issue is being investigated by Federal authorities, the Mayor-elect confirmed. He said the inquiry would not impede the shaping of his administration. B3
 
Laws to relieve overcrowded courts in New York were called for by the state's Chief Judge, Sol Wachtler. He also urged a 10 percent increase in state spending on the court system, as well as other reforms. B3
 
Jail guard held after a shooting B2
 
Larry Davis acquitted again B5
 
Man is held in youth's killing B5
 
Officials begin seeking wreckage of fishing boat B4
 
A project for the East River piers at the foot of Brooklyn Heights has been tentatively agreed on by a team of Manhattan developers and the Port Authority, apparently foreclosing the possibility of a riverfront park. B4
 
Budget hardships at Princeton have led to a rocky two-year tenure for its president, Harold Shapiro. The discontent reflects the struggle universities face as they try to pay for academic and research programs. B1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (62%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 



96 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL
 
Japanese officials have assured G.E. and Pratt & Whitney of a big role in a Government-financed project to design an extremely fast commercial aircraft. The Ministry of Trade and Industry hopes to spend $200 million in the next few years designing an engine for the ''hypersonic'' aircraft, which would travel at five times the speed of sound. The companies have indicated that they would need U.S. approval before signing any contracts. [Page D1.] 
 
Government and professional groups in Britain are pressing ahead with reforms that for the first time in decades could allow accounting firms there to incorporate for the purpose of raising outside equity capital. Outside capital has become more alluring since the profession's moves into nontraditional services. [D1.]
 
Dollars are costing far more on Czechoslovakia's black market. The word on the street - or at least in taxicabs where the drivers run a thriving money-changing business - is that many Czechs rushed to buy hard currency as soon as the Government said it would open the Czechoslovak-Austrian border. [D6.]
 
Beijing's political crackdown has stalled progress on an ambitious project to copy the success of Hong Kong on southern China's Hainan Island, where a chunk of land was to be leased to a foreign company for transformation into a duty-free port and a modern city of several hundred thousand people. [D6.]
 
Congress and the business community are likely to endorse President Bush's proposals at the Malta summit encouraging the Soviet Union's integration into the global economy. The President has offered to cut punitively high tariffs on Soviet exports and to support observer status for Moscow in GATT. [A11.]
 
The Republic of Malta is promoting itself as a new international financial center, to fill the role left by Beirut. [D6.]
 
The three largest trading nations all showed a big increase in the value of their exports during the first half of the year. [D6.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Federal regulators rejected warnings in 1986 about the Columbia Savings and Loan Association of Beverly Hills, Calif., former Government officials who were involved in the decision said. They said Federal action at the time might have prevented some of the more than $500 million in losses reported by the institution. [D1.]
 
THE MEDIA BUSINESS
 
The CBS network is in danger of taking up a long, unhappy residence in the ratings basement - at a time when that position carries unwelcome financial implications. Television. [D11.] CBS's low ratings and programming problems have not gone unnoticed by advertisers. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D12.]
 
Mexican newspaper publishers are resisting President Carlos Salinas de Gortari's effort to reduce the Government's financial influence over Mexico's newspapers. [D11.]
 
The fur industry has begun its first national ad campaign in an attempt to respond to protests by animal-rights advocates. [D11.]
 
City and regional magazines are becoming anxious about a possible loss of advertising because of national magazines having the ability to split their circulation into hundreds of editions. [D11.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
A sharp rise in gold prices may inhibit further declines in long-term interest rates for the balance of the year, some analysts contend. There does not seem to be any clear-cut reason for gold's increase in price. Credit Markets. [D1.]
 
Chrysler finds itself out of step with the current rhythm in the auto industry: profits are getting harder to make in the U.S. and easier to make in Europe, where Chrysler does not have big operations as Ford and G.M. do. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
 
Nervous investors sold shares of the First Philippine Fund last week during the attempted coup in Manila. Market Place. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); MALTA (90%); AUSTRIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); LEBANON (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (70%); HAINAN, CHINA (58%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); SALINAS, CA, USA (69%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

COMPANY: PRATT & WHITNEY (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (64%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



97 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Gold Seen as Barrier to Fall in Interest Rates

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
A sharp rise in gold prices, often viewed as a harbinger of a rising inflation rate, may inhibit further declines in long-term interest rates for the balance of the year, some analysts contend.
Over the course of the fall season, gold prices have risen by about $60 an ounce, to a close on Friday of $413.60 on the Commodity Exchange in New York. The run-up has become a concern to a number of credit market participants because other factors, most notably further softness in the economy, suggest that interest rates should fall further.
Equally disturbing is the lack of a clear-cut reason for gold's increase. Among the possible explanations being discussed are the upheaval in Eastern Europe; big purchases in Asia, where demand for gold is usually quite strong, and the recent dip in the dollar's value. 
''Until we figure out why gold has been going up, or it starts to come back down again, I don't think the bond market will improve that much,'' said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Prudential-Bache Securities.
By the end of last week, the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price to yield 7.87 percent, virtually unchanged from the level on Nov. 24.
To many analysts, the conventional explanation for gold's rise -real or imagined inflationary pressures - does not seem to fit this time.
''The gold price rise is a concern and the markets may be aware of it, but the inflation picture is ambiguous,'' said Gary Schlossberg, vice president and chief economist at the Wells Fargo Bank in San Francisco.
Allen Sinai, chief economist at the Boston Company, said: ''The momentum on inflation is headed lower. I don't think the rise in gold prices is a statement that inflation in this country is going to get worse.''
Nevertheless, there are those who argue that gold's importance has not dimmed in the credit markets.
''The message gold has been sending is that of a growing fear the Federal Reserve will ease monetary policy too aggressively and risk reinflating the economy next year,'' said Lawrence A. Kudlow, chief economist at Bear, Stearns & Company. ''In the final analysis, the gold market is always an inflation indicator. And right now inflation jitters are running through it.''
 
Effect on Fed Seen
In Mr. Kudlow's view, the rise in gold prices was enough to persuade the Fed to pull back from a move to lower interest rates just before Thanksgiving.
Market participants interpreted a move by the Fed to add reserves to the banking system on Nov. 22 as a clear signal that it had eased monetary policy. To the chagrin of many market participants, however, the Fed made it clear last week that its move had been misinterpreted.
''The Fed is trying to sell the story that they never eased in the first place, but I don't buy it,'' Mr. Kudlow said. ''Bureaucrats, just like the rest of us, are entitled to change their minds. And I think in large part they changed their mind because the easing move prompted a vicious reaction from gold.''
 
Surge of $8.10 on Nov. 22
Gold prices surged by as much as $8.10 an ounce on Nov. 22, to $411.60.
Because of the rise in gold prices, Mr. Kudlow contended, further easing moves by the Fed are ''unlikely'' for the balance of the year.
That opinion stands in contrast to the prevailing view among money-market economists, who continue to say the Fed remains responsive to developments in the real economy, and will ease policy when and if it sees further signs of weakness. An easing move could come soon, if prevailing forecasts about economic data to be released this week are borne out.
Most analysts expect that the November employment report, due out on Friday, will help to nudge the Fed toward approving a decline in the overnight Federal funds rate, currently trading at about 8.50 percent.
Along with a number of other forecasters, Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Bank, is projecting that non-farm payroll employment rose by 150,000 jobs last month, down from the rise of 230,000 initially reported for October. Moreover, Mr. Fine said the unemployment rate, a figure the Fed monitors exceptionally closely, could rise by as much as two-tenths of a percentage point, to 5.5 percent.
''If my numbers are right, the Fed could ease,'' he said. ''But I would argue that bond yields won't go anywhere until we see signs of a recession or a lowering in inflationary expectations. Right now definitive signs of a recession are not there.''
 
Influenced by Malta Talks
Aside from the economic data, conditions in the credit markets could well be influenced by developments at the Malta summit talks.
Optimism about the talks was cited as at least a partial reason for last Friday's big rise in stock prices. In the past, participants in the fixed-income markets have exhibited an affinity to react to bold statements by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union.
In response to the positive tone that emerged from the summit meeting in Washington nearly a year ago, on Dec. 7, 1988, the bond market rallied by nearly two full points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (65%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (62%); WELLS FARGO & CO (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOLD; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); INFLATION (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); THANKSGIVING (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (56%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



98 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1912 words

HEADLINE: The Malta Summit;
BUSH AND GORBACHEV PROCLAIM A NEW ERA FOR U.S.-SOVIET TIES; AGREE ON ARMS AND TRADE AIMS

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VALLETTA, Malta, Dec. 3

 BODY:
President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev ended their first summit meeting today with an extraordinary public affirmation of the new relationship between their countries.
Mr. Gorbachev said he and Mr. Bush agreed that ''the characteristics of the cold war should be abandoned.''
''The arms race, mistrust, psychological and ideological struggle, all those should be things of the past,'' he said.
Mr. Bush said: ''With reform under way in the Soviet Union, we stand at the threshold of a brand-new era of U.S.-Soviet relations. It is within our grasp to contribute each in our own way to overcoming the division of Europe and ending the military confrontation there.'' 
 
Another Meeting Is Set
In the most substantial agreements reached at the meeting, the two leaders said they would strive to conclude treaties on long-range nuclear weapons and conventional arms in 1990. They also agreed to hold another summit meeting in June in the United States.
But the significance of the first summit meeting between the leaders seemed to lie more in the tone than the substance.
They ended their rain-soaked two-day meeting with the first joint news conference by Soviet and American leaders. [Transcripts of the joint news conference and of a separate news session held by Mr. Bush, pages A12 and A13.] The Tension Evaporates There had been some annoyance aboard Mr. Gorbachev's ship, the Maxim Gorky, on Saturday night when Mr. Bush canceled an afternoon session and a dinner because of a gale. [Page A11.] The tension lingered in the background today but it melted under the television lights in a 65-minute display of cordiality that ended with Mr. Bush reaching over to grasp Mr. Gorbachev's right forearm. The news conference was remarkable for its lack of conflict over issues that have long divided East and West, including arms control, the Middle East and economic relations.
For all the cordiality, the meeting did not produce any new treaties or specific agreements, or even a joint statement.
After eight hours of intimate discussions, the two leaders were still far apart on the issue of sea-based nuclear cruise missiles, a major point of disagreement on a strategic arms treaty. They remained at odds on Central America and Administration officials said Mr. Gorbachev did not give a definitive answer to Mr. Bush's proposals on an agreement reducing chemical weapons.
 
A Sense of Optimism
But Mr. Gorbachev, clearly pleased that Mr. Bush had shown some initiative on economic issues, registered approval on most of the proposals offered by Mr. Bush on Saturday, and the two leaders expressed broad optimism about the course of their relations.
Although they said they did not reach any specific accord on how to deal with the unraveling political power structure in Eastern Europe, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev seemed optimistic even about that problem.
''We searched for the answer to the question of where do we stand now,'' Mr. Gorbachev said. ''We stated, both of us, that the world leaves one epoch of cold war and enters another epoch.''
The two leaders did not dwell on Eastern Europe at length in their news conference, and American officials said the subject did not take up as much of the summit talks as they had expected. In response to a question about the two Germanys, Mr. Bush adopted what had long been the Soviet position. He said the conference on European security that began in Helsinki ''spells out a concept of permanent borders.''
Mr. Gorbachev said ''any artificial acceleration'' of the unification process would make it more difficult to carry through the changes taking place in Eastern Europe.
At times, the cautious Mr. Bush seemed to make an effort to show that all was not settled between the two nations. Even then, the statements from both sides were far more mild than the political oratory that has characterized the Soviet-American relationship for much of the last four decades.
Mr. Bush said his conversation with Mr. Gorbachev stayed cordial even on human rights. ''I remember a time when I first met Mr. Gorbachev and we talked about human rights and he became visibly agitated with me for raising it,'' Mr. Bush said.
''And I think there's been a great evolution in his thinking on that question, and certainly on his relations with the United States, just as there had been an evolution on my thinking,'' Mr. Bush said, noting that he had once opposed holding the very type of meeting he had with Mr. Gorbachev here.
 
A Briefing for the Allies
Indeed, when it came to what American officials said was the most troublesome policy dispute between the two leaders during the shipboard meeting - American charges that Nicaragua is sending arms to the leftist rebels in El Salvador - Mr. Gorbachev said, ''We understand the concerns of the United States.''
Mr. Bush, for his part, said he was ''angry'' about the issue but was not accusing Mr. Gorbachev of anything. Noting that Nicaragua had assured the Soviet Union that the arms shipments had ended, Mr. Bush said, ''I do not believe the Sandinistas have told the truth to our Soviet friends.''
Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev talked to reporters aboard the Maxim Gorky, a Soviet cruise liner, before Mr. Gorbachev returned to Moscow.
Later in the day President Bush flew to Brussels, where he is to meet with heads of state and government of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on Monday. At the airport this evening, he paid tribute to NATO's role in maintaining stability in Europe, noting that ''this alliance of free nations remains the bedrock of peaceful change in Europe.''
He also dined with the West German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, who was chosen as the first Western European leader to be personally briefed on the outcome of the summit meeting.
After the dinner, a spokesman for Mr. Kohl said Mr. Bush had provided the West German leader with a full rundown on his talks with Mr. Gorbachev, ranging over such topics as arms control, European integration and developments in Eastern Europe.
The spokesman, Hans Klein, said Mr. Kohl had heard nothing tonight to suggest that either Mr. Bush or Mr. Gorbachev had expressed any opposition to his 10-point plan, announced in Bonn last week, for the eventual reunification of Germany in the long term.
 
Bad Weather 'Doesn't Matter'
The meeting between Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev was confined to the cruised liner after a screeching gale whipped the seas so high that it was impossible to meet as planned on the Soviet and American warships that heaved forlornly on the waves in Marsaxlokk Bay.
Mr. Bush, whose staff resolutely tried to put the best face on the ruins of their strategy for television coverage, said ''it doesn't matter'' that the two leaders never set foot together on an American ship. Asked if the weather had ruined his summit meeting, Mr. Bush snapped back, ''Hell no.''
On Saturday, Mr. Bush outlined 18 proposals to Mr. Gorbachev that ranged from nuclear arms contol to educational exchanges. A senior American official who sat in on the talks said Mr. Gorbachev responded positively to almost all of them.
The notable exceptions, he said, were Mr. Bush's proposal that the two nations negotiate and sign an agreement in 1990 limiting their chemical arsenals to 20 percent of the present American level and that they call jointly for the holding of the 2004 Olympic Games on both sides of Berlin.
The official said that Mr. Gorbachev did not give Mr. Bush a clear no on those points but rather did not register the approval that he offered on the other issues.
In the news conference, Mr. Gorbachev said he had agreed with a suggestion by Mr. Bush that Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, meet in the Soviet Union in January to discuss arms control issues in preparation for a summit conference in the United States that the two leaders agreed to hold in the last two weeks of June.
He reaffirmed Mr. Bush's hope that the two leaders could sign a strategic arms control treaty, cutting long-range nuclear arsenals in half, at the next summit meeting. Barring that, he said, he hoped the two ministers would be able to resolve enough outstanding problems that at the next summit they could ''agree on the provisions of the treaty and later in the coming months it might be ready for signature.''
Mr. Gorbachev said he also hoped that a treaty limiting conventional weapons in Europe could be signed in 1990 in Vienna. Mr. Bush told reporters that he and Mr. Gorbachev had discussed in general what further cuts might be made in conventional arms, but did not talk about specific numbers.
On strategic arms, Mr. Gorbachev outlined some major obstacles to an accord. He said he was particularly concerned about remaining differences on air-launched cruise missiles and added that he had not dropped his insistence on opening negotiations on sea-based nuclear cruise missiles. Noting the progress that has been made in a number of other areas, Mr. Gorbachev said, ''The time has come when we should begin discussing naval forces.''
Mr. Gorbachev did not make it clear whether he was still setting forth a side agreement on naval weapons as a condition for concluding a strategic arms treaty. But Mr. Bush did suggest that he has not eased his opposition to negotiating about such weapons.
''The chairman knows that I could not come here to make deals in arms control,'' said Mr. Bush, who has repeatedly promised to consult his allies before making any major new treaty proposals or reaching any substantive agreements with Mr. Gorbachev on reducing nuclear or conventional arms.
 
Trade Proposals Appreciated
Mr. Gorbachev was especially appreciative in public - and in private too, American and Soviet officials said - about Mr. Bush's proposals on trade and economic relations, which included his expression of support for Soviet observer status in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Mr. Bush also said he would begin immediate negotiations on lifting American barriers to trade with the Soviet Union and would recommend most-favored-nation status as soon as new Soviet emigration laws are enacted.
Mr. Gorbachev, who has long been seeking these moves and had viewed the lack of progress on economic issues as a major problem in the superpower relationship, said Mr. Bush's ideas and the discussion in Malta ''could be regarded as a political impetus which we were lacking for our economic cooperation to gain momentum.''
Mr. Bush called trade ''one of the most fruitful parts of our discussion'' and said he would ''like to have a climate in which American businessmen can help with what Chairman Gorbachev is trying to do in terms of reform and glasnost.''
 
Differences Narrowed, Bush Says
On Central America, Mr. Bush said there were still clear differences between himself and Mr. Gorbachev. But he said, ''I'd like to feel that if there are some differences between the two of us, then they have been narrowed.''
Turning to the Middle East, Mr. Bush moved away from the often-expressed American view that the Soviet Union is impeding the peace process or, at best, trying to gain influence in the region at American expense.
''The Soviet Union is playing a constructive role in Lebanon and there is common ground there,'' Mr. Bush said, noting that it had ''not always been the case in history'' for an American President to take such a position.

GRAPHIC: Photo of President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev as they met with reporters at the end of their talks. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALTA (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: NIZHNY NOVGOROD, RUSSIA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE; MALTA

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; SUMMIT CONFERENCES TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ARMS RACE (77%); COLD WAR (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); POLITICS (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



99 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Homeless Plan Called Meager For New York

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
The portion of the Bush Administration's new housing proposals aimed at the homeless will do little if anything to ease conditions for New York City's swelling homeless population, say city and state officials and advocates for the homeless.
The officials, like their counterparts across the country, have praised Housing Secretary Jack F. Kemp for turning the Federal spotlight on housing assistance and homelessness after nearly a decade of neglect in the Reagan Administration.
But they have made it clear that the financing proposed by President Bush, $728 million over three years, is woefully inadequate to help the homeless.
In New York City, where there is an accute shortage of low-cost housing and where the vacancy rate for rental units is far below the level needed to keep the market moving, the problem is more complicated than simply a lack of Federal money. 
 
Need for New Housing
City and state housing officials said that even if the Administration were willing to devote significantly more dollars to helping the homeless, few of the estimated 70,000 to 80,000 homeless people now on the city's streets or in its shelters would be able to take advantage of the aid under the program as it is currently proposed.
Richard L. Higgins, New York State's Commissioner of Housing and Community Renewal, said a quick look at the housing arithmetic in New York City demonstrates the magnitude of the problem and the need for the kind of new housing production precluded under the Administration's proposal.
State and city officials cited these statistics:
* 36,000 people a night stay in city shelters, and at least that many are on the streets.
* 100,000 occupants in the city's 185,000 public-housing units are ''doubled up'' -sharing space intended for one family.
* The average wait for public housing is 12 to 18 months for ''priority cases'' and 10 to 20 years for others.
* The vacancy rate for apartments with rent under $300 a month is 0.96 percent. The vacancy rate for apartments with rent from $300 to $400 a month is 2.15 percent, while the vacancy rate for apartments at all rent levels is 2.46 percent. The vacancy rate considered ''normal'' for rental markets to function efficiently is 5 percent.
More than half of the money the Bush Administration envisions for programs for the homeless, $450 million, would be allocated for housing vouchers that can be used to pay a portion of a tenant's rent.
But as Felice Michetti, first deputy commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said, giving housing vouchers to homeless people in New York is like giving out food stamps when all the shelves in the grocery store are empty.
The voucher system, which has been a part of Federal housing programs since 1983, is aimed at giving tenants the flexibility to find rental housing in the location and price range of their choice. The Government sets a ''fair market rent'' for units of various sizes and pays the difference between that rent and 30 percent of the tenant's income.
 
Scant Relation to Reality
While the fair-market rent levels are intended to account for variations among housing markets, they often bear little relation to reality in a city like New York, said Steven Banks, who coordinates the New York City Legal Aid Society's Homeless Family Rights Project and regularly represents clients who have vouchers but cannot find places to live.
For example, the city housing department's latest rent values - including utility costs - are $415 a month for a studio, $504 a month for a one-bedroom apartment, $593 a month for a two-bedroom and $743 a month for a three-bedroom.
Although New Yorkers living in rent-controlled or rent-stablilized buildings might pay rents at such levels, vacant apartments in many parts of the city would cost a new tenant twice and perhaps three times that amount.
Under the voucher system, a tenant who chooses a two-bedroom apartment renting for $1,000 a month would receive a monthly Federal subsidy based on the difference between the $593-a-month rent and 30 percent of the tenant's income. The tenant would have to come up with the additional money to meet the actual rent.
 
Potential for New Units
''We always felt that the voucher system was a little bit of a hoax,'' said Harold Sole, director of leased housing for the New York City Housing Authority. ''There's not much use in subsidizing people if, after subsidizing them, they are paying 70 percent of their income in rent.''
There are two other portions of the Administration program intended for the homeless: $150 million over three years for single-room-occupancy buildings that house mentally ill or drug- and alcohol-addicted people and $108 million over three years for other rental projects for the mentally and physically disabled.
Those programs hold the potential for creating additional housing units. But zoning, rent control and other problems in New York could severely limit the city's ability to make use of that money.
Under those programs, housing vouchers would be tied to the specific project rather than allotted to individual tenants. As a result, nonprofit developers would be guaranteed a 10- or 15-year stream of income that could be used as collateral to obtain loans that might finance low-income housing construction or rehabilitation projects.
 
Bleak Arithmetic
City officials estimate that there are 52,000 housing units in 7,000 privately owned S.R.O. buildings in New York. But as a result of a recent United States Supreme Court decision, the moratorium that had restricted destruction or conversion of those buildings to higher-priced dwellings has been lifted.
Officials said it was impossible to estimate how many private owners would proceed with conversions or how much Federal money might be available to help the city purchase some of the buildings and maintain them for low-income residents.
But Mr. Higgins said, given the costs for acquiring and rehabilitating a unit of S.R.O. housing, $40,000 to $60,000, the arithmetic was once again bleak.
''To the extent the Federal Government provides us with more tools to keep and build S.R.O.'s, we welcome it,'' he said. ''But given the magnitude of what we are talking about here, this program is not going to make a dent.''
A city housing official, who asked not to be identified, put it more bluntly:
''Two-hundred thousand dollars may go a long way in Denver, but it goes nowhere in New York City. Many of the nonprofit developers here would not even bother applying for that kind of subsidy because even if they got it, it would not begin to close their funding gap.''
Brad C. Johnson, New York State's chief lobbyist in Washington, said city and state officials regard the overall housing proposal as merely the first step in a long bargaining process that will begin formally when the Administration submits legislation to Congress next month.
''What Jack Kemp has done is to announce the end of the Federal retreat on housing and to overcome the forces within the Administration that wanted to use the H.U.D. scandals as an excuse to close down H.U.D.,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''Those are not insignificant accomplishments. He's at the negotiating table, and if he's willing to negotiate in good faith, we can make some progress.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; FEDERAL AID (US); HOUSING HOMELESSNESS (95%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); ANIMAL WELFARE (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



100 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: The Malta Summit;
Tariff Offer Gives Soviets a Foothold

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
In offering to cut punitively high tariffs on Soviet exports and support observer status for Moscow in the 97-nation General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, President Bush has moved dramatically to encourage the Soviet Union's integration into the global economy.
The President's proposals at Malta were likely to win the endorsement of members of Congress and the business community, many of whom see a broader trade relationship not only reducing political tension but improving American competitiveness in the long term.
''Clearly, it is time now to unleash trade as a force for a better relationship,'' said Dwayne O. Andreas, chief executive of the Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, a food exporting enterprise based in Decatur, Ill.
The willingness to see the Soviet Union in 42-year-old GATT, which is both a fair-trade charter and an organization that promotes the opening of global markets, represents a shift in American policy. 
 
Why Moscow Was Blackballed
Although Moscow has been seeking to join the Geneva-based trade organization since the mid-1980's, Washington put the request on hold. American policymakers were deeply skeptical that the Soviet Union, with its centrally planned economy, could meet fundamental obligations of the group.
Members, or contracting parties as they are known in GATT parlance, agree to cut tariffs and remove other barriers to encourage free competition.
But in a centrally planned economy, competition has a limited role. Trade is more likely to be determined by currency availability and political considerations. Now that Moscow has begun pursuing market-oriented economic changes, some of that skepticism has been overridden.
 
Fear of a Politicized GATT
Another reason for blackballing the Soviet Union was a fear that it would politicize the organization and disrupt three-year-old negotiations, known as the Uruguay Round, aimed at further liberalization of global trade.
Some of those fears remain. President Bush pointedly noted that talks on observer status, which would permit Moscow to watch proceedings and prepare its case for full-scale membership, would not begin until after the completion of the Uruguay Round, scheduled at the end of next year.
At the same time, the reasons for barriers in American-Soviet trade are fast disappearing. Because of cold war tensions, the Soviet Union has been denied normal tariff treatment in the United States, known as most-favored-nation status, since the 1950's. Soviet manufactured goods imported into the United States have therefore been taxed at much higher rates than similar goods produced in other countries.
During the period of so-called detente in the early 1970's, an effort was made to negotiate an agreement that would have given the Soviet Union most-favored-nation status. But in 1974 Congress passed the Jackson-Vanik amendment, which linked Moscow's tariff status to its restrictions on emigration.
 
Old Arguments Fade
With more than 50,000 Soviet Jews expected to leave this year, compared with 19,000 last year and fewer than 1,000 a year from 1984 to 1986, the justification for denying Moscow normal tariff treatment is weakening.
''It looks as though most Soviet Jews who want to leave the Soviet Union can,'' Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger said recently.
A co-author of the Jackson-Vanik amendment, former Representative Charles A. Vanik, Democrat of Ohio, asked: ''Why should Soviet products continue to face high and discriminatory duties in the American market, while almost all other U.S. trading partners enjoy M.F.N.? I can think of no political or economic reason that remains persuasive.''
A trade accord that President Bush says he wants to conclude with Moscow after the Soviet Parliament liberalizes its emigration laws would enable him to ask Congress for a one-year waiver of the amendment's provisions.
Under the schedule set at the Malta meeting, the President would probably seek the waiver around June, the time of the next summit meeting with Mikhail S. Gorbachev. That would likely mean that the initial tariff cuts on Soviet products would come later next year, provided that Congress, as expected, agrees. $15 Off a Case of Vodka As one illustration of what most-favored-nation status could mean, it would knock $15 off the retail price of a case of Soviet vodka.
Soviet officials, mindful of the model of Japan and other prosperous countries of the Pacific rim, see increased trade as critical to growth in the domestic economy. The Soviet Union's level of foreign trade currently is about the same as Spain's or Australia's.
The Soviet Union pays tariffs on its exports to the United States that are up to 10 times the amount levied on other countries. Although few of their manufactured goods are now competitive in the United States, Soviet exporters are likely to try to sell more products like vodka, furs, small tractors and cold- weather gear.
Annual trade between the two countries now amounts to less than $3.5 billion. Eventually, many business leaders believe, they could be doing tens of billions of dollars, creating sales and jobs in both countries.

GRAPHIC: Graph of trade surplus with the Soviet Union from '80-'88 (source: Commerce Dept.) 9NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (70%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (70%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (70%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (70%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (70%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (70%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (70%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JACKSON-VANIK AMENDMENT; MOST-FAVORED NATION TREATMENT; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



101 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: The Taxi Quest: Seeking Ways to Make It Easier

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FREITAG

 BODY:
On a cold afternoon last week, Perry Gershon stood on the Avenue of the Americas in Greenwich Village, trying to hail a taxi. Several occupied taxis went by before an empty one finally stopped. But just as Mr. Gershon was reaching for the door, a man darted out from behind him and leaped in.
One of the truisms of life in New York City - Mr. Gershon said he has learned it the hard way - is that it is almost impossible to get a yellow cab during rush hour. That is particularly true, he said, in midtown Manhattan on a cold or rainy day, when demand is at its peak. 
''I often don't bother trying anymore,'' said Mr. Gershon, a 27-year-old restaurant owner who lives on the Upper East Side. ''I'll just drive to midtown and put my car into a garage to avoid the hassle of hailing a cab.''
The difficulty in finding cabs during rush hour has been vexing riders and city officials for decades, taxi industry officials say. Efforts to raise the number of medallion cabs from the limit of 11,787, which was set in 1937, have been opposed for financial and environmental reasons. And attempts to get riders to share cabs in midtown have generally been unsuccessful.
 
A 'Clear' Goal
But the city keeps trying. Last Thursday, the Taxi and Limousine Commission approved fare increases that it hopes will make it easier for the 500,000 people who use yellow cabs each day to find them during rush hour.
''One of the clear goals of the fare proposal was that drivers would be more willing to drive in the central business districts and to take shorter trips,'' said Jack S. Lusk, chairman of the commission.
The higher fare may also improve rush-hour availability by prompting more commuters to use buses and subways, even though mass-transit fares are expected to rise next year, Mr. Lusk said.
Under the new cab fare, which goes into effect on Jan. 7, the initial meter ''drop'' will rise 34 percent, to $1.50 from $1.15, while the cost of each additional mile will increase 4 percent, to $1.25 from $1.20. Waiting time, the time spent in a motionless cab, will go to $12 an hour from $9, or 20 cents a minute from 15 cents. The cost of the average ride - estimated by the commission to be 2.9 miles with 5 minutes of waiting time - will increase 11.5 percent, to $5.90 from $5.25.
 
An Unsuccessful Proposal
The commission also considered a proposal that would have replaced the 50-cent night surcharge, in effect since 1981, with a 50-cent surcharge during the morning and afternoon rush hours. The taxi industry opposed that plan, saying the chronic shortage of drivers would become even more severe without the night surcharge.
Although Mr. Lusk favored the rush-hour surcharge, he does not believe that it would have had a significant effect on the availablity of cabs. He added that he did not believe any economic incentive, including the fare increase just approved, would solve the problem as long as there was a limited number of medallion cabs in the city.
The need for more yellow cabs was shown in the last few years by the large rise in the number of unlicensed ''gypsy cabs,'' which cruise the city streets illegally in search of passengers, and licensed radio-car services, which are permitted to pick up passengers who call a central dispatcher, he said.
In September, Mr. Lusk voted for a proposal to issue 400 new taxi medallions. But the plan was defeated by the commission after opposition from the taxi industry, which argued that the new yellow cabs would increase pollution and traffic congestion.
 
Like Airlines on Holidays
Ronald Stoppelman, president of the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, a fleet owners group that represents about 1,700 cabs, said he did not consider increasing the number of medallions a realistic solution.
''Even if there were 25,000 cabs, you can never supply the demand during rush hour, just as you can't get an airline reservation for a holiday weekend,'' he said.
Rather than try to have more cabs, the city should concentrate on ways to attract more drivers to the industry, Mr. Stoppelman said. A shortage of drivers already idles an average of 1,200 cabs a day, he said.
Mr. Lusk said medallion owners could get more cabs on the road simply by lowering the rates they charge drivers to lease their cars. But the owners make more money by maintaining the current number of drivers at the prevailing lease rates, he said.
Another possible way to reduce the rush-hour shortage of cabs may be to alter the time when taxi fleets change shifts. At 4 P.M., as many as 4,000 cabs go out of service for 20 to 60 minutes to change drivers and get fuel. The timing allows drivers working the day and night shifts, each of which lasts 12 hours, to share in the potentially profitable rush hours.
Mr. Stoppelman said the fleets were ''strenuously studying'' a proposal to start the night shift at 3 P.M. He said such a plan would probably be opposed because few drivers would want to start the day shift at 3 A.M.
The fleets also support proposals that encourage group rides. Although group-ride programs at the airports seem to be working, other tests have not fared as well and the city does not seem willing to pay for the necessary dispatchers, Mr. Stoppelman said. A new group-ride project on the Upper East Side is to start in January, Mr. Lusk said. Perception or Reality? The city's Transportation Commissioner, Ross Sandler, said that while he supported efforts to improve the availability of cabs at rush hour, he believed that the problem may be more a matter of perception than reality.
''Whenever studies are done, they show that the wait for a taxi is quite short,'' said Mr. Sandler, who is also a member of the Taxi Commission. ''In fact, it takes longer to get a car out of a garage than it does to get a cab, even when the theater has just let out.''
The perception that taxis are hard to come by is fed by the uncertainty and competition involved in hailing a cab, Mr. Sandler said. ''The time spent waiting for a cab is probably more anxiety provoking than getting in a car or taking mass transit,'' he said.
The city should not even try to solve the taxi shortage, said Alan B. Decker, a spokesman for the Minifleet Association. Minifleets, which each own two or three cabs, control about 5,000 of the city's taxi medallions.
''Do we really want more cabs available at rush hour, when the existing number can't move because it's so congested?'' Mr. Decker asked. ''The only way to move people during rush hour is to improve the mass-transit system.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of cabs in New York City (NYT/Don Hogan Charles)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CITIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); 

PERSON: FREITAG, MICHAEL



102 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: The Malta Summit;
ECONOMIC PLEDGES CHEER SOVIET AIDES

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VALLETTA, Malta, Dec. 3

 BODY:
Pleased Soviet officials said today that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev had achieved his major goal at the summit meeting: a critically needed turn away from economic cold war by President Bush.
While much of the focus at the meeting remained on arms control and personal relations between the leaders, Mr. Gorbachev's most pressing need was to finally bring home some hope for long-suffering Soviet consumers.
Mr. Bush accommodated him with proposals to move toward ending 15-year-old trade restrictions and to help the Soviet Union join the world trade community. Even more helpful, in the Soviet view, Mr. Bush was more explicit in inviting ''a climate in which American businessmen can help in what Chairman Gorbachev is trying to do with reform.'' 
''George Bush has in essence declared that Washington has stopped economic warfare against the Soviet Union,'' said Georgi A. Arbatov, the director of Moscow's Institute of the U.S.A. and Canada.
 
Gorbachev Seems Relieved
It was with an air close to relief that Mr. Gorbachev underlined this change at their joint news conference, praising this summit meeting over previous ones for delivering a ''political impetus which was lacking for our economic cooperation to gain momentum.''
''These are of principal importance,'' the Soviet leader said. President Bush described the economic discussions as ''an extraordinarily big plus'' and ''one of the most fruitful parts of our discussions.''
Mr. Arbatov in particular hailed the American President's proposal to help the Soviet Union take a step toward joining the world economic market by assuming observer status at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the 97-nation organization that sets world regulations on fair trade.
 
Joining the Major Clubs
''This will prove that the Soviet Union is becoming a full-fledged partner in world economic affairs,'' Mr. Arbatov declared. He said the Soviet Union hoped eventually to attain full membership in GATT, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
Mr. Bush also touched on another Soviet goal, most-favored-nation status in trade relations with the United States.
He proposed immediate negotiations toward lifting the restriction imposed by the Jackson-Vanik trade amendment once the Soviet Union codifies into law its liberalized emigration policy. The amendment bars most-favored-nation status for Communist countries that severely restrict emigration.
 
Many Admirers but No Soap
Soviet officials concede that while Mr. Gorbachev has won enthusiastic praise worldwide for his tireless diplomatic initiatives, his celebrity has yet to translate into something tangible for his nation's poorly stocked retail stores.
Before the Malta meeting, American diplomats singled out this shortcoming. An official suggested that one way that Mr. Bush could certainly bolster relations was by raising such unsensational topics as the current United States ban on credit guarantees for American investors interested in the Soviet Union.
This Mr. Bush did, proposing that an end to the ban be studied. This suggestion and others may prove as valuable to Mr. Gorbachev in symbolism as in substance.
President Bush's proposals did not neglect the enormous economic problems that face the Soviet Union even it receives outside help. He urged Moscow to begin moving toward the traumatic step of creating a free market for wholesale goods.
Top Soviet economists have been wrestling with such problems, with little positive effect. Although Mr. Bush's proposal was of no concrete help, Soviet officials welcomed the simple fact that the meeting addressed their economic crisis at all.
''Finally the Americans have come here with something,'' Mr. Arbatov said.

GRAPHIC: Photo of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, center, after returning to Moscow yesterday from the Malta summit meeting. At right was Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MALTA (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); CANADA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (59%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MALTA

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; MOST-FAVORED NATION TREATMENT; JACKSON-VANIK AMENDMENT; JEWS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); RETAILERS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); TRENDS (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (61%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



103 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: As Inner-City Areas Decay, Blacks Flee to Small Towns

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 3

 BODY:
Life in the inner city has become so bleak that a growing number of poor blacks are fleeing to smaller cities, towns and suburbs in search of opportunity or, at least, safety.
Althea Harris, a young mother on welfare, left the South Side of Chicago for Kenosha, Wis., where she and her five children lived for months without furniture, even a bed. They slept on the floor wrapped in blankets.
Even at its worst, she said, life in Wisconsin has been better than in Chicago, where a man had offered one of her sons $5 to deliver ''a little package of something.'' The boy was five years old. 
The grandchildren of Delores Long cried in fear about the rats that had chewed all the way through the back of the couch in their ramshackle Chicago apartment. But they stayed until a gang of young toughs knocked Mrs. Long aside one day last winter and stole her Social Security money. Mrs. Long, her daughter and six grandchildren moved to Three Rivers, Mich., where her daughter was able to find a job for the first time.
As for Orbbia Williams, whose family lived in a housing project on the city's West Side, the continual gunfire and the fear that the shots might come closer one day persuaded him to move to suburban Schiller Park.
The exodus illustrates the further collapse of poor neighborhoods in cities like Chicago, Detroit and New York City. Professional and middle-class black people began leaving the neighborhoods some 20 years ago, and they have become virtual prisons of poverty, ruled by gangs and ridden with drugs. The poor people who are leaving see moving as more an escape than a migration.
''We came to Chicago because it was the place where things would be better,'' said Mrs. Long, who moved to the city from rural Louisiana 51 years ago. ''But it's a different place now.'' Experts on poverty concede that it is difficult to measure the size or permanence of the exodus. And they acknowledge that the number of poor people fleeing the inner city remains very small compared to those who choose to stay or cannot leave. But they say anecdotal evidence clearly suggests that migration is accelerating.
 
A Sharp Increase in Migration
''I think we would find that there has been a sharp increase in out-migration of poor people from inner-city neighborhoods,'' said William Julius Wilson, a professor of sociology at the University of Chicago. ''People are leaving because there are no opportunities left there. And they're leaving because it's not safe.''
James P. Shenton, a professor of history at Columbia University, said: ''As conditions in the inner city worsen, the very people who could make a difference are leaving. They are abandoning any notion that they can make a difference. It reinforces the process of disintegration of those neighborhoods.''
The blacks living in the inner city are different from their counterparts in earlier years and from poor whites, Dr. Wilson says, because the poor blacks are increasingly concentrated in urban enclaves with acute social and economic problems.
As the Chicago metropolitan area's economy changed from manufacturing, it moved away from areas where blacks lived, widening the gap between blacks and other metropolitan residents, he said. By 1980, the median family income in two black areas of Chicago had dropped to one-third the city's average from two-thirds 30 years before in one section and to one-half the average from nearly being equal 30 years earlier in the other.
The new migrants usually leave the depressed inner city areas for a smaller city or town with an established black community, often taking shelter, at least initially, with friends or relatives there. While one of the first stops for the newcomers is often the local welfare office, many find greater opportunities for employment in their new hometowns.
Mrs. Long's daughter, Anita, a 23-year-old mother of two who had never held a full-time job, now works the second shift as an aide at a nursing home in Three Rivers. Mr. Williams has found enough odd jobs at carpentry to pay the bills. And Ms. Harris, a high school dropout who had lived on welfare for years, proudly tells of her recent job promotion at a clothing store, saying, ''I'm now the second assistant manager.''
The influx of poor people into these communities is often greeted with a measure of apprehension. Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, concerned that his state is becoming ''a welfare magnet,'' has urged the Legislature to consider reducing benefits for newcomers.
The Wisconsin Policy Institute, a conservative research organization, has estimated that the migration of poor people from Chicago is costing Wisconsin about $129 million a year in benefits and services, but liberal critics say that estimate is too high. In the last three years, more than 21,000 families who came from other states were added to the Wisconsin welfare rolls, nearly 30 percent of all new welfare cases in the state, according to a study by the institute. And the migration is growing each year, the institute says.
 
Small Towns Can Work Better
But Paul Voss, a demographer at the University of Wisconsin at Madison who has studied the influx of poor Chicagoans, said welfare ranks low among the reasons that motivate poor people to move.
''Over and over again, we heard from these people about the desire to get away from the harsh environment of the inner city,'' Dr. Voss said. ''They wanted to find a better school, a setting where there were fewer drugs and fewer chances to get entangled with the gangs.''
In some ways, smaller communities are better equipped to deal with the poor, since the ratio of impoverished people to the more affluent is so much smaller. In Kenosha, about 35 miles south of Milwaukee, many poor families are adopted and given presents at Christmas by a prosperous family.
''When the scale is small, people feel like they can have a direct impact,'' said Rick Rhey, who runs a community center for the poor in Kenosha. ''In big cities, people might not do as much for them because it's just a drop in the bucket.''
For the newcomers, who often arrive with little education, skill or money, the move requires no little courage. They must adapt to drastic changes, including those in the pace of life and the style of clothes. The children usually enter schools to find they lag far behind. And after living in all-black neighborhoods, the newcomers suddenly become a distinct minority.
''It was so hard,'' said Ms. Harris, her eyes filling with tears. ''There were times I thought about killing myself.''
There is, for example, the occasional racial taunt. Mrs. Long said a racial slur was directed at her by an elderly white man in the nursing home where she works. And Ms. Harris said one customer in her store refused to believe she was the manager, asking, ''Since when did they start making you people managers?''
Even so, the families say they found more acceptance than they expected. And they say that over all life has brightened considerably, especially their hopes for their children.
Mrs. Long's grandchildren now get tutorial help after school through a program called ''We Care.'' And Ms. Harris's children have joined the 4-H club in Kenosha and have taken such an interest in reading that the mother sees lawyers and doctors in the family's future.
Mrs. Long's grandchildren no longer have to worry about rats. Their modest frame house in Three Rivers, which is in the western part of the state about 20 miles south of Kalamazoo, rents for about $300 a month. That is no more than they were paying for their apartment in Chicago. And while 14-year-old Rita, like small-town teen-agers across America, complains that life is awfully boring, she takes her grandmother's word that she is better off.
Demographers say it is unclear if the migration of blacks from major cities will continue to grow. Much of it depends on the success of those who are making the move.
''As long as word gets back to a neighborhood that there's a place out there that offers a better opportunity,'' Dr. Wilson said, ''the poor will be willing to give it a try.''
After two years in Wisconsin, Ms. Harris said her children do not like returning to visit their old neighborhood in Chicago, where the sight of gangs and the sound of sirens frighten them.
''Our relatives in Chicago tease my kids because they say they talk like white people,'' Ms. Harris said. ''But you know what? They see how we're doing. And now they're thinking about moving up here.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of Althea Harris with her daughter, Necola Moore and mother, Callie Harris in Kenosha, Wis. (NYT/Tom Capp); Delores Long with grandchildren Renita Tasker and David Rice in Three River, Mich. (NYT/David Witham) (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THREE RIVERS TIMBER (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHICAGO (ILL)

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); POPULATION; POPULATION SHIFTS; URBAN AREAS CITY LIFE (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); GANGS (73%); HISTORY (69%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK SIR GEORGE YOUNG (56%); 



104 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Edberg Captures The Masters

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
After a bridesmaid's season in which he had twice been the runner-up in Grand Slam tournaments, a beaming Stefan Edberg was only too thrilled to get a grip on the flower-filled Tiffany trophy that pronounced him the champion of the 1989 Masters, the last event of tennis's year and the last run of the tournament at Madison Square Garden.
It was, for Edberg, a whirlwind of a weekend, during which he knocked down the top two players in the world: Ivan Lendl, a five-time Masters champion, and Boris Becker, the defending Masters champion.
Those victories were the only tonic he could imagine that would restore a self-image that had suffered this year as he gained a reputation for making progress to tournament finals only to crumble. Until he defeated Becker in four sets yesterday, Edberg's record in 1989 finals was a discouraging 1-6, and he had failed in five consecutive finals. 
More than any other player here, Edberg seemed sincere when he conceded, before the Masters began and after the tournament was over, that he had not only wanted to win the tournament; he needed to.
''I've been waiting for this one,'' said Edberg. ''It's something I really needed. I'm going to start believing in myself, and that's something I needed to do, because I know I've got the game and the talent to challenge for the No. 1 spot.''
Edberg, an even-tempered Swede who has been No. 3 in the world since last spring, followed his defeat of Lendl in two close sets in the semifinals Saturday with a 4-6, 7-6, 6-3, 6-1 dethroning of Becker, in a 3-hour-2-minute match yesterday afternoon.
''It's not the easiest thing in the world to beat Lendl or Becker on two consecutive days,'' said Edberg, who prefers an understated approach in his analysis of matches but could not help being bowled over by his achievement here. ''I played the best tennis of my life in those two days.''
 
Fadeout After First Set
Becker, whose banner year included two Grand Slam titles - Wimbledon and the United States Open -attributed his deflation as the match wore on yesterday to a simple case of burnout. After he had won the first set easily and come within a point of claiming the second-set tie breaker, Becker's resolve, usually omnipresent, vanished.
''I was getting tired physically and mentally,'' he said. ''Not many people understand how close a match can be. One set, and if I make that shot in the tie breaker, it's an easy three-set win for me. But sometimes I'm just empty. I'm exhausted, and that's the bottom line.''
Becker had needed to resort to acrobatics to force the second set to the tie breaker in the first place, saving himself from Edberg's well-aimed backhand pass at a break and a set point with a somersaulting backhand volley at the net.
 
Fateful Forehand Pass
He pumped his fist after two strong serves put him up, 6 points to 5, in the tie breaker, but lost his edge when Edberg, who had double-faulted twice at the start of the tie breaker, presented him with a service winner, then an ace, to take a 7-6 advantage.
Edberg won the tie breaker, 8-6, by returning Becker's second serve with a swift and unretrievable forehand pass.
''After I took the second set, I could see his serve breaking down,'' said Edberg, whose play, with the exception of a single game in the third set, only grew steadier. Consistency, from the back court and at the net and eventually on his serve, again paid off for Edberg.
Becker briefly made as if to run away with the third set, where he broke an angry Edberg to take a 2-0 lead. But after changing from a worn-out racquet to a fresher one, he was broken by Edberg. That left him fuming for the rest of the match, in which he won only 2 of the last 13 games.
 
Beginning of the End
The new racquet did not survive for long: Becker stalked away and smashed it after the third game of that set.
''I picked out a bad one,'' he said, ''and the racquet is now gone.''
In the final set, Becker progressively unraveled, raising his eyebrows at his own mistakes and raising them in grudging surprise as Edberg calmly splattered his passing shots off the side lines and laced his netside volleys with a geometry the West German could not solve.
Becker double-faulted three times in the course of losing his serve in the fourth game. When Edberg smashed an overhead to the court's hinterlands to go up by 4-1, he clenched his fist in an uncharacteristic display of bravado.
With careful, classic ground strokes, Edberg broke Becker to take a 5-1 lead. Then, serving for the match, he did not allow Becker a single point, ending the contest with a sharp backhand volley into a court his opponent did not bother to guard.
 
Big Plans for '90
Edberg was so excited about celebrating with his longtime coach, Tony Pickard, that he nearly forgot to shake hands with Becker.
Becker, acknowledged by all of his peers, but not by the computer, as 1989's finest player, said later that he expected either Edberg or himself to take the No. 1 spot away from Lendl in 1990.
''If we stay healthy and play long enough, I think it's definitely the case one of us will be the next No. 1,'' said Becker, who has a rematch with Edberg in two weeks when the two compete in the Davis Cup final in Stuttgart, West Germany.
''Now I'm kind of the unofficial No. 1,'' Becker said. ''To have it written down on paper that I'm No. 1 and Lendl No. 2: that I would like to see.''

GRAPHIC: photos of Boris Beck; Stefan Edberg (NYT/Ruby Washington) (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MASTERS TENNIS TOURNAMENT

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (57%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (92%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); 

PERSON: FINN, ROBIN; EDBERG, STEFAN; BECKER, BORIS BORIS BECKER (71%); IVAN LENDL (57%); 



105 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 5405 words

HEADLINE: The Malta Summit;
Transcript of the Bush-Gorbachev News Conference in Malta

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MARSAXLOKK BAY, Malta, Dec. 3

 BODY:
Following is the text of the questions and answers at a news conference today with President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union. The session came at the end of their two-day summit meeting. Mr. Gorbachev spoke through an interpreter.
 
Status of the Cold War
Q. President Gorbachev, President Bush called on you to end the cold war once and for all. Do you think that has been done now?
A. In the first place, I assured the President of the United States that the Soviet Union would never start a hot war against the United States of America. And we would like our relations to develop in such a way that they would open greater possibilities for cooperation. Naturally, the President and I had a wide discussion, where we sought the answer to the question of where we stand now. We stated, both of us, that the world leaves one epoch of cold war, and enters another epoch. This is just the beginning. We are just at the very beginning of our road, long road to a long-lasting, peaceful period. 
Thus we were unanimous in concluding about the special responsibility of such countries as the United States and the Soviet Union. Naturally, we had a rather long discussion, but this is not for the press conference - that is, we shouldn't explain our discussion - regarding the fact that the new year calls for a new approach. And thus, many things that were characteristic of the cold war should be abandoned, also the stake on force, the arms race, mistrust, psychological and ideological struggle, and all that. All that should be things of the past.
 
Central America and Cuba
Q. President Gorbachev, what are the hot spots - what are the hot spots, President Gorbachev, that you spoke about? Is El Salvador? Were you able to assure President Bush that the Soviet Union would use its influence on either Cuba or Nicaragua to stop the arms shipments? And President Bush, were you satisfied with President Gorbachev's response?
A. This question is addressed to me? This subject has been thoroughly discussed. We have reaffirmed once again to the President that we have ceased arms shipment to Central America. We also reaffirmed our position that we are sympathetic with the political process that is going on there regarding the settlement of the situation. We are in favor of free elections, with the representatives of the United Nations and other Latin American countries, to determine the fate of Nicaragua.
We understand the concerns of the United States. We listened carefully to the arguments by President Bush in this respect and we assured him that our position of principle is that we are in favor of a political settlement of the situation in Central America. I believe - and now I wouldn't like to explain everything that we discussed on the subject, but to sum up, I would say that there are possibilities to have peace in that area, tranquility in the interest above all of the peoples of that region, which does not run counter to the interest of the people of the United States.
 
Managua and San Salvador
Q. No mike. No mike. Question to President Bush from the Izvestia newspaper.
A. I think I owe him a short answer, then we'll come over there. Please ask the question.
Q. The question was, were you, Mr. President, satisfied with - (inaudible).
A. My answer is that we had a in-depth discussion on these questions, just as President Gorbachev said. I will not be satisfied until total self-determination takes place through verifiably free elections in Nicaragua. And the Chairman gave me every opportunity to express in detail the concerns I feel about that region. He indeed has cited his concern, so I can't say there are no differences between us. But we had a chance to talk about them. And if there are remaining differences, I like to think they have been narrowed.
But you know, all of you from the United States, the concerns we feel that the Nicaraguans go through with certifiably free elections, and that they not export revolution into El Salvador. So we had a big, wide-ranging discussion and I would simply say that I feel we have much more understanding between the parties as a result of that discussion.
 
Economic Cooperation
Q. How about on the Middle East? On Lebanon's Prime Minister?
Q. Question from the Izvestia newspaper to President Bush. And if there are comments from Comrade Gorbachev, we would welcome it. There has been a longstanding issue of expanding economic cooperation between the United States and the Soviet Union. It is a very acute problem, taking into account our economic reforms and our economic difficulties. To what degree has that issue been discussed during your meeting, and what is the position of your Administration, Mr. President, regarding the expanding of your economic cooperation, and whether U.S. business would like to promote contracts with the Soviet Union?
A. We had a long discussion about the - on economic matters. We took some specific -made some specific representations about how we can work close - more closely on the economic front with the Soviet Union, and we are - we've made certain representations that we - that I will now follow through with in terms of observer status. And I think one of the most fruitful parts of our discussion related to the economy. And I would like to have a climate in which American businessmen can help in what Chairman Gorbachev is trying to do with reform and obviously with glasnost.
But I think the climate as a result of these talks for investment inside the Soviet Union and for certain things we can do to help the Soviet Union, and indeed other countries, seek common ground with these multilateral organizations related to finance, all of that's a big plus. It was an extraordinarily big plus as far as I'm concerned.
 
The Momentum from the Talks
Q. President Gorbachev?
A. I would like to comment on the answer. First of all, I confirm what I have said, what the President said. And the second point, things that have taken place at the meeting could be regarded as a political impetus which we were lacking for our economic cooperation to gain momentum and to acquire forms and methods which would be adequate to our contemporary life. Well, as to the future course of this process, this will depend on the Soviet actions, whether legal or economic. You understand that today we try to turn drastically our economy toward cooperation with other countries, so that it would be part and parcel of the world economic system.
Therefore, we think and hope that that has happened during the meeting on this subject of the agenda - well, let's call it the agenda - these have a principal importance.
 
Stance on Lebanon
Q. How did you discuss that particular option in Lebanon? And what happened, President Bush and President Gorbachev?
GORBACHEV: We couldn't but address this Lebanese conflict because both the U.S. and the Soviet people are sympathetic with the grave situation and sufferings of that people. We explained our views, we shared our views on assistance in this respect, and agreed to continue the exchange of views so that each according to its possibilities. And I think that everyone has its own possibilities. Well, President Bush thought that we had more possibilities and I thought that we had equal possibilities in order to resolve positively this conflict.
Q. May I ask the question to President Bush, please?
A. I remember - (inaudible) - and our aspiration, shared in by President Gorbachev, to see a peaceful resolution of the question regarding Lebanon. We support the tripartite agreement. He has supported it very actively. We do not want to see any more killing in Lebanon. The Chairman agrees with us. We're in total agreement on that. And so Lebanon was discussed in detail and we would like to see a return to a peaceful, democratic Lebanon. And everybody in the United States, I think, shares the agony that I feel about the turmoil in Lebanon, but we're going to try to help. We are trying any way we can to help.
 
The Course of Foreign Policy
Q. My question is to President Bush. Gennadi Vasilyev, Pravda. You, as President of the United States take - participate for the first time at the summit meeting, but you were the Vice President of the previous Administration and took part in forming foreign policies. So, what is your assessment of the course that our two countries have passed since Geneva to Malta?
A. We call it slow ball in the trade - means it's an easy question - because I really think they are improving dramatically. There is enormous support in our country for what Chairman Gorbachev is doing inside - inside the Soviet Union. There is enormous respect and support for the way he has advocated peaceful change in Europe. And so this meeting accomplished everything that I had hoped it would. It was a no-agenda meeting, and yet it was a meeting where we discussed, as the Chairman said, many, many subjects. So I think, if a meeting can improve relations, I think this one has.
 
Chemical and Nuclear Weapons
Q. President Gorbachev, did you reach any actual understanding on instructions or timetables or deadlines to negotiators on chemical weapons, nuclear weapons, conventional arms?
A. Well, you know we devoted much time to the discussion of concrete issues that related to disarmament and negotiations on different types of arms. And just as an example to show you that this was a substantive discussion, I'll tell you that in the near future our foreign ministers will meet, which have been instructed to do some specific work to move the oppositions closer.
In connection with the new interesting proposals by President Bush regarding chemical weapons which have the goal of a global ban and provides for certain phases and movement towards this global ban, then we have the possibility of a rapid movement toward it.
As to strategic offensive arms, the analysis of the situation and the instructions that have been given regarding the preparation of that treaty demonstrate that we may be able by the second half of June - and we agreed on the formal meeting at that time to do the necessary work to agree on the basic provisions of this treaty, which then later in the coming months would be ready for a signature. Therefore I highly assess and evaluate what we have done here.
Well, of course there are questions which would require detailed discussion so that there would be no concerns on both sides. As to our concerns, they are - as regards strategic offensive arms and the preparation of the treaty on the 50 percent cuts of such weapons - they concern SLCM's - well, and in general we raised a question with the President that when we have advanced along different directions on the reduction of nuclear arms and conventional forces, when we move toward defensive doctrines - that is we, the Soviet Union - we are interested in having new elements in the military doctrines of the NATO countries. And, therefore, the time has come when we should begin discussing naval forces. We should discuss this problem also.
Thus, I would also like to confirm, and I think that the President would confirm it, that our discussions were very thorough, which encourages. And therefore we can count on success. This was a salute.
 
Reasons for Optimism
Q. Can I ask you a question --
Q. Mr. President, will you tell us - President Gorbachev, will you tell me why you were so cautious at the beginning of the negotiations? The Soviet side was very optimistic and now you voice certain optimistic elements. What is the reason for it? Maybe that optimism was not justified. This is the Portuguese television to President Gorbachev.
BUSH: Oh, to President Gorbachev. Go ahead.
GORBACHEV: Well, I would say that there were elements of optimism and pessimism here, and I wouldn't dwell into the details. Well, the core of the question is that, if I read you correctly, is that to what degree we can speak of optimism or pessimism regarding the results of this meeting. Or perhaps I didn't understand you correctly. Did I get you right?
Yes - well, you know, on the eve of the meeting, both sides were restrained and had a well-balanced position, a cautious one, I would say again. This did not mean, however, that we were pessimists. That meant that we were highly responsible. Today now that the meeting has taken place and we have summed up the results with - together with the President, I can tell you that I am optimistic about the results and the prospects that are open now. This is dialectics.
 
Cuts in Naval Forces
Q. May I return to the question of naval forces please, that President Gorbachev raised just a moment ago? Can you respond to your feeling and exactly what you've told President Gorbachev about your disposition toward reducing naval forces, NATO's disposition on that regard, and if in fact the Soviets are prepared to move to a defensive posture, is not it time to consider some cuts in this regard?
BUSH: The answer is that this is not an arms-control meeting in the sense of trying to hammer out details. We still have differences with the Soviet Union. He knows it and I know it, as it relates to naval forces. But the point is we could discuss these things in a very constructive environment and I certainly - the Chairman knows that I could not come here and make deals in arms control, and I'm disinclined to think that that is an area where we will have immediate progress. But we talked about a wide array of these issues, but we have no agreement at all on that particular question of naval arms control. But the point is, he knows that and I know that.
The point is, he had an opportunity to let me know how important it is, and I can - as a part of an alliance - have an opportunity to discuss a wide array of armament questions, disarmament questions, with our allies. So, it's exactly the kind of climate for a meeting that I had envisualized - that I had envisioned, and that he had envisioned. We can sit there and talk about issues of which we've had divisions over the years, try to find ways to narrow them. And we did narrow them in some important areas. And there are still some differences that exist. There's no point covering that over.
 
Helsinki Talks and the Mideast
Q. Did you discuss the Soviet proposal on Helsinki 2? And joining which - are you prepared to take a joint initiative with Soviet Union about the Middle East crisis?
BUSH: Is that to me?
Q. Yes --
GORBACHEV: With the President, we said that the Helsinki process should be developed, in keeping with the new demands dictated by the times, so as to conceive and build a new Europe on the basis of the changes, which brings the European countries closer together. We confirmed this a common business of all European states which signed the Final Act of Helsinki, and the Vatican.
Incidentally, the question of Europe arises not only in Europe, but with the active and constructive participation of the United States and Canada also. So we said that this process should gain momentum and get a second breath - a second wind. And transformation of the institutions which have arisen on the basis of the Helsinki process at this stage should proceed in such a way that their nature changes in the direction of the demands of the times. As regards the Warsaw Treaty, it shouldn't be so much a military alliance.
We're entitled to expect that there will be changes in the correlation between the European Common Market and the - our economic community and with the active participation in these processes of the United States. Our view is then, in any case, that the time has come in a balanced fashion, step by step, to take action in the light of the demands of the times, not by leaps and bounds or in an irresponsible reckless fashion in order to disrupt stability or reduce security. No, what we must do is to proceed in such a fashion as to improve the atmosphere, the situation, our relations, stability, and consolidate security. This was the dominant key of our discussion and I'm sure the President will confirm that we had a convergence of views on this.
Q. Did you assure President Bush - President Gorbachev, did you assure President Bush that you will not --
Q. Globo TV from Brazil, Mr. Gorbachev. Mr. Gorbachev - a question to Chairman Gorbachev from Globo TV, Brazil --
BUSH: The question - I think I owe this gentleman --
 
Forces in Mediterranean
Q. Here's a question on the Middle East. This meeting took place in the middle of the Mediterranean . . . At the meeting, did you discuss the problem of reducing the military presence of the sides or the parties in the Mediterranean?
BUSH: To me? Well, first on the reduction we did not have specific figures in mind. The Chairman raised the question of naval arms control and I was not particularly positive in responding on naval arms control. But we agree that we want to move forward and bring to completion the C.F.E., that does affect Italy and other countries in the sense of they're part of our - strong part of our NATO alliance. So we didn't get agreements crossing the t's, dotting the i's, on some of these issues. But that's not what we were trying to do.
May I respond to this gentleman's last half - the question was Soviet and U.S. - please repeat --
Q. Joint initiatives.
A. It doesn't require joint initiatives to solve the Middle East questions, but we have found that the Soviet Union is playing a constructive role in Lebanon and trying throughout the Middle East to give their support for the tripartite agreement, which clearly the U.S. has supported. And so there's common ground there. That may not always have been the case in history. And that may not always have been the way the United States looked at it as to whether - how constructive the role the Soviets might play.
But I can tell you that, after these discussions and after the discussions between Jim Baker and Shevardnadze, there is a constructive role that the Soviets are implementing. And again, I cite the tripartite agreement. I'm sure that they share our view after these talks in terms of peaceful resolution to these questions in the Middle East - be it Lebanon or on the - in West Bank question. So I don't think we're very far apart on this.
Q. President Gorbachev, did you assure President Bush that the Soviet Union will --
A. My views on the Middle East in terms of our discussion at this meeting, you mean? I can only add to what was said by President Bush that we did discuss this thoroughly, in fact just only very recently, very thoroughly. And it seems to me we do have an understanding between us that we must do our very best, independently and together, to promote a solution to this problem, a very long-standing conflict which is having a very adverse effect on the whole world situation.
We agreed that now the results of what the sides have done - we've reached a point, there's a real chance of taking a decisive step to open a process of a settlement. And what it's important to do is not to miss the opportunity to do that, because the situation changes very swiftly. And we think that we will make our contribution to that.
 
Status of Brezhnev Doctrine
Q. Did you assure President Bush that the changes in Eastern Europe are irreversible, that the Soviet Union has foresaken the right to intervene there militarily? And President Bush, similarly, as a result of this meeting, are you now more trusting that the Soviets have, indeed, renounced the Brezhnev Doctrine?
Q. A most important question from Czechoslovakia for Mr. Gorbachev. Will Soviets renounce the Brezhnev Doctrine which enabled the Soviets to invade Czechoslovakia in 1968?
A. I don't want to be understood as being authorized to speak on behalf of all Eastern European countries. This would not be in keeping with the facts. We are part of Eastern Europe certainly. We are part of Europe as a whole, too. And we work together with our allies in all areas. We have profound ties, but each country is an independent power, an independent factor in world politics. And each people has the right to decide, and does decide the fate of its own state.
All I can say is my view. And I think that these changes in the Soviet Union and the Eastern European countries, as an objective fact, have been caused by the actual historic process itself, and no one can avoid that. It's a problem whose time has come. We have to solve it by new means, using our experience and the potential which these states have accumulated, and also opening up opportunities for the use of everything that's been a positive accumulated in human experience.
And I think the orientation of these processes is something that we should welcome because it's connected with the desire of these peoples to ennoble their societies, to make them more democratic, humanitarian, to open up to the rest of the world. So I'm encouraged and inspired by all these processes, and I'm sure this is the way they are understood and appreciated by other peoples.
Of course, I also see that there are processes going on, profound processes of change in Western countries, too, including Western European countries. And this is very important, too. There's a kind of a movement bringing states, countries, and continents together. But nevertheless, there are processes where each individual country prefers its commitments, its choices, and its individualities. That's very important, and it's important for all of us to understand that.
Q. I'm speaking on behalf of a group of Czechoslovak --
BUSH: And as President Gorbachev talks about democratic change, and peaceful, that certainly lays to rest previous doctrines that may have had a different approach. And so we are - he knows, and not just the President, but all the people in the United States would like to see this peaceful, democratic evolution continue. And so I think that's the best way to answer the question, because the change is so dramatic and so obvious to people. But I will say we had a very good chance to discuss it in considerably more detail than I think would be appropriate to discuss it here.
 
Dispute on El Salvador
Q. President Bush, you have accused the Soviet Union for sending arms to El Salvador, to Central America, and President Gorbachev, you have denied those charges. Now both of you are sitting here together, who is right?
A. Maybe I ought to take the first shot at that one. I don't think we accused the Soviet Union of that. What we did say is arms were going in there in an unsatisfactory way. My view is that not only did the Nicaraguans acquiesce in it, but they encouraged in it - encouraged that to happen. And the evidence is demonstrable.
But I'm not challenging whether - the word of the Foreign Minister. He and Jim Baker talked about that, and President Gorbachev and I talked about it. All I know is that - and he said it earlier, elections - free elections is - should be the mode. And I also reported to him what Mr. Oscar Arias called me about, blaming Castro and the Sandinistas for exporting revolution and for just tearing things up there in Central America. So we may have a difference on that one, but I want to be careful when you say I accused them of sending these weapons. I did not, because Mr. Shevardnadze made a direct representation to Mr. Baker. And everyone knows that there's a wide international arms flow out there, but whatever it is, however it comes, it is unsatisfactory for countries in the region that want to see the evolution toward democracy continue.
GORBACHEV: The President has quite rightly reported our discussion on this. There was no accusation made against us and we didn't have to accept or reject such an accusation, therefore. We told the President that we have assurances - firm assurances from Nicaragua that no deliveries using certain aircraft actually were carried out. President Bush didn't agree with that and we heard that also. Nevertheless, from the point of view of the principle, I said, and President Bush confirmed this, that we're in favor of free elections. We want to see this conflict ended by political means, and we want to see a normalization of the situation there.
BUSH: That's what we agreed on. I agreed - I agree that that's where the --
Q. What about the accusations of Oscar Arias on Cuba?
BUSH: That, that's the assessment. I still feel that arms are going into El Salvador. We've seen clear evidence of it, and - but I can't argue with the factual presentation made here. But we have a difference. I don't believe that the Sandinistas have told the truth to our Soviet friends. And why? Because we know for a fact certain that arms have gone in there. I'm not saying they're Soviet arms. They've said they aren't shipping arms and I'm accepting that. But they're going in there and I am saying that they have misled Mr. Shevardnadze when they gave a specific representation that no arms were going from Nicaragua into El Salvador. And that's - so we have some differences in how we look at this key question. And the best way to have those differences ameliorated is to have these certifiably free elections in Nicaragua.
And Castro - I have no influence with him whatsoever. And maybe somebody is yelling that question at President Gorbachev. But look, we've got some differences in different places around the world.
 
Accusations Against Cuba
Q. President Gorbachev, what about the accusations of President Arias on - about Cuba? Oscar Arias apparently called President Bush and told him that Cuba really created the situation in the region. It was fomenting revolution in --
A. We discussed the situation in Latin America, expressed our views on the basis of our own analysis and our own assessment, said to the President that the conditions are ripe for changing the situation for the better. The different sides do have a wish to do this, to normalize the situation, not only in the region but also in the United States.
 
Changes in the Germanys
Q. How do you assess the German situation?
A. Do you want to begin on the German question?
BUSH: I'd be glad . . . Somebody better tell me what the question was then, if I'm going to answer. Was it the question of Germany? The United States, part of NATO, has had a longstanding position. Helsinki spells out permanent borders. We - I made clear to President Gorbachev that we, for our part, do not want to do anything that is unrealistic, and causes any country to end up going backwards, or end up having its own people in military conflict, one with the other.
And so, I think we have tried to act with the word that President Gorbachev has used to - and that is, with caution, not to go demonstrating on top of the Berlin wall to show how happy we are about the change. We are happy about the change. And the German question is - I've heard many leaders speak about the German question, and I don't think it is the role of the United States to - to dictate the rapidity of change in any country. It's a matter for the people to determine themselves. So that's our position, and the last word goes to the Chairman on this one.
GORBACHEV: Yes, on that as he ended, the President wrote in English and I don't read English. I answered him in Russian and he doesn't read Russian. But, we agreed.
BUSH: No matter what it said. . . .
GORBACHEV: I have several times expressed my views on this point, and because we discussed it with the President, we considered all these questions on the condition of the Helsinki process. We realize that the real situation in Europe, the current situation in Europe is that in modern Europe there are two German states, Federal Republic of Germany and German Democratic Republic.
Well, there are two German states in Europe today, the Federal Republic and the German Democratic Republic. They are members of the United Nations, sovereign states. This is the bidding of history, this is what history has willed. I always have recourse to this argument. So as to remain realistic, we must understand that history does dictate the fate and the processes on the continent, and also determines the role and place of these two states.
And we think that there is an understanding today in the minds of all. And any artificial attempt to do anything to that process -well, we mustn't do anything to belittle the great significance of the great changes which are happening in this continent. It's a central part of contemporary history. It would not be - we don't want to do anything to accelerate these changes artificially for the peoples of these two great German states.
Can we thank the press for its cooperation? Of course, we don't know what they've written yet, and what they will be writing.
BUSH: Reserve the right to thank them afterward, you mean? After they've written?
GORBACHEV: No. I think right now, and they will write better. I'd like to thank you for your cooperation.
BUSH: We do have to leave at 1:20. Should we each take one more question or not? Agreeable? All right, last one - last one for me right here. No rebuttal, no back up question. The last one.
 
Ties Between the Chiefs
Q. What's your personal relationship now between the two (inaudible) and would regular contacts that would perhaps no longer be called summits be helpful?
BUSH: I had known President Gorbachev before and I'll let him speak for himself, but I think we have a good personal relationship and I believe that helps each side be frank, point out the differences as well as the areas we agree on. And that is a very, very important ingredient, I think, because of the standing of the two powers and because of the dramatic change that is taking place. And I am not saying that if he likes me, he is going to change long-held policies, and I'm going to say if I like him, we're not going to change long-held policies.
But what we've been able to do here is to get together and talk about the differences without rancor and as frankly as possible. And I think it's been very constructive. So I couldn't have asked for a better result out of this non-summit summit. And the question is regular meetings? I'm open for - to see him as much as it requires to keep things moving forward. We've already set a summit meeting. That summit meeting will drive the arms-control agenda. And that's a good thing, because I represented to him that we wanted to see a Start agreement, a C.F.E. agreement, and hopefully a chemical agreement. That's a very ambitious agenda. But I think if we hadn't sat here and talked we might not have understood how each other feels on these important questions.
GORBACHEV: I'd like to confirm what's just been said by President Bush, that we've known each other for quite a long time now. I'd just like to add that perhaps - of course we didn't agree on this with the President, and I don't think I'm disclosing a great secret, that we've already had detailed discussions when we had our previous contacts, and we informed each other of each other's positions basically.
 
Pleased With the Discussions
At Governors Island or in the automobiles, we've had discussions, and we've had correspondence subsequently. And this meeting we've had here has made our personal contacts, placed them on a different level, and I'm very happy with the meeting we've had, the talks we've had, two talks one-on-one.
Like the President, I do feel that personal contact is a very important factor in relations between political leaders, particularly of such states as the Soviet Union and the United States. And I am committed to the idea of personal contacts. Although, as I said to the - as the President said correctly, this doesn't mean that for the sake of personal contacts, we can back away from our positions or can forget our responsibilities. No, it's just that personal contacts makes it possible for us the better to carry out our responsibilities and work together more effectively and more effective cooperation in the interest of our two peoples and in interests of the whole world community.
On my own behalf I'd like to thank you for this meeting. Thank you, Mr. President, for your cooperation for Soviet-American endeavors.
BUSH: Thank you, sir. Well, I guess we're going to fly away to Brussels.

GRAPHIC: Photo of President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev at the conclusion of the news conference they held after their talks. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NICARAGUA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); MALTA (90%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MALTA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMS RACE (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 



106 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: The Malta Summit;
New Spur for a New Journey Together

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VALLETTA, Malta, Dec. 3

 BODY:
George Bush finished one political journey today and started another.
 
Mr. Bush began his
Presidency seeming more skeptical than his predecessor, Ronald Reagan, of Mikhail S. Gorbachev and his ideas. But the meeting in September between the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d marked a turning point, and two days of meetings here apparently convinced Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev not only that they could trust each other but also that they needed each other to achieve their political goals.
So what their foreign ministers began amidst the scenic splendors of Wyoming in September was completed this weekend in the gales of Malta, as the leaders agreed to link their political fortunes in an effort to build a world free, as Mr. Gorbachev put it, from the ''psychological and ideological struggles'' of the last four decades. 
No formal agreements were reached here; there was not even a written joint statement, let alone anything as formal as a communique. But the summit conference generated a sense of momentum, an intangible but important dynamic element, that the Soviet-American relationship had heretofore lacked.
As he had promised before arriving, Mr. Bush took the Soviet leader to task for his nation's Central American policy. But at the joint news conference given by the two men in lieu of individual sessions, the American President vividly demonstrated how eager he is to make the new relationship work.
Mr. Gorbachev had denied sending arms to El Salvador, Mr. Bush noted, while the United States had hard evidence that Soviet arms were reaching the insurgent forces there. Other American Presidents might have left the matter there, with the implication that the Soviets were being less than candid. But Mr. Bush reached a completely different conclusion.
 
Benefit of the Doubt
The Sandinista Government in Nicaragua, the President said, must have shipped the Soviet weapons to El Salvador and then lied about their activities ''to our Soviet friends.''
Only at a time when the American attitudes are undergoing a profund change, with more and more Americans looking upon the Soviet Union not as an enemy but almost as the ally that it was during World War II, could Mr. Bush so clearly signal his willingness to give Mr. Gorbachev the benefit of the doubt. It will be more difficult now for his critics at home to accuse him of half-heartedness in his approach to the changes wrought by the Soviet leader.
The most important achievement here, one of Mr. Bush's advisers said, was to put ''a new political impetus, a new impetus of personal leadership,'' behind United States-Soviet relations. The clear feeling among White House staff members and senior Kremlin officials was that this, plus an accelerated timetable for two sets of arms-reduction talks, plus good chemistry between the two leaders, made success in their summit conference next year in the United States a probability, not merely a possibility.
 
For Gorbachev, Welcome Offers
''I couldn't have asked for a better result from this non-summit summit,'' President Bush said. For Mr. Gorbachev, the broad spectrum of economic assistance offered by his friend in the White House, from better access to the Western trading bloc to lower tariffs on Soviet products in the United States to (improbably enough) American help in setting up a Soviet stock market, could not have been more welcome as the Soviet Union begins a long, cold winter.
Most of all, a Soviet official said, Mr. Gorbachev was greatly relieved that Mr. Bush now seemed fully engaged in the relationship in a way that he had not been before, and seemed disposed to look for ways he could help the Soviet program of perestroika, or restructuring, toward success.
In the early months of the Bush Administration, some officials questioned whether Mr. Gorbachev was really a reformer and asked whether the White House should help him. Those in favor of Mr. Gorbachev argued that Ronald Reagan, in the last years of his Presidency, had become more trustful of Mr. Gorbachev.
 
Remaining Problems
The mood generated here may prove less transitory than earlier waves of good feeling generated by summit meetings, but there are still problems with regard to regional conflicts, as in Central America, and with regard to arms control, with both sea-launched cruise missiles and chemical weapons.
''Look, we've got some differences,'' President Bush acknowledged. Both leaders seemed eager to sidestep the German question, for an evident reason: any move by the two Germanys to amalgamate or confederate will tend to undercut the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or the Warsaw Pact or both, and Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev are counting on those two organizations, perhaps in changed form, to give them leverage in Europe.
Mr. Bush, furthermore, was at some pains to avoid giving offense to the Western Europeans - at least according to the accounts of his aides. He may have told Mr. Gorbachev of plans to cut United States troop strength in Europe; if so, he will presumably tell his allies in Brussels on Monday.
The plan to hold the conference on board Soviet and American warships, which was a White House idea, designed perhaps to generate public-relations echoes of the Roosevelt-Churchill talks during World War II off Newfoundland, didn't work out as planned, having failed to take into account the unpredictability of the weather. The meetings had to be shortened and moved to the cruise liner Maxim Gorky, docked nearby, because of mountainous seas.
Unlike Mr. Gorbachev, President Bush made no claim that the cold war was over, and unlike Mr. Reagan, he made only modest claims for the nature of his relationship with the Soviet leader.
''I don't think that he has me down as a total negativist'' said Mr. Bush of Mr. Gorbachev, ''and I certainly don't have him down as one.''
In the end, Mr. Bush proposed more here than his staff had indicated that he would, and Mr. Gorbachev proposed less than expected. But then, it was Mr. Bush's turn, since the Soviet leader has been springing suprises almost weekly in recent months, and Mr. Bush must have been dying to do something unexpected, given his almost obsessive delight in keeping secrets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MALTA (93%); NICARAGUA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MALTA

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ARMS TRADE (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); APPLE, R W JR RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



107 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: Strife Over Style and Substance Tests Princeton's Leader

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.

 BODY:
When Harold T. Shapiro left the University of Michigan two years ago to become president of Princeton University, he brought with him no small burden of expectations. An economist who, as president, had steered Michigan through a time of financial hardship, he arrived here after an unusually brief search and to a chorus of praises.
But soon professors grumbled that Mr. Shapiro was remote and bureaucratic, in contrast to his predecessor, the clubby and cozy William G. Bowen. Students found him unresponsive, and some demonstrated in front of his office to say so. A member of the class of '43 complained in the alumni magazine that he had sent three letters to Mr. Shapiro and received no answer.
Last spring, when the administration projected a $3.5 million deficit through 1993 in Princeton's $407 million annual budget, the mood on campus grew especially dark. At a meeting in May, the faculty registered a rare expression of unified displeasure, breaking into applause when the chairman of the English department, Emory B. Elliott, announced that he was leaving, in part because of concerns about the budget. 
''My very love of the place made the frustrations all the greater,'' Mr. Elliott, who now holds a Presidential Chair in English at the University of California at Riverside, said in an interview.
 
'Not Keeping Pace'
Much of the discontent has simmered down now, replaced by a sense that both the university and the president are trying harder. But the dispute over the budget drew attention to a question far larger than style: the strain faced by Princeton and other universities in paying for increasingly expensive academic and research programs.
''Those institutions that really care about leadership are going to have to become more focused in the coming years,'' Mr. Shapiro said in an interview, sitting in his office, near a pop-art painting of the Beatles and a framed letter written in 1784 by a president of Princeton, the Rev. John Witherspoon, lamenting the school's lack of money.
''The resource base is not keeping pace with the demands on it,'' Mr. Shapiro said.
In Princeton's case, Mr. Shapiro said, the university should not try to be everything. It should continue to support the areas it is strong in; the history and physics departments, for instance, are particularly well regarded.
But Princeton has no law or medical school, and Mr. Shapiro said that is the way it should be. ''There are some wonderful things in this world that are not done by Princeton.''
Mr. Shapiro said he is committed to Princeton's undergraduate education, which is becoming harder to maintain as professors increasingly turn their attention to specialized research.
One solution, he said, might be to have professors teach topics in their field but not within their specialty, so they could approach the subjects with fresh insight. But he added, ''No one's calling 800 numbers to ask my opinion on this topic.''
Many people here have come around to the view that the administration overplayed the seriousness of the budget issue last spring, and that Mr. Shapiro had simply not mastered the fine art of handling the Princeton community.
''There was a failure of salesmanship and communication to the students and faculty,'' said Alan S. Blinder, chairman of the economics department.
 
Time of Expansion
It is hard for some people to believe that Princeton, whose $2.7 billion endowment for its 6,200 students makes it richer per student than any other university in the country, can be in financial trouble.
It is harder still because Princeton recently raised $410 million in a fund drive, and because the mid-1980's were a time of expansion, when the endowment did better than ever, and money went to pay for new buildings. Administrators acknowledge that the problem, definitely, is not that Princeton is poor.
But income from the endowment fluctuates, and Princeton's trustees require the university to re-invest each year, as a guard against inflation, an amount from the income equal to at least 7 percent of the endowment's value.
Robert K. Durkee, the vice president for public affairs, said the university expects income of about 11 percent each year, which leaves an amount equal to only about 4 percent of the endowment to be spent each year.
In the 1980's, he said, there were some years when the overall return was significantly higher, and the university made a special allocation to use the extra income. But now, Mr. Durkee said, Princeton's advisers are warning that the university may not be able to sustain the 11 percent rate of return, and the university is concerned about the future.
 
Faculty to Grow
''We are terribly well-financed,'' said Mr. Shapiro. ''But we are not immune from choices.''
He said that the push toward specialization in professors' teaching and research, the increasing cost of scientific research and of academic materials from books to computers and the competition to keep the best professors and graduate students had all strained university budgets.
As a result of a budget review last year, the administration said, the size of the faculty is expected to continue to grow overall. But the equivalent of 10 faculty positions that are to become vacant this year will not be filled.
Princeton found more than $5 million in total savings over the next four years. About 80 percent of it will come from the administrative budget and 20 percent from academics.
This year, the faculty seems to be adjusting to the changes and to have mellowed about Mr. Shapiro. ''I think people have just had to adjust to a different style,'' said Cornel West, a religion professor and director of the Afro-American studies department.
''The students felt a bit isolated, and everyone felt a bit lonely and neglected,'' said Lawrence Stone, a history professor. ''Now, the whole style has changed, and the major adjustments have been made.''
 
More Time on Campus
In response to complaints that he is inaccessible, President Shapiro has begun to hold open-door office hours. After a period in which he traveled to 27 cities to meet alumni, he is on campus more.
But he still tends to delegate more responsibility to others than his predecessor did. ''There's nobody smart enough to know everything,'' Mr. Shapiro said.
''One of the interesting challenges is to try to bring fresh winds in when people are used to the old,'' he said. ''I've had to adjust to Princeton, so I can help the institution in the best way I can. Of course, the adjustment works both ways.''
Not everyone thinks all is well. Steve M. Slaby, an engineering professor known for being a consistent critic of the school administration, said he still feels the budget deficit was concocted to create alarm, so Mr. Shapiro could impose his agenda.
Mr. Slaby said he resents that Mr. Shapiro has to have office hours at all. ''As a faculty member, I consider that in some sense an insult,'' he said. ''I should be able to just call him and make an appointment.''
And some students say that while President Shapiro is making much more of an effort this year, they still find him unresponsive.
''The general feeling about Shapiro is that he's kind of ineffectual,'' said Ramona Freedman, a junior who is president of an anti-apartheid group. ''I don't think he's particularly well-liked.''
 
Draining Responsibilities
It is not easy being a university president; the job seems to require pleasing everyone at once. Students demand that the school do more than ever for their minds and their quality of life; parents complain about escalating costs; faculty members worry about keeping up with their research, maintaining their outside financing and teaching at the same time, and alumni must be wheedled into giving money.
''Many college presidents have enormous capability,'' said Thomas H. Wright Jr., Princeton's vice president and counsel. ''But they're sucked into an extraordinary set of responsibilities that drain away their energies.''
At Princeton, where the finely detailed old buildings and the blue-blood traditions contribute to a rarified atmosphere that can both embrace and exclude, it can be hard to come in as an outsider. It is especially hard when you bring in new policies that seem to challenge the old ways.
Mr. Shapiro is Princeton's first Jewish president and the first president in more than a century not to come directly from within the university. Though he earned his doctorate in economics at Princeton, he spent his undergraduate years at McGill University in Canada, his native country, and began his teaching career at Michigan.
 
'A Lot to Learn'
At Princeton, where there are 4,550 undergraduates but only 1,650 graduate students, an undergraduate degree bestows a sense of belonging that a graduate degree does not.
For Mr. Shapiro, being a relative outsider ''meant that he had a lot to learn and that he didn't have longstanding personal relationships to fall back on,'' Mr. Durkee said. This fall, Mr. Shapiro used the president's annual address to the freshman class as an opportunity to lay out some of his priorities for the coming years. He spoke of the need to promote scientific literacy among non-science majors and of the need to incorporate writing into many disciplines. He spoke of diversity and the need for listening to a wide chorus of voices.
''Our commonalities may not always be as evident as our differences, and our differences occasionally seem more threatening than enriching,'' Mr. Shapiro said.
As he articulates his vision, Mr. Shapiro is finding his style. He makes a point of reading a book by a Princeton professor every week. He attends professors' concerts and lectures.
''Bill Bowen had ways of connecting with people, through a constant flood of notes and phone calls,'' said Mr. Wright, the university counsel. ''But President Shapiro engages them in a different way and place, not through their in-box necessarily, but through their scholarly work.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Harold T. Shapiro (NYT/Frank C. Dougherty) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); 

CITY: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; RESEARCH UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); PAINTING (50%); 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH; SHAPIRO, HAROLD T



108 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Doormat Diplomacy

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
George Bush's purposes in proposing an early summit were (1) to shift the disarmament focus from strategic missiles to conventional forces, thereby placing top priority on an end of the Soviet occupation of Eastern Europe, and (2) to link the end of Soviet support of Central American dictatorships to trade concessions Moscow desperately seeks.
Mikhail Gorbachev's purposes in this meeting were the contrary: (1) to press for a quick Start treaty before agreeing to reduce the Red Army's huge advantage in tanks and troops in Europe, and (2) to de-link the Soviet Union's support of regional aggression from its solicitation of Western sources of money and technology.
Using those realistic criteria, the result of the Malta summit becomes clear: Mr. Bush failed miserably and Mr. Gorbachev succeeded brilliantly.
Approaching his summit debut, the new American President was afflicted by almost childlike desire to surprise the Great Surpriser. Consequently, he embarked on a two-month propaganda campaign to mislead the world: no formal agenda, he insisted; no real negotiations; just a feet-up get-acquainted session. 
Once aboard the Maxim Gorky, however, he whirled about and presented the Soviet leader with the detailed granting of Moscow's economic wish list.
Among these pre-emptive concessions were: observer status at the free world's top economic body before any reform of Soviet currency, a most-favored-nation deal to be signed next June (probably to hometown cheers in Houston); loans backed by American taxpayers through our Export-Import bank, which would have the effect of taking off the economic pressure for systemic change.
The Bush strategy was to win world approbation by giving Mr. Gorbachev everything before he had to ask. The delighted Soviet leader thanked Mr. Bush for his support of perestroika and his press spokesman declared ''the cold war is over.''
That was certainly new thinking in the negotiation business. When Mr. Gorbachev was then asked about the flow of Soviet arms through Cuba and Nicaragua to overthrow El Salvador, he reacted with the blandness of Gromyko on the subject of missiles in Cuba: not us. He could not imagine where the Communist insurgents got the AK-47 ammo or the Soviet surface-to-air missiles. Though he could turn off the violence in our hemisphere with a phone call, the Soviet leader reportedly spoke instead of Cuban ''self-determination.''
Despite this quid-pro-nothing, Secretary of State Baker gushed at the ''potential for real chemistry between these two leaders'' brought about by American concessioneering and Soviet stonewalling.
When Leslie Stahl of CBS - about the only interviewer in Malta to resist the spin-control pirouette - dared to ask what we got in return, Secretary Baker expostulated a mouthful of mush. What about a withdrawal of the half-million Soviet troops occupying Eastern Europe? ''We didn't get into discussions about lower troop levels,'' he replied.
If Mr. Bush did not press the Soviet leader to end the occupation, and if we did not link our generous offer of economic goodies to military restraint in the Soviet empire, then what was this particular summit for?
In succumbing to a misperceived need to seize the moment, President Bush let the moment seize him. As duly reported here last week, a Gorbachev diplomatic initiative to be announced during his papal meeting was expected; when the Soviet leader issued his call for a Helsinki II confabulation next year, the Bush desire to grab the next headline overcame his negotiating skill, and he threw caution to the Maltese winds.
The pullback and destruction of tanks and guns labeled ''C.F.E.'' -which we want - is now placed squarely behind, instead of in front of, the Start treaty, which the Soviets want. This is a windfall for Soviet negotiators.
We do not know what else was conceded or privately understood at Malta. The President's credibility was not helped by his pre-summit attempt to mislead his countrymen before his doormat diplomacy aboard the Gorky; trust is further eroded by the phony line that German reunification was not discussed.
Yes, he should ''seize the moment'' - by engaging in a serious, complex negotiation to extend the reach of freedom while reducing the threat of war, and not by being panicked into a world popularity contest with Mr. Popular.
The cold war will end not by declaration at summits. It will end only when the Soviet Union demonstrates its willingness to end the practice of imperialism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CUBA (90%); MALTA (88%); NICARAGUA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF INDIA (54%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN (54%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF KOREA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MALTA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SUMMIT CONFERENCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



109 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Onetime Abortion Foe Isn't So Sure Anymore

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DANVILLE, Ill., Nov. 30

 BODY:
In his first three years in the Illinois General Assembly, Representative William B. Black was counted a consistent enemy of abortion. When the issue came to the floor, he voted with abortion foes nine times out of 10.
But as the public debate has sharpened in the five months since the United States Supreme Court's ruling in a pivotal Missouri abortion case, Mr. Black, a 48-year-old Republican who is a former teacher, has found himself seized with growing doubt and ambivalence.
''There are a lot of Bill Blacks all across the country,'' said Kate Michelman, the executive director of the National Abortion Rights Action League. ''They are in Congress and they are in state legislatures. And they are responding to the new political landscape that has has evolved since Webster.'' 
That Supreme Court decision, Webster v. Reproductive Health Services, upheld Missouri's power to bar abortions at clinics and hospitals that receive public funds, and the power of states to impose new restrictions.
 
Flood of Mail on Both Sides
Mr. Black, whose small downtown office in this eastern Illinois community has been flooded with mail on both sides of the issue, said: ''In the past, my opposition to abortion was based on my own personal feelings. I just assumed that the final word, the ultimate wisdom, resided with the courts.''
Now the Supreme Court says state legislators should have a larger hand in shaping abortion policy. And in recent months scores of impassioned visitors have found their way to Mr. Black's office on Fairchild Street, sitting in the lobby beside the racks of pamphlets on state hunting and fishing regulations, waiting to tell him their side of the story: women who are unemployed and say they cannot afford to have more children; Catholic priests who regard abortion as murder; longtime acquaintances who warn that Mr. Black's vote on this issue might cost him their friendship.
''People ask me questions that I really don't know how to answer,'' he said. ''All I know for sure is that this is no black and white issue. There is a lot of gray, and sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night wondering what is right.''
His uneasiness is not unusual. While many lawmakers have not abandoned their long-held positions, others are wavering.
 
'It's in the Political Arena'
''What the Supreme Court said last summer was: Don't depend on us any longer. This decision is now in your hands. It's in the political arena,'' said Ms. Michelman. ''For politicians, the Supreme Court is no longer there as a safety net.''
Mr. Black is not the only politician in Illinois to reconsider his position. Last month, Attorney General Neil F. Hartigan, the leading Democratic gubernatorial contender, suddenly entered successful negotiations to settle a critical Illinois abortion case less than three weeks before it was to be argued before the Supreme Court.
It was Mr. Hartigan himself who had taken the case to the Supreme Court, seeking to affirm state regulations that imposed tough new restrictions on abortion clinics.
Nicholas Stojakovich, a lobbyist in Springfield for the Illinois Pro-Life Coalition, an anti-abortion organization, said both Mr. Hartigan and Mr. Black were typical of politicians whose views on abortion were shaped by political expediency.
 
'Either It's a Life or It Isn't'
''This is not an issue on which people waffle,'' said Mr. Stojakovich. ''Either it's a life or it isn't a life.''
Candidates who stand in the middle of the road will pay for it later, Mr. Stojakovich said, because they will be regarded as indecisive and unprincipled. ''To act out of political expediency on abortion is to show the coward's mentality,'' he said.
But Mr. Black, who won a narrow victory in 1986 and was re-elected without opposition in 1988, said he was not angling for political advantage.
''I know how hard my wife and I tried to have children,'' said Mr. Black, who has a son and daughter in college. ''But at the same time, I don't know what to say when people ask me what we are going to do to protect, nurture, feed and clothe all these unwanted children.''
Mr. Black traces his ambivalence to the Webster decision, which he said had given new weight and effect to his votes on abortion. In past years, he and his colleagues would routinely pass legislation restricting abortion, only to have the bills ruled unconstitutional by the courts.
 
'Common Sense' Restrictions
On the one hand, Mr. Black said he now believes he could never vote to outlaw abortion entirely. ''I have just decided that whether we like it or not, during the first few weeks anyhow, abortion is a medical procedure between a woman, her doctor and her God,'' he said.
On the other hand, he supports restrictions on abortion that make ''common sense,'' like requiring minors seeking abortions to have their parents' consent. And he wants tough regulations to govern the operations of abortion clinics.
Abortion is not a make-or-break issue in his district, he said. Among the farms and small towns of Vermilion and Edgar Counties, there is more mail, and sharper debate, over issues like gun control, mandatory seat-belt laws and taxes on gasoline and cigarettes.
But Evelyn Ring, the head of an anti-abortion group in Paris, a small town 35 miles south of Danville, said Mr. Black was heading for trouble on abortion. ''He was almost 100 percent with us, and now he has switched,'' she said. ''It just make you wonder about him altogether. What does he really stand for?''
Such talk pains Mr. Black, who has lived in this town of 35,000 people all his life and knows many of his constitutents by name. ''My colleagues in Springfield tell me: Don't equivocate. Jump on one pedestal or the other and stay there,'' he said. ''Well, I can't do that.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of State Representative William B. Black of Illinois, who has been besieged by voters on both sides of the abortion debate since the Supreme Court allowed states more control over abortion laws. (NYT/Ernest Coleman-

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WEBSTER V REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH SERVICES (1989 SUP CT DECISION)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (57%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ILLINOIS

SUBJECT: ABORTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION SUPREME COURTS (91%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ABORTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); APPEALS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (63%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (63%); FISHERIES (63%); RELIGION (62%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (53%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: BLACK, WILLIAM B (REPR); SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E



110 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Filling Medicare Gaps: Debate Grows

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
A proposal to protect the elderly and disabled from unscrupulous sellers of health insurance has been gaining support in Congress since the recent repeal of the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act. But it is encountering stiff resistance from the insurance industry, which says that it would deny Medicare recipients access to health benefits they need.
The proposal, by Representative Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, would tighten Federal restrictions on the sale of Medigap policies, which fill in gaps in Medicare coverage - for example, by paying the first day's hospital bill, which Medicare does not cover. In his measure, which he introduced this year and hopes to attach to the next financial bill that comes before the House, Mr. Wyden seeks to end the illegal but widespread practice of selling Medigap policies for the same coverage a customer already has. 
His measure would also crack down on the sale of policies that pay a fixed amount each day if the policyholder comes down with a given illness, like heart disease or colon cancer. Under the Wyden plan, a customer could buy only one such policy.
 
A Losing Gamble, Critics Say
These indemnity policies are highly profitable for the industry. But like other critics, Mr. Wyden says they are a gamble the customer generally loses. In a 1988 study, the General Accounting Office, the Congressional research agency, said the policies ''provide narrow coverage, pay fixed dollar benefit levels without protection against inflation, are conditioned on confinement in a hospital or contracting the specified disease, and return on average less than 60 cents of a premium dollar as benefits.''
The industry's chief trade organization, the Health Insurance Association of America, emphatically rejects Mr. Wyden's proposal. Now that Congress has repealed the act that protected elderly and disabled Americans from devastating medical bills, the group says, they need the benefits such policies can provide.
''At a time when the financing of health care for the elderly is in a state of confusion and seniors are anxiously re-evaluating their health insurance,'' the association said in a letter to Mr. Wyden, ''we urge you not to unduly restrict their access to a range of private solutions to their health care needs.'' It warned that the Wyden measure would ''require radical changes in many kinds of policies other than Medicare supplements, creating confusion among the senior population.''
 
Millions of Duplicate Policies
In another letter to Mr. Wyden, Consumers Union, a leading consumer advocacy group, called indemnity policies ''a terrible buy'' that ''should be banned outright.'' The group said that it was appalled that insurers were seeking ''freedom to write unnecessary coverage in the wake of excessive consumer confusion about catastrophic benefits, Medicare and the private insurance market.''
Although Federal law prohibits selling policies to Medicare recipients that duplicate health coverage already in effect, insurers have sold millions of them, saying they were unaware of the duplication. Mr. Wyden's proposal would go beyond present law by requiring sellers to ask prospective clients what other policies they have and to make a good-faith effort to avoid selling duplicate coverage.
The insurance association estimates that supplemental insurance is held by more than 25 million people, or 78 percent of the 30 million elderly and 3 million disabled beneficiaries of Medicare. Experts say the premiums for these policies will rise sharply now that the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act has been repealed.
Medigap policies usually pay for the first day of hospitalization, which now costs $560 and will increase to $592 on Jan. 1, and for all or part of the costs of doctor care that Medicare patients must pay. The Medicare program pays 80 percent of the costs it considers customary and reasonable, and the beneficiary the remaining 20 percent.
In a 1987 study, the insurance association found that 5.6 million people, or 25 percent of the holders of supplemental policies, had more than one. More than a million did not know how many policies they had. The organization acknowledged that ''in most cases Medicare beneficiaries do not need more than one Medicare supplement policy.''
In an interview, Mr. Wyden went further. ''Any way you slice it,'' he said, ''millions of people are purchasing coverage that they already have, and therefore don't need.''
Noting that many insurance companies have applied to state regulators for sharp increases in Medigap premiums since the repeal vote, he added, ''Early next year there's going to be as much heat on the Medigap coverage as anyone ever saw.''

GRAPHIC: A photo of Representative Ron Wyden (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; AGED; HANDICAPPED; MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION MEDICARE (93%); ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELDER LAW (89%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); AGING (73%); CANCER (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); HEART DISEASE (67%); COLORECTAL CANCER (52%); 

PERSON: WYDEN, RON (REPR) RON WYDEN (91%); 



111 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Richard W. Welch, 69, A Top Boeing Executive

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Richard W. Welch, who rose from accounting clerk to president of the Boeing Company's commercial aircraft division, died last Tuesday of a neurological disease. He was 69 years old. 
He was born in Baraboo, Wis., and moved with his parents to Bellevue, Wash. He served in the Army field artillery in World War II, and after discharge he earned a degree in economics from the University of Washington.
He was hired by Boeing as an accounting clerk in 1949. He was promoted to chief of material and property accounting in 1954 and vice president for finance and contracts in 1968.
Mr. Welch was later named executive vice president of Boeing's largest division, now known as Boeing Commercial Airplanes, and served as president from 1981 until his retirement in 1985. In his last year he also served as a senior vice president of the Boeing Company.
Survivors include his wife, Nancy; a sister; three sons and a daughter; and five grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (98%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (57%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (88%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); 

PERSON: WELCH, RICHARD W



112 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
Bush's Approval Is High But Not Deep, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3

 BODY:
In a capital consumed with polling, the most closely watched number of all, the political equivalent of the Dow Jones industrial average, is the Presidential approval rating.
In a divided Government, with Democrats dug in on Capitol Hill launching periodic strikes against a Republican White House, the rating has a lot to do with how far the President is pushed. George Bush has been blessed with good numbers since he took office, a fact that has troubled, perplexed and sometimes downright exasperated Democrats, who will recite, with the least encouragement, a list of reasons why it should not be so.
Mr. Bush's popularity remains high in the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. But as he returns from Malta and the summit meeting with Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the kind of duties for which Americans give him high marks, a few clouds dot the skies back home. 
First the good news for the White House, from a telephone survey of 1,297 adults conducted Nov. 26 through Nov. 28: Sixty-three percent of Americans said they approved of the President's performance in office, down slightly from the 70 percent approval he received in September but still a formidable showing. Ronald Reagan, who left office with a heroic glow in the polls, received a 53 percent approval rating at about the same point in his Administration, in a September 1981 survey.
Mr. Bush still has what his campaign strategists called a firewall in the South; his rating is highest there, at 69 percent. Furthermore, he is remarkably strong among 18-to-29-year-olds, 70 percent of whom applaud his performance.
For all the attempts by Congressional Democrats to hammer Mr. Bush on foreign policy, all the speeches about ''timidity'' and the jabs at his response to the upheaval in Eastern Europe, the President gets a very high 77 percent approval of his dealings with the Soviet Union. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
''Democrats by and large just don't have a lot of credibility on foreign policy, and particularly against someone like George Bush, who has great credibility on foreign policy,'' argued Eddie Mahe, a Republican consultant.
But away from the tumbling walls in Eastern Europe and the momentous change in East-West relations, the stuff of Presidential leadership, Mr. Bush is more vulnerable. When it comes to hometown concerns, like drugs and the economy, Americans voice more discontentment.
The poll found that 47 percent said they approved of Mr. Bush's handling of the economy, while 41 percent said they did not. That was the highest level of disapproval he has received this year on that issue, up significantly from the 32 percent who disapproved of his economic performance in a September survey. The disapproval rose among both blacks and whites, and across all age groups.
Most dissatisfied were people over 64 years old - perhaps not surprising, given the higher level of economic anxiety often registered in that group - and among the baby-boom generation. Forty-six percent of those in the 30-to-44 age group disapproved of Mr. Bush's handling of the economy, while 43 percent approved of it.
The baby boomers were roughly in line with all adults in their critical assessment of Mr. Bush's handling of the abortion issue: Over all 41 percent of adults disapproved his handling and 37 percent approved.
Mr. Bush's performance in the war against drugs also drew lukewarm responses. In September, amid a wave of hoopla about the President's anti-drug program, 69 percent approved of his handling of the drug problem. In the new poll, 48 percent did, while 43 percent did not.
Such problems may, indeed, seem intractable and largely overshadowed by the world scene these days. And Mr. Bush flies home with his approval rating no doubt fortified by the events in Malta. But ''behind the curtain'' of general approbation, notes Peter Hart, the Democratic poll-taker, ''are some less than perfect ratings.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (68%); MALTA (56%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); APPROVALS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



113 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2605 words

HEADLINE: The Malta Summit;
Transcript of the Bush-Gorbachev News Conference in Malta

DATELINE: VALLETTA, Malta, Dec. 3

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's news conference today, the opening minute of which was not recorded. Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, also responded to questions during the session. The transcript was provided to The New York Times by the Federal News Service.
 
A Better Understanding
A. . . . All the problems that have existed over the years between Western Europe and the rest of the NATO allies and Eastern Europe. But I understand better where he's coming from, and that, I think, is very important. And he understands our priorities. He understands the concerns, for example, that I feel about Central America, because we really had a good, frank discussion.
 
NATO and the Cold War
Q. But if I can follow up on this goal, as I say, you set for yourself, at least toward movings towards an end to the cold war. He said an epic has ended. How do you feel about that? 
A. I think this is a major step towards understanding and towards any - in trying to tear down any remaining barriers that shot up because of the cold war. There's no question that the conditions today are far different than at the depths of the cold war. No question about it. I haven't even heard anybody argue to the contrary.
Q. Mr. President, what do you think of NATO and Warsaw Pact evolving to political organizations and really moving out of a military mode?
A. Well, if we make the progress that I hope we'll make on various arms-control items and if tensions continue to go down, as they have, inside the Soviet Union and in terms of relations with the United States and Eastern Europe, who knows where the change will take us. But obviously, I have a certain responsibility for keeping NATO strong, and nothing here has altered that desire. But as you see the historical changes taking place, I think it's fine to envision a group of countries that spend a lot more time worrying about the economic side and less on the defense side. We are not there yet. We are not there.
Q. What are you going to tell --
Q. Mr. President --
Q. The NATO -- what are you going to tell the NATO leaders?
A. This is a follow up.
Q. What will you tell the NATO leaders?
A. Well, I'll wait until I get there to decide that. I'll give them a pretty good report on what went on in considerable detail - not all necessarily, because some relates to the U.S.-Soviet equation. But we'll have a good, frank discussion, and I think they will be pleased at what the results of the meeting are.
 
Tenor of the Talks
Q. Mr. President, other than the weather, were there any disappointments? You seem to still be at odds, very much so, on Central America. And was there anything Mr. Gorbachev told you that especially surprised or pleased you?
A. No, no surprises. And, I - but as I say, Michael, we cannot in, you know, 10 hours of discussion or whatever it is, solve all the problems that exist between the United States and the Soviet Union, and the way we look at different areas. But, it's - it would be euphorically optimistic to think that a meeting like this would solve all those problems. But it's better, we understand more. I've got some areas where I can now go back to him, various areas. But there were no surprises. It was a wide discussion - I'm not sure we left out any subjects in a geopolitical sense, but we covered a lot of them.
Q. How long --
Q. Disappointments - no specific disappointments? Something you wish he was more forthcoming on?
A. No particular disappointments, no.
Q. Mr. President --
A. Because I think the - I think the goal now is to go forward, as we have wanted to anyway, and demonstrate everybody's commitment to C.F.E. talks, everybody's commitment to chemical-weapons reductions, eventual elimination, and of course, the Start agenda.
 
Gauging Gorbachev
Q. Do you think that the --
Q. Mr. President, you talked about --
A. I'll be over, Terry.
Q. . . . now having a better understanding of Mr. Gorbachev after this meeting. Could you tell us what you know about him today, or understand about him today --
A. Well, I know that he's perfectly willing to have very frank discussions, even if I'm on the opposite side of a question from him. There was no anger, there was no vitriol. It was a very constructive set of meetings in that regard.
And so, I saw a man who is confident. I saw a man who was calm in our - in his presentations, and responded as factually as he could in some of the questions I raised. And so, I am convinced that the concept of getting together for a no-agenda meeting was very, very sound.
 
U.S.-Soviet Relations
Q. Do you think that the United States and the Soviet Union now are dealing with each other more as allies than adversaries?
A. I wouldn't say allies, but with far less misunderstanding, and with far more common goals.
Q. What do you think of the adversarial relationship, of the nature of the relationship now?
A. Well, I say - as I say I think it's vastly improved, tensions reduced - not eliminated but reduced. We still have different ways of looking at certain questions, and - but I think the answer is improved. Terry?
 
Flight 103 and Terrorism
Q. Mr. President, relatives of Pan Am 103 bombing were going to have a ceremony in the harbor today, drop flowers into the harbor as part of their attempt to have both you and Mr. Gorbachev work together in fighting international terrorism. Did this come up -
A. Yes.
Q. Specifically this weekend? Did you talk a little bit about it?
A. Not 103 per se, but you're talking about anti-international terror. Yes, it did, and also in the anti-narcotics efforts. So there's more we can do. We didn't discuss it specifically, but I'm thinking about certain kinds of intelligence interchange that can prove to be beneficial.
Q. What was the conversation he was referring to on Governors Island in the car?
Q. In the car.
A. No, no. The car was in Washington. You remember when we rode from the embassy over to -- (inaudible)
. . . perestroika failed, and that it wasn't going to fail, and it is irreversible. And I told him back then that I didn't think there were any serious elements in the United States that wanted to see perestroika fail. So that's probably what he was alluding to. I missed that part of it.
 
Soviet Role in Cuba
Q. Secretary Baker, before he came out here a couple weeks ago, said that the Soviet role in Cuba and Central America was the primary obstacle to a more beneficial full-scale relationship between the two countries. You agree - now you disagreed here, but did you advance the issue at all? Can you say -
A. I don't know we advanced it, but I was very, very clear in telling him how strongly I feel about that, and it did build on what Jim Baker had talked to Shevardnadze about out in Wyoming. So there is no doubt in their minds that their assistance to Cuba and their lip service for the Sandinistas give us a considerable amount of difference with them. I mean, so it's very clear - well, until we see a free Cuba, self-determination and the people deciding what they want, Cuba will stick out until that date, as a tiny country, but swimming against Mr. Gorbachev's own tide. And I made that point to him, and --
Q. How did he respond to that?
A. Well, I'll let you ask him first chance you get.
 
Arms Control
Q. Can I ask you a question on arms control? Did I understand President Gorbachev to say that you hope to have a framework agreement in late June, but not an actual Start Treaty?
A. I think we should shoot for a Start Treaty. I'm advised by some of the pros that that's complicated. But look, I think we ought to go forward and try to get a Start agreement. And I think there - I think most everybody would like to see that happen. I don't see any resistance to it, but we've got some technical problems involved, that - let the experts discuss, not me.
So I don't - if he said that there wouldn't be - I mean, if the implication that you got was there won't be a Start Treaty in the summer of '90, I didn't get that feeling from him. Now --
Q. So that you still think it's entirely possible or --
A. I think it's possible, but we have to drive the system.
Q. Is it likely?
A. I - it's hard to, hard to quantify my feeling on that one. But I don't - I really don't see a reason why it can't happen.
 
'Star Wars'
Q. What about S.D.I. in that context? Did you talk about S.D.I.?
A. Just a wide array, you can just be sure that defensive was talked about as well as offensive, as rockets as well as people. It was a wide, wide array of discussion on that general - yeah.
 
Troop Reductions
Q. Was the procedure for troop cuts beyond C.F.E.-1 discussed?.
A. Yes, he is very much interested in seeing troop cuts beyond C.F.E. He knows I'm part of an alliance and not going to go off on some unilateral tack on that. But I think in fairness to the man, he did - he did raise that. But I think we both agree that the immediate goal is to push the system on both sides so we can get a C.F.E. agreement. And back to Terry's question, I think that's entirely possible. It should be, and we're going to - I'm going to be driving our bureaucracy and discussing it at NATO, because I think it's a very important step.
 
Military Budget Cuts
Q. Well, in that respect are you going to cut the defense budget?
A. Not in that respect.
Q. Well --
A. We've already cut the defense budget.
Q. (inaudible) . . . Cheney certainly has been talking a lot about --
A. Listen, he's doing exactly what I want him to do - go back and question and see how things can be restructured. And if there is a way to prudently save money and not weaken the common defense of NATO or not weaken the defense - the ability of the United States to protect our friends around the world, fine. That would be acceptable to me. But we're simply not going to go out there and make draconian cuts in defense so I can solve this Gramm-Rudman problem.
 
The Kremlin and War
Q. Well do you believe him when he says he won't start a hot war?
A. I - I think he has no intention of starting a hot war. You mean - where he said - attacking the United States' interests?
Q. Well --
A. What - how did he phrase it? It was something like that.
Q. A hot war against the United States.
A. Yeah, - I have no - I have no evidence that there is anything other than the truth in that statement.
Q. May I ask --
FITZWATER: We're going to have to go. We'll give Frank a final one here --
Q. Just some person thoughts, coming here after all the preparation and some criticism of being --
BUSH: Yeah --
Q. (inaudible) . . . too timid or --
A. Wasn't that interesting - let me interrupt once to editorialize - wasn't it interesting the way he used the word caution, and I didn't put him up to it either. But go ahead.
FITZWATER: He said prudent at one time, too.
BUSH: Go ahead.
 
Meeting's Personal Side
Q. What was it - what was it like for you, what did it feel like sitting across from this man and in many ways discussing the shape of a world that cannot -- (inaudible)
A. Well inasmuch as I'd met him before and had a couple of private conversations with him before, it was probably less formidable than if I'd never, never met him. And given the changes that he's advocating in terms of, you know, self-determination and an Eastern Europe changing without any threat of force from them, the climate was easier because of those things.
But there still was, you know, a recognition on my part, one, that this was serious business, and two, that we have got to find ways to work for peace constructively. And sitting across the table from me was a person that can have as much to say about that as any other individual in the world, given the superpower defense status of both countries.
So there was a feeling of - there was a recognition that this was important, and yet the climate in the meeting - the climate in the meetings was without rancor and without hostility. I remember a time when I first met Mr. Gorbachev and we talked about human rights and he became visibly agitated with me for raising it.
And I think there's been a great evolution in his thinking on that question, and certainly in his relations with the United States, just as there has been an evolution on my thinking. You may remember I was the one who was against the very kind of meeting that I decided was necessary, because I think as these changes take place, this kind of meeting can be helpful.
So it was - the emotional part of it, Frank, is hard to describe for me because I'm not the most articulate emotionalist. But I just can't have asked for a better ambiance, a better feel from the meetings, even though the differences are acute in some areas.
 
The Emotional Side
But you get the feeling he really wants to work with us, and he knows that I'm cautious, and you heard him talk and use the word prudent. I'm sure that was deliberate on his part. I do think this, that six months ago, there was probably a misunderstanding on his part about the intentions of this new President.
And I think one of the good things is, I don't think he has any feeling that I'm going to be unforthcoming in situations where I should be. I don't think he has me down as a total negativist at all. And I certainly don't have him down and as I see the reception he gets in Italy, I can talk to him about why that emotional response, his identity with change.
So, back to the personal side, the events helped. His own personality helped. I'd like to think he thought I knew what I was talking about. And so we have a good exchange without having to go to the experts or go to the notebooks and it worked. And now we've got to move - now we've got to move forward and I think we can in a lot of ways. I think we can on the economic front. I'm convinced we can and must on the arms-control front.
 
Bush's Report to the U.S.
Q. You go before NATO tomorrow. How are you going to report to the American people --
A. I don't know whether we're having a -we may well have a press conference when we get back.
FITZWATER: At an unspecified time.
BUSH: That's the best way to do it.
Q. (inaudible)
A. You mean a speech? Well, I just did one just before going and I don't want to --
Q. (inaudible) . . . press conference is good.
A. (inaudible) . . . abuse the, you know, the hospitality of the air waves. But I think we can get the message out by responding to questions.
Q. Thank you.
 
On the President's Temper
Q. Did you ever lose your temper?
A. No.
Q. You said that he had no rancor himself.
A. No, I don't lose my temper.
Q. Lies.
A. I don't - I don't --
Q. You get to see you a lot.
A. I keep it all inside. No, no that's where I think your reporting has been a little off. What was that they got on Marlin about saying, he hit the ceiling - what was it - a few months back, which is untrue.
Q. (inaudible)
A. No, but I don't have to. I'm matured. And the answer is, don't worry about things you can't do anything about. That's a little advice I got from the doctor in 1960 and it works. So why blow up at Helen if she asks a question I don't like, or this one over here?
Q. I've seen you go up in smoke --
FITZWATER: This is getting into a difficult area --
A. BUSH: If occasionally I do go up in smoke, it doesn't relate to this line of work. It's other things.
FITZWATER: You'll take this to the filing center, right, so they can make a transcript?
BUSH: We'll see you guys. See you on the plane.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Pres. Bush leaving the cruiser Balknap (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); MALTA (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MALTA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA TRANSCRIPTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); POLITICS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



114 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Chrysler Loses Industry Rhythm

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
''THERE are rhythms in the auto industry, and Chrysler is out of sync with them today,'' says Raymond Vernon, a Harvard Business School professor. The current rhythm rewards the General Motors Corporation and the Ford Motor Company because they have big operations in Europe, where profits are easier to come by than in the United States. The Chrysler Corporation's European sales are minuscule, and that shortcoming endangers the company.
Chrysler executives are turning somersaults trying to correct the situation. Their strategy is to export mini-vans and jeeps, Chrysler's most popular vehicles, and supplement exports with limited manufacturing abroad soon. ''We consider it absolutely critical to be established in Europe in a meaningful way,'' said Michael N. Hammes, vice president for international operations. 
Chrysler once had European factories but sold them in the late 1970's, concentrating sales ever since in the United States and Canada. Now Chrysler has become a grand test of whether an American car maker can prosper without a large European-based operation.
G.M. and Ford each sell more than 1.2 million vehicles in the European Community, all manufactured there, and representing 24 percent of total European sales. Chrysler, by contrast will export 50,000 units to Europe this year, up from zero in 1987. And even under the best of conditions, sales in Europe will probably not exceed 200,000 jeeps, mini-vans and cars during the next three years, Mr. Hammes said.
Such limited sales handicap Chrysler, the reason being Professor Vernon's rhythms. New auto plants, mostly Japanese-financed, are proliferating in the United States just as the economy and auto sales are weakening. The upshot is too much supply, and in the competition for domestic sales, prices are being driven down, along with profits. Most of Europe, on the other hand, is thriving, and Europeans are buying almost as many vehicles as Americans. What's more, demand is outrunning supply, bolstering prices. That's partly because protectionist rules limit Japan's access to Europe.
The European advantage showed up in G.M.'s and Ford's third-quarter earnings. Both companies lost money on their North American operations, but handsome European profits more than offset the losses. Chrysler also lost money in North America, and only a one-time windfall kept the company in the black: the sale of half its stake in the Mitsubishi Motors Corporation for $309 million.
Ask auto industry experts - and Chrysler executives - what the company must do to survive through the 1990's, and they cite two requirements, both involving Europe indirectly.
One is to develop models that will be popular in the 1990's, a costly process. ''We need enough revenue from Europe so that we don't have to cut back on product development,'' W. Van Bussman, a Chrysler economist, said. ''It's an insurance policy.''
The other requirement is to sell enough American-made cars, here and in Europe, so that Chrysler can increase production at its North American factories, now operating below capacity. The more the plants produce, the lower the cost of each vehicle. A few years ago, Chrysler had brought unit costs down very low, and was often able to underprice G.M. and Ford and still make a profit. But Chrysler lost the advantage after purchasing American Motors, with its less efficient factories.
Chrysler should be able to squeeze 300,000 more vehicles a year from its American and Canadian plants, said John Hammond of J. D. Power & Associates, a consulting firm. But to sell that many more cars, exports to Europe will have to be stepped up, he added.
Mr. Hammes of Chrysler agrees. He says the full-capacity goal can be achieved if 75,000 cars and trucks can be exported annually to Europe, along with American-made axles and engines. These will go into a small new jeep to be made at a factory in Spain or Portugal. Chrysler and Renault will own the operation jointly, turning out nearly 100,000 of the jeeps by the mid-1990's.
But a strategy that relies so heavily on exports carries with it a guaranteed ceiling on European sales, Mr. Hammes said. ''To have most of our costs in dollars and then to sell in European currencies is too great a risk,'' he said. If the dollar were to rise sharply in value, Chrysler might have to raise prices abroad, losing sales. A safe export limit is fewer than 100,000 vehicles, he said.
The ideal alternative would be for Chrysler to have factories in Europe, mimicking G.M. and Ford. In Chrysler's case, that is not possible; the company simply lacks the capital to acquire them.
Instead, Chrysler is limited, well into the 1990's, to exports and joint ventures, first with Renault and soon with another European partner, to make perhaps 50,000 mini-vans, Mr. Hammes said.
The policy adds up to small potatoes in European sales. Alone among the Big Three, Chrysler is forced to stake its survival on the American market, a policy that bets heavily on Professor Vernon's auto industry rhythms. From Chrysler's viewpoint, the next rhythm must make American sales more profitable than those in Europe.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); 7211 (TSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (62%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MINIVANS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS



115 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: New Medicare Proposal Targets Elderly

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The E.T. Answer to Doctor Bills'' (editorial, Oct. 27) fails to identify the real risk associated with expenditure targets, or E.T.'s, an attempt by Congress to ration national health care benefits under Medicare. Since most Medicare beneficiaries are the elderly, expenditure targets are a program to limit health care for the elderly and deserves to be opposed.
There is little doubt that we have a problem with growing health care costs and escalating cumulative Medicare payments to doctors. To focus attempts at correction, it is important to understand the causes:
* Population growth: As the population grows, doctors are called upon to take care of greater numbers of patients. More doctors provide more units of service, thereby generating a larger total bill. 
* An aging population: Medical successes have extended life expectancy. We have more older people in the population. Older people get sick more often and require more medical care. Doctors are called on more often and provide more units of serv-ice for patients of an advanced age.
* Advancing technology: With each year, new treatments are based on improved and more expensive technology, which requires more highly trained personnel to operate. Improved technical training translates into higher personnel payments. Technically skilled physicians command higher fees.
* Inflation: Inflation is an inexorable fact of life and contributes significantly to Medicare expenditure escalation. In most cases, increases in the personal income of physicians have merely reflected changes in the purchasing power of the dollar. Medicare payments to doctors do not translate directly into physician income. The costs of practice, especially the costs of malpractice insurance, have escalated. Also, an indeterminate proportion of the cost of medical care reflects defensive medicine, in which a doctor performs procedures, not because he thinks the patient needs them, but to protect himself in case of lawsuit.
The escalating costs of medical care reflect the successes of modern American medicine. A proper approach to limiting the costs of medical care should focus on the causes. Reduction of the costs of malpractice insurance and reduction of the costs of defensive medicine would provide savings without limiting services for those who need them. It is estimated that in these two areas as much as 15 percent of total physician payments might be saved.
Society has hard decisions to make. Do we ration health care to the elderly? Do we limit use of modern technology? Do we bite the bullet on inflation, at the cost of economic growth? Decisions must be evenhanded so that we don't discriminate against any segment of the population. The aged have made their contribution to our society and now deserve our support.
 
EDWARD A. BRUNNER, M.D.
James E. Eckenhoff Professor
Northwestern U. Medical School
 Chicago, Nov. 3, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED; MEDICARE MEDICARE (93%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); AGING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE RATIONING (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); AGING TRENDS (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); LITIGATION (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 



116 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Kemp Homeless Plan Offers Too Little

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Mr. Kemp Faces Up to the Homeless'' (editorial, Nov. 15) could not be further from the mark. Yes, Jack Kemp, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and the Bush Administration have proposed a package for single room occupancy that might provide funds for a small fraction of the homeless mentally ill. But $243 million a year spread over the country is a drop in the bucket. 
All the homeless are not mentally ill. Hundreds of thousands in the country are without a decent place to live. Many are part of the structurally unemployed, who have been out of work so long that they are no longer counted. Others have been forced out of rent-controlled, S.R.O. or stabilized apartments in buildings torn down to make way for more luxury housing. Still others are alcoholics or drug addicts who live on the fringe of society. Has Mr. Kemp looked at New York's streets, parks and public transportation system?
The Federal Government must get back into the housing business. Mr. Kemp talks about ''incentivizing'' the private sector to build housing. How much more homelessness will we have to endure before we see that the private sector is not interested in building low- and moderate-income housing - unless developers can realize profits as usual? How many more housing scandals will shock us before we realize that the private sector wants to build more profitable housing for the well-heeled, especially when it is subsidized?
A national program spending $243 million a year for three years will do little to solve the dismal problem of the homeless mentally ill, and almost nothing about the overwhelming homeless problem in our cities. This is not ''a welcome sign of Washington's willingness to help American cities.'' We must see Washington roll up its collective sleeves and start to build housing.
 
RICHARD C. SACHS
New York, Nov. 15, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF

SUBJECT: FEDERAL AID (US) HOMELESSNESS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RENT CONTROL (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); 

PERSON: KEMP, JACK F (SEC)



117 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 11, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Mexican Papers Want To Keep Tie With State

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 1

 BODY:
Something odd has happened to President Carlos Salinas de Gortari's effort to reduce the Government's financial influence over Mexico's newspapers.
The newspaper publishers are resisting it.
Indeed, many publishers see the measure as a threat to longstanding business and political arrangements with the state.
Mr. Salinas, in an address to the Inter-American Press Association in October, offered to relinquish the Mexican Government's monopoly on newsprint to remove ''any obstacle to the full exercise of freedom of expression'' here. But the publishers' association responded by unanimously requesting that the company ''remain a public-sector enterprise.'' 
 
Control of the Press
Founded in 1935, the state monopoly, Productora y Importadora de Papel S.A., was originally set up to alleviate publishers' concerns about the scarcity and high price of newsprint. But Pipsa, as the monopoly is known, has frequently been used by the Government to insure its control of the press.
The reluctance of publishers to endorse the end of the long-unprofitable state monopoly is a vivid indication of the trouble that most newspapers and magazines are having in adjusting to changes in Mexico.
Last year's hotly contested presidential election and the emergence of a more competitive political system have led to a growing public dissatisfaction with a press that is widely viewed as corrupt and submissive to the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, which has been in power since 1929.
Meanwhile, Mr. Salinas, who took office on Dec. 1, 1988, has carried out an economic program that includes withdrawing subsidies and selling inefficient state-run enterprises.
 
Good and Bad Relations
The newsprint question is important both for economic and political reasons, given that the Mexican Government has been known to limit supplies to publications that offend the state. In 1974, for example, the independent daily El Norte of Monterrey found its newsprint supply cut by 83 percent when Mexico's President, Luis Echeverria, was angered by the paper's news coverage and editorials.
''We have had fairly good relations with this administration and fairly bad relations with some previous administrations,'' said Ramon Alberto Garza, the editorial director of El Norte, which has long pressed for an end to the newsprint monopoly. ''But in a democratic regime, you can't depend on the good will of the President and the head of Pipsa.''
For many newspaper owners, though, the state monopoly offers financial advantages. As the editor of one leading daily acknowledged recently, Pipsa is ''a source of unlimited credit,'' which allows unprofitable newspapers to run up huge bills that are either not collected or heavily discounted.
Critics of the press argue that in return most major daily newspapers refrain from publishing articles that might offend the Ministry of the Interior, which runs Pipsa, or the PRI. In their statement calling for Pipsa to remain in state hands, the publishers denied those accusations.
 
Embarrassing Incident
One week before Mr. Salinas spoke, however, the Mexican press was publicly embarrassed when Manuel Becerra Acosta, the editor of the left-center Mexico City daily Unomasuno until early this year, told a Mexican news magazine that he had agreed to sell his shares in the newspaper and go into exile in Spain in return for a $1 million payment from the Interior Ministry. His troubles began, he said, when the Government demanded that he pay a $2 million debt to Pipsa. He also asserted that the Government now controlled his shares through a prominent business executive with close ties to the PRI.
The Interior Ministry has neither confirmed nor denied Mr. Becerra's account, and the new management of Unomasuno has denied the charges. But the incident further damaged the press's image and also cast doubt on the sincerity of Mr. Salinas's declarations that he wants to promote a strong and independent press.
In practice, the famous dictum about the Mexican press by the former President, Jose Lopez Portillo - ''I don't pay them so that they can beat up on me'' - still seems to be in force. Reporters at several leading newspapers, who asked not to be identified, say that Government ministries, the PRI, labor unions and others continue to pay monthly stipends to deflect unfavorable coverage, and that most reporters accept these bribes, which often total several hundred dollars.
 
Low Salaries for Reporters
What is seen by many here as institutionalized bribery has not been discouraged by many publishers, since it allows them to pay reporters' salaries as little as $150 a month. In addition, many reporters are expected to seek advertising from the state agencies, private companies or political organizations they cover.
The Government is the leading advertiser in newspapers and magazines, supplying some 60 to 80 percent of the revenues of most publications, editors and publishers say. Previous administrations have threatened to withhold advertising to punish publications that step out of line, which has led to editorial timidity.
''Newspaper profitability does not lie in the number of copies sold,'' said Miguel Angel Granados Chapa, an editor at La Jornada, a left-wing daily often critical of the Government. ''On the contrary, it lies in printing the least number of copies, since the main source of income is advertisements, especially Government advertisements, which do not bear any relation to the prestige and/or influence of a given newspaper.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PAPPEL (BMV) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (94%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: BIO-PAPPEL SAB (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); NEWSPRINT (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (55%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) CARLOS SALINAS (93%); 



118 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE SUMMIT;
BUSH SAYS SOVIETS MERIT WEST'S HELP TO FOSTER REFORM

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Dec. 4

 BODY:
President Bush said today that the West should help out President Mikhail S. Gorbachev to show support for the changes taking place in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
At a news conference after meeting the other leaders of the 16-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Mr. Bush provided new insights into why he offered economic concessions to the Soviet leader during their two-day weekend meeting in Malta.
Asked why he was now more supportive of Mr. Gorbachev than he had been earlier in the year, Mr. Bush said his ''new thinking'' was based on admiration for the ''the way in which Mr. Gorbachev has handled the changes in Eastern Europe,'' and for his willingness to go along with arms control reductions in which Soviet forces are cut deeper than Western forces. 
 
'Respect for What He's Doing'
''When I hear him talk about peaceful change and the right of countries to choose - countries in the Warsaw Pact to choose - that deserves new thinking,'' Mr. Bush said of the Soviet leader. ''And so I approach this, and I think, in step with our allies, with a certain respect for what he's doing, and thus we want to try to meet him on some of the areas where he needs help. I'm thinking of a few suggestions I had in the economic area.'' [Excerpts, page A16.] But Mr. Bush refused to endorse Mr. Gorbachev's comment on Sunday that the cold war epoch was over.
''Things have moved dramatically'' since the days when the two sides often confronted each other, Mr. Bush said. ''But if I signal to you there's no cold war, then you'll say, 'Well, what are you doing with troops in Europe?' ''
The first commentaries in the Soviet press today on the Malta talks praised the leaders for lowering tensions, advancing the cause of arms control, and endorsing Mr. Gorbachev's course of political change. Yuri Kornilov, political analyst for the news agency Tass, proclaimed the summit meeting ''the most important and most memorable political event of 1989.''
 
Caution on Western Aid
Soviet analysts barely mentioned Mr. Bush's offer of economic cooperation, in part because Moscow is wary of seeming to grovel for Western aid, and in part because it does not want to encourage the popular feeling there that the West can bail out the floundering Soviet economy.
At the news conference, Mr. Bush said he had also assured NATO allies about the continued American determination to keep ''significant'' military forces in Europe, despite any accords that might be reached on cutting conventional forces on the Continent.
He said he and Mr. Gorbachev had not reached any understanding on deeper cuts in each alliance's forces beyond those being discussed at the negotiations taking place in Vienna, which Mr. Bush wants concluded by the end of next year.
''The United States will remain a European power,'' he said. ''And that means that the United States will stay engaged in the future of Europe and in our common defense.''
Asked about the issue of German reunification, the President read a four-point statement that summed up the American position:
''Self-determination must be pursued without prejudice to its outcome, and we should not at this time endorse any particular vision. Secondly, unification should occur in the context of Germany's continued commitment to NATO, an increasingly integrated European Community, and with due regard for the legal role and responsibilities of the Allied powers. Third, in the interest of general European stability, moves toward unification must be peaceful, gradual, and part of a step-by-step basis. And these were - and lastly, on the question of borders, we should reiterate our support for the principles of the Helsinki Final Act.''
The Final Act, a document on European security and human rights, was ratified by 35 nations in 1975, Mr. Bush also said his specific proposal to grant certain economic concessions to the Soviet Union was meant to give Mr. Gorbachev an incentive to maintain the path of liberalization and change in Soviet society.
''There's a tremendous potential for a Soviet Union that is in accord with us on these democratic values,'' he said. ''It's a tremendous market, for example, but it needs the economic reform. So what we've got to do is be sure that we conduct ourselves in such a way that the changes, the political reforms, can keep going forward there in Eastern Europe, that they can - that the Soviet Union can do what Mr. Gorbachev is trying to do internally.''
Mr. Bush also went out of his way to emphasize that no decisions affecting the future of Europe were made during his talks with Mr. Gorbachev. He added that ''our trans-Atlantic partnership'' should play the central role in shaping a new Europe.
The President decided to stop over in Brussels on his way home to Washington after some West European governments expressed fears that the United States and the Soviet Union were seeking to reassert their traditional dominance over Europe at a time of dramatic and unpredictable change in Eastern Europe.
But the initial response of some key Western European leaders to Mr. Bush's report today suggested that he had succeeded in reinforcing a common NATO front on the two key areas of encouraging political change in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe and of maintaining a strong alliance.
''Whatever the political nature of the speeches,'' Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain said after today's meetings, ''time after time, the need to keep NATO strong and secure came through.''
Describing her response to events in Eastern Europe as optimistic rather than euphoric, she praised Mr. Bush for being ''rightly cautious.''
 
NATO Supports Perestroika
The Secretary General of NATO, Manfred Worner, told reporters that the participating presidents and prime ministers gave ''unanimous support'' to the Soviet Union's program of liberalization, known as perestroika, and stressed the need for ''a common Western approach'' to developments in the Communist bloc.
''It is clear that we will respect - we will continue to respect - Soviet security interests just as we expect them to respect our security interests,'' Mr. Worner said.
Western officials said NATO's European members were also satisfied that while Mr. Bush promised the United States would work toward rapid conclusion of new agreements covering strategic, conventional and chemical weapons, he did not commit the alliance to further disarmament moves.
''I think the best thing to do is to take advantage of the moment and move forward in those three areas,'' Mr. Bush told reporters before returning to Washington tonight. ''We ought to manage that before we start the architecture of something else.''
But while much of Mr. Bush's presentation today was focused on fast-changing East-West relations, the meeting also took place amid growing nervousness in the alliance over how the delicate question of German reunification should be handled.
In Malta, both Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev placed the elimination of the division of Germany in the context of the broader elimination of the division of Europe, in both cases pointedly avoiding any reference to a time period in which this could take place.
Today Mr. Bush returned to the same theme, reiterating NATO's traditional support for the reunification of Germany, but stressing that it should occur ''in the context of Germany's continued commitment to NATO and an increasingly integrated European Community.'' He added that moves toward reunification should be ''peaceful, gradual and part of a step-by-step process.''
 
Kohl Thanks Bush for Support
The West German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, told reporters that some adverse reactions to his 10-point reunification plan announced last week had come from people who had not read it. ''The timetable that people talk about has been set by others,'' he said. ''Our timing is embedded in the timing of Europe as a whole.''
After restating his ideas at the NATO meeting, though, the Chancellor acknowledged that ''there are some chiefs of government who harbor some reservation, although I have no intention of giving report card marks.''
Mr. Kohl, who was given a personal briefing by Mr. Bush on the Malta talks over dinner here Sunday, also thanked the President for providing his Government with political support during the current period of change in Europe.
Asked whether he consulted Mr. Bush before announcing his plan for German reunification, Mr. Kohl said: ''Concretely speaking, no. But it was not necessary because it was a reformulation of German positions.''
Significantly, despite recent speculation about possible American troop withdrawals from Western Europe as a result of developments in Eastern Europe, the subject of the allied military presence in West Germany was apparently not debated today.
Rather, Mr. Bush's message was that ''NATO's traditional security mission'' should be maintained since ''the potential for strife is inherent in any period of fundamental political transition.'' He added, ''I pledge today that the United States will maintain significant military forces in Europe as long as our allies desire our presence as part of a common security effort.''

GRAPHIC: photo of President Bush, Margaret Thatcher and Brian Mulroney (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); MALTA (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE, EAST; EUROPE

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (84%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ARMED FORCES (62%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN); MULRONEY, BRIAN (PRIME MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 



119 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17
 
The West should help out Moscow, particularly with economic concessions, President Bush said. But he would not endorse President Gorbachev's comment that the cold war epoch was over. Page A1

 
President Bush's success at Malta is the delicate balance he struck between demonstrating global leadership and not antagonizing the Western Alliance, White House officials say. A17

 
The flow of arms in Central America through Cuba and Nicaragua could not easily be stopped by President Gorbachev even if he made assiduous efforts, experts say. A17 
 
 
The Soviet-led invasion of Prague in 1968 has been condemned jointly by the five Warsaw Pact nations that took part: the Soviet Union, East Germany, Poland, Hungary and Bulgaria. A1

 
East Germans marched in Leipzig once again, but this time they demanded German reunification and the dissolution of the Communist Party. A1

 
Who is running East Germany? For the first time in 40 years the answer may not be the Communist Party, but a Government led by Prime Minister Hans Modrow, who yesterday met with Mikhail Gorbachev in Moscow. A15

 
About 200,000 protested in Prague, denouncing the new Government and applauding a call for a general strike next Monday if it is not replaced. A1

 
New Prague opposition to enter free elections A14

 
Taboos in the Yugoslav press are being broken with more readiness as journalists show greater assertive-ness now that restrictions on freedom of expression are less absolute. A13

 
U.S. company to build cellular phone system for Budapest D1

 
The Palestinian uprising continues, entering its third year. Israel's Defense Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, acknowledged that the army has not been able to bring the revolt under control. A3

 
Christians battle Muslims in southern Lebanon A3

Arabs at U.N. ask for concessions on P.L.O. issue A5

Afghan general and rebel leaders reported slain A12

U.S. asks for evacuation in Manila area A8

U.S. military aid not needed in Philippines, White House says A8

 
Taiwan's recent explosion of wealth has become much more obvious at home and abroad. The stock market's trading volume exceeds the London Stock Exchange's, and a plush apartment exceeds $1 million. A9

 
In Zaire, trade with South Africa, which remains a pariah in much of black-ruled Africa, is not only tolerated, but increasingly seems to be encouraged. A11

 
Pretoria sees new arrests in killing of opponents A10

 
NATIONAL A20-33, B16-21
 
The Federal regulator M. Danny Wall resigned under fire. Though he has become a symbol of the nation's failure to adequately regulate the savings and loan industry, he contended he had been made a scapegoat. A1

 
A criminal inquiry of H.U.D. actions was begun to determine whether a special prosecutor should be appointed to examine allegations against the former Secretary, Samuel Pierce. A20

 
Prosecutors deny hearing Poindexter's testimony A23

Justices agree to hear case on water use A21

Jury selection begins California lawmaker's trial A27

Jury bogged down in California molestation case A30

Confession in church sets off a legal battle A31

 
Premiums for catastrophic coverage will still be paid by Medicare's 33 million beneficiaries for up to six months, even though the law was repealed Nov. 22. A1

 
The Navy clashed with protesters in the Atlantic Ocean 50 miles east of Florida before it successfully tested its Trident 2 missile. A1

 
Army's rifle of the future: two bullets at once? A25

 
Washington at Work: Admiral Trost, the 59-year-old Chief of Naval Operations, has been caught in the limelight emanating from a series of crises facing the Navy. B16

 
Virtual ban proposed for widely used fungicide A20

 
Santa Cruz merchants are rebuilding their sales, if not their buildings, since the Oct. 17 earthquake leveled much of the downtown business district. A20

 
The cost of drug abuse: $60 billion a year D1

Sales of all-terrain vehicles for children assailed A33

 
REGIONAL B1-14
 
What price for a town's success? A Westchester community that capitalized on industrial growth earlier this decade now questions the impact of its decisions. B1

 
The investigation of the stock deal by Mayor-elect David Dinkins is likely to focus on the same questions that were raised in the campaign. B1

 
David Dinkins's campaign treasury has a reported $810,000 surplus, which he is trying to reduce to avoid having to return substantial public financing. Rudolph Giuliani raised and spent $6.1 million. B2

 
Appellate judge is cleared of using improper influence B3

Panel backs a 3-month delay in ethics rules B7

 
Freezing cold gripped New York. As thousands of homeless people took refuge in rail and subway stations, transportation officials suspended efforts to turn them out. B1

 
Delays in new telephone service will not subside for some time, even though the telephone strike has ended. New York Telephone Company officials say there is a 250,000-order backlog. B12

 
New Jersey's prenatal health plan will be expanded in March to include all pregnant women in the state. B1

 
New York State to start testing all newborns for syphilis B2

Santa Claus, North Pole, 33d Street B3

Police begin using teddy bears to comfort children B9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); EUROPE (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); HUNGARY (79%); AFRICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); POLAND (79%); BULGARIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (70%); JOURNALISM (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); HOMICIDE (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); STOCK INDEXES (65%); RELIGION (63%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (84%); 



120 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Manila Embassy Warns Americans

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANILA, Tuesday, Dec. 5

 BODY:
The United States Embassy today urged Americans living in the Makati area, the financial center of Manila, to leave their homes for safer areas as heavy fighting resumed between Government and rebel forces.
Within hours of the evacuation order, employees of several embassies and their families, along with foreign and Filipino residents of the Makati area, streamed across the city toward Manila Bay.
Families that had not been able to leave their houses for days went to hotels in search of rooms, showers and food.
Rebel soldiers had trapped 2,000 foreigners, including more than 200 Americans, in hotels in Makati. In addition, thousands of residents were trapped in Makati's condominiums, apartments and office buildings. 
Efforts to evacuate the foreigners from the rebel-controlled area appeared to have stalled early today, though both the rebel camp and the Government had issued statements saying that the foreigners would be taken out of the area.
 
U.S. Plea Appears Unheeded
The American evacuation notice, repeated on television throughout the morning, came despite repeated statements by the Philippine Government that it had crushed the coup attempt against the Government of President Corazon C. Aquino. Troops loyal to Mrs. Aquino have surrounded the financial district and the American warning said that ''there is a possibility of increased hostility'' throughout the area.
A Western diplomat said the United States Ambassador, Nicholas Platt, had tried to persuade Mrs. Aquino to hold off on any assault in the Makati area but that she had refused, saying that her mind was made up. Government buses were reported on the way to Makati to evacuate tourists and, at one point, according to residents, rebels in control of apartment buildings urged occupants to move to basements for safety.
More than 2,000 Americans live in the area directly under fire and in the luxurious walled residential neighborhoods that surround it.
Because the rebel force of about 350soldiers is spread among 20 buildings in Makati, Philippine Government forces had held off from any direct attack because of the fear of extensive civilian casualties. But early today there were widespread reports that the Government forces would attempt to route the rebels from the Inter-Continental Hotel, where many Americans and other foreigners have locked themselves in their rooms. ''It's a very dangerous situation,'' one American official said.
 
Gunfire in the Streets
Automatic gunfire echoed through Makati's streets and three to five people were reported killed and more than a dozen wounded. In one instance, rebel soldiers reportedly opened fire on Red Cross workers seeking to get the injured out of the area. One American man was reported injured by flying glass; another was reported wounded by a stray bullet.
Two bombs exploded in the capital late Monday, but it was not known if they were linked to the coup attempt, which began on Friday and has so far killed 100 people and wounded more than 500.
One bomb exploded in the compound of the Central Bank, the equivalent to the Federal Reserve. There were no injuries. A second bomb went off in the tourist belt district of Ermita, damaging a vehicle and shattering windows.
The continued violence came amid heightened criticism here of Mrs. Aquino for drawing American forces into the effort to quell the rebellion. Commentators and newspaper editorials on Monday declared that her reliance on American help proved that Mrs. Aquino is a ''U.S. puppet'' and said that while the brief intervention of United States forces may have saved her presidency it undermined her credibility.
 
Some Normalcy in the City
Some measures of normalcy did return to the city on Monday, however. The main airport in Manila reopened for the first time since the coup attempt, though many flights into the country were canceled by airlines fearful of violence. Domestic flights were indefinitely postponed and schools were closed. But Government employees were told to return to work except in the Makati area.
The main streets were quieter than usual, but a local McDonald's restaurant was filled at dinnertime on Monday and even the shooting in Makati attracted crowds, some of whom numbered among the wounded.
In the last four days, most of the casualties have occurred in Makati and at Camp Aguinaldo, the army's headquarters.
Among those trapped in the office buildings and hotels of Makati were about 200 Americans, 300 Japanese, 70 Germans, and 50 to 100 Canadians, both tourists and business executives. Some were injured in the shootings, mostly by flying glass. ''We're like sitting ducks here,'' said Noemi Balpazar, a Canadian citizen. ''Why doesn't the Government care about us?''
 
Pleading With Rebels
In fact, late Monday the Department of Tourism pleaded with the rebels not to further harm the Philippine economy by continuing the standoff. ''Let us not create further tension among our foreign guests who are not involved in this struggle,'' said Rafael Alunan, who heads the Tourism Department.
The chaos and gunfire has sent Manila's diplomatic community scurrying, but Government officials said they could do little to either free those caught in the crossfire or end the fighting. An Australian man was reported severely wounded and a Taiwanese woman was killed. ''It is not a hostage situation,'' said Jerry Huchel, the spokesman for the United States Embassy. ''They just can't leave.''
In an interview broadcast here on Monday, Capt. Alfred Yen, a leader of the rebel troops, said that foreigners might be allowed to go today. But the fighting, he said, would go on. ''We will hold the line to the last drop of our blood,'' he said.
 
Feeding Criticism of Aquino
Although the rebellion seems likely to fail, the rebels appeared determined to further undercut Mrs. Aquino's authority, feeding criticism that she is weak and indecisive.
Foreign diplomats now say that she had no choice but to turn to the United States for help, and most agree that President Bush's willingness to use American Air Force fighters to quell the rebellion probably saved her Government.
But for Mrs. Aquino the price was high. Even some of her supporters have assailed the involvement of foreign forces in Philippines domestic affairs. Some believe that it will now be harder for her to negotiate a new agreement for American use of bases here without appearing to be repaying Mr. Bush.

GRAPHIC: map of Manila

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IHG (NYSE) (52%); IHG (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (94%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (52%); INTER-CONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP LTD (52%); INTER-CONTINENTAL HOTELS CORP (52%); INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (93%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SHOOTINGS (84%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (84%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); BOMBINGS (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; AQUINO, CORAZON C (PRES)



121 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Embraces Trappings of New Wealth

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Along with the disabled who beg for change in the business district, young American street musicians can be spotted these days performing for the spare change of Chinese executives walking from their gleaming office buildings to their Mercedes-Benzes.
The image of Americans with their hands out, a stark turnabout from the envy that many Chinese here used to feel for American military officers or business executives, is a sign of the explosion of wealth in Taiwan in the last few years. Although Taiwan's economic development progressed steadily over the decades, it has recently became much more obvious. The stock market began an extraordinary boom four years ago that has boosted the value of trading volume to levels exceeding that of the London Stock Exchange. Property prices also have soared, with a plush apartment in Taipei now worth $1 million or more. 
Internationally, Taiwan is wielding more muscle. Its official foreign exchange reserves total $73 billion, a level exceeded only by Japan. Taiwan also has become one of the biggest foreign investors in Asia, and that role is expected to expand.
Because the boom has brought a growing willingness to spend money instead of save, the streets of Taipei are clogged with Mercedes-Benzes and Volvos and Jaguars in addition to the usual motorcycles. Some tycoons have gone in for conspicuous consumption, like $3,000 meals of bear paw.
''We're starting to see the trappings of a consumer society,'' said Peter Kurz, managing director of Baring Securities Ltd. in Taipei.
The rise of the Taiwanese consumer, represented by the luxurious new Sogo Department Store in the city center, is a sharp break with the tradition here and in other Chinese societies of favoring saving over spending. In Taiwan, the savings rate has averaged a stunning 30 percent in recent decades and is one of the reasons for the country's extraordinary economic growth.
The newfound wealth seems to have bred some dissatisfaction, however.
''Per capita incomes have gone up drastically, but the real quality of living did not,'' said Jaw Shaukang, a legislator in the ruling Nationalist Party. ''In fact, in some areas, the quality of life decreased.'' He pointed to traffic congestion, crime, pollution and the rising cost of housing.
The malaise is compounded by a growing disparity in income. After land redistribution in the 1950's, Taiwan had become one of the world's most egalitarian societies. While income is still more evenly distributed than in most countries, the gap has widened over the last five years as a new wealthy class emerged.
''Our per capita income is $7,500 a year; yours is $17,000,'' Fredrick F. Chien, chairman of the Council of Economic Planning and Development, told an American the other day. ''Ours is less than half the size of yours. But looking at the way people spend money, it seems they are enjoying a higher standard of living even than our American friends.''
The boom in consumption results primarily from the rise in paper assets. Stock prices have risen 10-fold in the last four years, and property prices by nearly the same amount. People with an extra bit of land or with an account at a stock brokerage saw their net worth soar, and salaries skyrocketed in the real estate and investment sectors. A stockbroker may now earn $20,000 a month or more in commissions.
''It's not a sudden wealth,'' said Paul S. P. Hsu, a prominent Taipei lawyer. ''It's an accumulated wealth.'' An average middle-class family gets only half its income from salaries, he said, with the rest coming from bonuses, stock market gains and other investment earnings. With its accumulated savings, Taiwan has a much higher level of assets per capita than a typical economy with the same level of income.
Estimates of Taiwan's income vary. The official per capita estimate was $7,500 this year and is projected at $20,000 by the year 2000. But experts say that real per capita income may already exceed $10,000 because of the tremendous amount of business that for tax reasons is never reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%); 

COMPANY: BARING SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIWAN

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME STREET ART (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); HOME PRICES (74%); TRENDS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); RETAILERS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D



122 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2047 words

HEADLINE: Zaire's Trade With Pretoria Isn't Slowing

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Zaire, Dec. 4

 BODY:
As the Zairian diplomat poured sparkling wine for a visitor, he made no effort to hide the label, which proclaimed, ''Product of South Africa.''
Dressed in a silk ascot and an elegant abacost, the lapelless suit designed as a Zairian answer to European business dress - its name is a contraction of ''a bas le costume,'' French for ''down with the suit'' - the diplomat said the wine was ''a lot cheaper than imported French champagne, and it's almost as good.''
In much of black-ruled Africa, Pretoria remains a pariah, at least publicly. But in Zaire, trade with South Africa is not only tolerated, but increasingly seems to be officially encouraged. Zairian stores these days are awash with South African goods, from frozen chicken livers to refrigerators, toys and small appliances. Three airlines -TAP, the Portuguese carrier; Sabena, the Belgian line, and U.T.A., a French-owned company, fly frequently between Kinshasa and Johannesburg. 
 
Afrikaans-Subtitled Movies
South African Airways now schedules direct flights to Lubumbashi, the capital of Zaire's mineral-rich southern region. At least two South African trade missions have visited Zaire in recent months, and several South African businessmen are now permanently based here. The Inter-Continental, Kinshasa's premier hotel, shows movies with subtitles in Afrikaans.
Since early November, under the terms of a new agreement, South Africans and Zairians no longer need visas to vist each other's countries for two weeks or less.
''There is a certain tolerance'' for doing business with Pretoria, said Nkema Liloo, a senior adviser to President Mobutu Sese Seko. ''Private businessmen are very aggressive here, and the Government can't stop it.''
Mr. Nkema and other Zairian officials say they have no way of knowing the extent of Zairian business dealings with South Africa, but Western economists here say it has increased markedly in recent years.
According to one estimate, South Africa, which two years ago was not even among Zaire's top 10 trading partners, has risen to No. 4, behind Belgium, the United States and West Germany.
 
Trade and Investment Sought
President Mobutu can use new sources of trade and investment right now. Although his Government is usually described as pro-Western, private investors, particularly from the United States, have long been reluctant to invest in an economy plagued by mismanagement and corruption.
Per capita income in Zaire, which is widely believed to be one of the five poorest countries in the world, is about $150 a year.
Zaire is not South Africa's only trading partner on the continent. African diplomats say that Nigeria, Kenya and Ghana are believed to be the only black-ruled countries that really have virtually no trade or diplomatic contact with Pretoria.
South African officials say openly that economic expansion into the rest of the continent is an integral part of their efforts to gain political acceptability. Nearly one-third of all South African exports of manufactured goods are now flowing north to black-ruled countries in an attempt to forge new ''economic bridgeheads,'' said Kent Durr, South Africa's Minister of Trade, Industry and Tourism, according to an article published earlier this month in South Africa.
''We must look at our neighbors with new eyes.'' Mr. Durr told a business conference.
 
Tie Worries Some Zairians
The relationship worries some Zairians, although there is virtually no public discussion of the issue in a country where news organizations are tightly controlled by the Government.
''It's definitely hypocritical'' to continue trading with South Africa while publicly opposing apartheid, said Bongoma Koni Botoke, a prominent Zairian journalist.
''Sanctions were imposed to get South Africa to change its policies, but that hasn't happened, so we should continue sanctions,'' Mr. Bongoma said.
Zairian officials argue that the trade between the two countries is not propping up apartheid. ''It is not the African countries that are making South Africa richer,'' said Mr. Nkema, the presidental adviser, ''it is the United States and Japan.'' Trade between South Africa and its black-ruled neighbors is a ''drop of water in the ocean,'' he said.
With Woes Behind, Mahorn Focuses on Image Former Piston Aims to Leave an Indelible Impression on the 76ers, His New Team JMP. HED MAHORN 76ers' Mahorn Puts Woes Behind By CLIFTON BROWN PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 4 - All things considered, Rick Mahorn is glad to be in Philadelphia.
Mahorn spent the off season watching his basketball career turn into a soap opera. And there were many moments when he wondered not only where he would play this season, but even if he wanted to play anymore.
But as Mahorn wheeled his black sports car through the City of Brotherly Love recently, the music on his compact disk player was blaring and Mahorn was smiling.
His troubles were behind him. His thoughts were focused on basketball again, and his most immediate goal was to leave an indelible impression on his newest team: the Philadelphia 76ers.
 
Survival of the Fittest
''Only the strong survive,'' said Mahorn, a 6-foot-10-inch, 252-pound power forward who is nothing if not strong. ''That's the attitude I have, and that's the attitude I'm bringing to Philadelphia.
''I went through a lot this summer, but now that I'm with Philadelphia, the Sixers are my friends and everyone else is the enemy. I'm just glad things worked out the way they did.''
Ironically, Mahorn's off-season problems began immediately after one of the happiest periods of his life. Mahorn helped the Detroit Pistons win their first National Basketball Association championship in June, and his play as the starting power forward was an integral part of their success.
The 31-year-old Mahorn fully expected to finish his career in Detroit. But just two days after the championship game, the Pistons left Mahorn off their list of protected players and he was selected by the Minnesota Timberwolves in the expansion draft.
Mahorn was shocked and hurt. And the timing was brutal, because Mahorn was told he was no longer a member of the Pistons immediately after the championship parade.
 
Never Saw It Coming
''I didn't have a clue they would let me go,'' Mahorn said. ''I had just finished enjoying the celebration, then smack, I was gone.''
Because of Mahorn's history of back problems, the Pistons felt he was more expendable than either James Edwards or Vinnie Johnson. Detroit tried to work out a deal with the Timberwolves to keep them from taking Mahorn, but was unsuccessful. So Mahorn was let go.
From there, things got worse. Mahorn visited Minneapolis, met with the team's management, and said he was genuinely impressed with the new franchise. But before he would play in Minnesota, Mahorn asked to renegotiate his contract. He was in the final year of a contract which paid him $675,000 a season. Mahorn asked for a new three-year deal worth at least $1.5 million a year.
''Minnesota was over $3 million under the salary cap, so why not give some of that money to their marquee player, the starting power forward on a championship team?'' said Alton Walton, Mahorn's agent. ''But Minnesota didn't see it that way. The negotiations got nasty.''
When the Timberwolves refused to renegotiate Mahorn's contract, Mahorn refused to report to training camp. Then he considered retiring. Then Mahorn was offered a contract by the Verona team in the Italian National League.
 
Some Summer Vacation
Mahorn spent a week in Italy, liked what he saw, and was offered a seven-year contract worth a reported $6.5 million. Minnesota threatened to sue Mahorn for breech of contract if he signed with the Italian team.
This was not the kind of summer vacation Mahorn had had in mind.
''It just kept getting worse, Minnesota threatening me, us threatening them,'' Mahorn said. ''Honestly, I would have played in Minnesota for a lot less than I was asking. I had even told my daughter, Moyah, that Minnesota was going to be a nice place for her to grow up. But I couldn't see playing there for far less than what I was worth.''
The stonewalling finally ended Oct. 27, when the Timberwolves traded Mahorn to Philadelphia for a first-round draft choice in 1990 and second-round picks in 1991 and 1992. The 76ers rewrote Mahorn's contract and gave him a new three-year deal worth $3.8 million.
Mahorn is happier and richer, but it hasn't taken the edge off the way he plays basketball. After a month with the 76ers, Mahorn is playing the same hard-nosed basketball that has become his trademark. Among opposing fans and players, Mahorn is one of the league's least-liked players. He couldn't care less.
 
Equipped With a Shoulder Chip
''I go through a personality change when I hit the court,'' Mahorn said. ''I come to games with a chip on my shoulder. If somebody's not wearing the same color jersey I'm wearing, then basically, they're not a friend of mine.''
Over the last three seasons, Mahorn has been involved in as many altercations as any player in the league. He has been fined numerous times, ejected from games and served a one-game suspension two years ago for a flagrant foul against Michael Jordan.
Yet Mahorn's value to a team is unquestioned. He is an excellent defensive player, a capable scorer and his physical, no-nonsense style has been known to intimidate some players.
Since Mahorn joined the starting lineup on Nov. 22, the 76ers are 4-2. Jimmy Lynam, the 76ers' coach, said that is no coincidence.
''Ricky is very, very bright,'' Lynam said. ''He may be the most intelligent defensive player I've been around since I've been in the league. He's a winner and as an opponent, you don't appreciate how good he is.
''I've always liked him, although he wasn't so sure of that when he first came here. He takes a perverse delight in annoying the opposition, and he figured I was mad at him about some things he did against the Sixers in the past. But I wasn't.''
 
Laughing at an Image
Not everyone agrees. When he played with the Washington Bullets, Mahorn and Jeff Ruland were nicknamed McFilthy and McNasty for their tactics. In Detroit, Mahorn was part of The Bad Boys, the moniker given to the Pistons who were unquestionably the league's most physical team.
Mahorn has learned to laugh at his reputation, even if everyone else does not laugh with him.
''What's to be intimidated about with me?'' Mahorn said. ''I put my clothes on the same way everybody else does. Maybe the media hype of Rick Mahorn, the big bad guy, makes people feel that way. I can walk through the streets of a bad neighborhood and people say, 'What's up Rick, how you doing?' I might be scared to death, but they don't know it.
''I get booed everywhere, but those people don't pay my check. I got booed when I went back to Minnesota. I even got booed in Hartford, my hometown. You know it's bad when they boo you in your hometown. But as long as my daughter and my family weren't booing, I didn't care. It used to bother me, because I know I'm not the person they think I am. Now it doesn't. I used to got booed in Philadelphia, too, but now I get cheered.''
 
Philadelphia Pranksters
In Philadelphia, Mahorn is teamed with Charles Barkley, giving Philadelphia the league's strongest pair of starting forwards. Barkley loves having Mahorn for a teammate, not only because of his talent, but because of his sense of humor. Barkley and Mahorn are two of the league's biggest pranksters, and anyone entering the 76ers' locker room does so at their own risk.
''Rick can't fight a lick,'' said Barkley, after grabbing Mahorn in a post-practice bear hug. ''He's living on reputation.
''He's a better player than people think, and he's going to make us better.''
Mahorn already has March 2 circled on his calendar, the night the 76ers will play Detroit at the Palace in Auburn Hills, Mich., for the first time since Mahorn left.
''It'll feel good to be back, and they're going to have a ceremony to present me with my championship ring,'' Mahorn said. ''The main thing I want to do is to show management they shouldn't have let me go. But no matter what happens, I know I've survived. That's the key. Now I can go back to having some fun again.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (90%); GHANA (79%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); NIGERIA (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (90%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS (PTY) LTD (55%); TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ZAIRE, REPUBLIC OF; SOUTH AFRICA, REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AIRLINES (90%); WINE (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (74%); POULTRY (73%); AIR SERVICE (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B



123 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3609 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE SUMMIT;
Excerpts From Bush's News Conference After NATO Meeting

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a transcript of President Bush's news conference today after his meeting here with leaders of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization:
 
OPENING STATEMENT
This year, the people of the East made fundamental choices about their destiny, and governments there began to honor the citizens' right to choose. What these changes amount to is nothing less than a peaceful revolution. And the task before us, therefore, is to consolidate the fruits of this peaceful revolution and provide the architecture for continued peaceful change, to end the division of Europe and of Germany, to make Europe whole and free.
Great choices are being made, greater opportunities beckon. The political strategy for NATO that we agreed upon last May makes the promotion of greater freedom in the East a basic element of alliance policy. Accordingly, NATO should promote human rights, democracy and reform within Eastern countries as the best means of encouraging reconciliation among the countries of Eastern and Western Europe. 
Although this is a time of great hope - and it is - we must not blur the distinction between promising expectations and present realities. We must remain constant with NATO's traditional security mission. I pledged today that the United States will maintain significant military forces in Europe as long as our allies desire our presence as part of a common defense effort. The U.S. will remain a European power, and that means that the United States will stay engaged in the future of Europe and in our common defense.
Many of the values that should guide Europe's future are described in the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. These values encompass the freedom of people to choose their destiny under a rule of law with rulers who are democratically accountable.
I think we can look to the C.S.C.E. to play a greater role in the future of Europe. The 35 nations of the C.S.C.E. bridge both the division of Europe and the Atlantic Ocean. It is a structure that should be able to contribute much to the future architecture of Europe.
I also appreciate the vital role that the E.C. must play in the new Europe. And it is my belief that the events of our times call both for a continued, perhaps even intensified, effort of the 12 to integrate and a role for the E.C. as a magnet that draws the forces of reform toward Eastern Europe. . . .
We stand on the threshold of a new era, and we know that we are contributing to a process of history, driven by the peoples determined to be free. The people of Europe, especially the brave citizens of the East, are illuminating the future, and yet the outcome is not predestined. It depends on our continued strength and our solidarity as an alliance.
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
The 'Peace Dividend'
 
Q. Mr. President, I have a two-part question. You have made it clear that you are going stay in Europe. But in view of the dramatic reduction in tensions and the obvious weakening of the Warsaw Pact, what will be the real American role? And two, will there now be more money for the poor and the homeless, public housing? The nation is really badly in need of repair of infrastructure.
 
A. We have a lot of demands at home, and there's no question about that. But I think it is premature to speak, as some are at home, about a ''peace dividend'' - take a lot of money out of defense and put it into other worthy causes. . . . We are under a tremendous burden to get our total spending down in order to meet the Gramm-Rudman and the Gramm-Rudman targets. . . .
 
German Reunification
 
Q. Mr. President, Vernon Walters, your trusted adviser and the Ambassador to Bonn, said that he envisions a - said that Germany, East and West, will be reunited within five years. Do you think that's possible? And what would be the implications for NATO and the Warsaw Pact?
 
A. I am not into the predicting of time on the question of Germany. . . . I think it's better to let things move on their own and without the United States certainly setting some kind of deadline.
 
What Bush Learned
 
Q. Mr. President, you said, in announcing your meeting with Chairman Gorbachev, that one of the main reasons was that you wanted to make sure that, in this time of change, you didn't miss anything. In your two days of meetings, did you learn anything that you fear, or feel, that you might have missed had you not had this?
 
A. Yes. What I would have missed is I wouldn't see quite as clearly his priorities. I see them more clearly because he and I sat down and talked. . . . And I feel I can sense much more clearly the things he feels more strongly about.
And we had a good chance to point out to him some of the difficulties with our relationship. It wasn't all sweetness and light. I had a very - very good opportunity to tell him how we view the - our problems in our own hemisphere: the sending of arms in there to help the F.M.L.N., and the role that - unhelpful role - that Cuba is playing. I recited in detail the Oscar Arias phone call to me: ''Please raise with Mr. Gorbachev the unhelpful role, the destructive role of Cuba.'' . . .
And I think he was pleased, because I think from his standpoint - and this is important from mine - he now sees that we want to have a cooperative, forward-leaning relationship with the Soviet Union.
 
'Decoupling' the NATO Link
 
Q. . . . After World War II, the Europeans needed our money for the Marshall Plan. Then they needed our military backing because of the Soviet threat. But now . . . what are they going to need from us? What role do we really have to play here? We don't live on this continent.
 
A. You mean - would - why will there always have to be a U.S. presence?
 
Q. Why will there always have to be a NATO?
 
A. Well, I'm not sure - I'm - if you want to project out 100 years or--
 
Q. Well, no.
 
A. --take some - take some years off of that, you can look to a utopian day when there might not be. But as I pointed out to them, that day hasn't arrived, and they agree with me. And so the United States must stay involved. What we don't want to do is send the signal of decoupling, the decoupling of the United States and Canada from NATO, particularly at this highly sensitive time, and Mr. Gorbachev understood that.
 
Impressions of Gorbachev
 
Q. Mr. President, you had mentioned that you got some insight into President Gorbachev at this summit. I wonder if the insight included any sense of his internal position. Did he behave as if a man operating from a strong position, a man who seems to be in jeopardy, or how do you feel about that?
 
A. I thought he seemed very much in control. You can tell the way that he interacted with his own top people there. And he felt very confident in discussing . . . a wide array of subjects with me. . . . He seemed - ''subdued'' is the wrong word, but I would say determined and unemotional about it. The most emotion we saw was at that press conference yesterday, but it was a wonderful presentation. And the climate for - leave out the weather - the climate for the discussions was really good. . . .
 
Gorbachev's Views on Germany
 
Q. Mr. President, again as part of the insight you gained, what is your understanding about Secretary General Gorbachev's view of the unification of Germany? Do you think he's as opposed as he's said in public, or do you think that he accepts the fact that--
 
A. I think his view was one of . . . caution, and I really believe that. I think he recognizes the rapidity of change. He has very constructively talked about ''peaceful change,'' and I don't - I think his hope is that people don't try to set up some artificial calendar by which - date by which that reunification should happen. And I think he feels that, if there were outside forces setting dates on something like that, that would complicate the way in which he is managing the change and helping manage the change in the Pact. . . .
 
Troop Reductions
 
Q. Mr. President, there was a lot of speculation going in that you and Mr. Gorbachev might get involved in talking about deeper cuts, particularly in European forces. Did you, in fact, do that? And is there skepticism within this organization here about moving too rapidly beyond what has now been dubbed C.F.E. 1?
 
A. No, we didn't get into that. We talked very broadly about our aspirations for further arms control, but there was no emphasis on that. And I - there may be some strains in one country or another viewing the rapidity of change differently than we do. But what I suggested to our NATO allies is let's go forward with the agreements we've got out there. The C.F.E., let's get it done.
I, the President of the United States, will kick our bureaucracy and push it as fast as I possibly we can. . . . I'm convinced that we -I must do more to keep it on schedule. And I've encouraged the other allies to do the same. I don't think there was any resistance to that. Similarly, Start and chemical weapons.
So before we go into a wide array of other questions, I think the best thing to do is take advantage of the moment and move forward in those three areas. And I - we went - I went over that in little talks with individuals from NATO, as well as in the meeting itself. . . .
 
Q. But do you accept the principle of a C.F.E. 2?
 
A. Well, I'd like to get a C.F.E. 1 in the bank first, get it locked up, get those troops out, move down to equal levels - U.S. and Soviet forces. And so we ought to - we ought to manage that before we start the architecure of something else. I want to see that done on time. . . .
 
East German Instability
 
Q. Mr. President, on East Germany, as you know, the party structure, the Communist Party structure has collapsed there. It's unclear who's running the Government. I wonder if you talked about that, if you personally think that it's a dangerous situation, if that moves unification up in the timetable at all? And secondly, what Gorbachev said to you when you said to him, unification of Germany would have to be in the NATO context?
 
A. No, I don't think it's a dangerous situation. I don't think anybody here in this room, including myself, has been able to predict the rapidity of the change, the totality of the change. But I don't see it as dangerous, as long as the Soviet leader and the Germans and the West conduct themselves the way I've been - been urging.
What was the second part?
 
Q. Well, what Mr. Gorabachev said to you when you said unification, but only in the NATO context? I mean, he keeps saying it has to be in the Warsaw Pact context.
 
A. No, we - we - we were - I don't think we went into that in real depth, Lesley.
 
Q. Well, what do you think he thinks about it? I mean, obviously--
 
A. Well, that's too hypothetical. I got trouble figuring it out on our side with all our experts, rather than knowing what I think he might think about something he hasn't thought about maybe. . . .
 
Bush's New View of Gorbachev
 
Q. Mr. President - Mr. President, you seem to have traveled some distance between what you were saying about Mr. Gorbachev a year or so ago and some of the things you said yesterday. Could you please talk in a little bit more detail about the evolution in your thinking that you mentioned yesterday, how that happened and what persuaded you along the way?
 
A. As I watched the way in which Mr. Gorbachev has handled the changes in Eastern Europe, it deserves new thinking. It absolutely mandates new thinking. And when I see his willingness to give support to a C.F.E. agreement that calls for him to disproportionately reduce his forces, and that is there on the table, I think that mandates new thinking. When I hear him talk about peaceful change and the right of countries to choose -countries in the Warsaw Pact to choose -that deserves new thinking.
And so I approach this, and I think, in step with our allies, with a certain respect for what he's doing, and thus we want to try to meet him on some of the areas where he needs help. I'm thinking of a few suggestions I had in the economic area. But I also believe that the West must remain strong and together and try to be helpful where we can in a united way, but not be imprudent. . . .
 
The Moments of Tension
 
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned earlier that there was some tension during the meetings and earlier, to reporters you had said that there was no personal rancor. Could you outline the moments of tension or tell us a little bit about the moments when you felt there was tension between you and the Soviet leader?
 
A. . . . We have a big difference on how we look at Central America. And I would like to see him use his influence with Mr. Castro, and if he's got any left, with Mr. Ortega, to facilitate democratic change in the Western Hemisphere. . . . So when you get into a subject like that, where he may have a different formula, it's a little more concentrated than when you're clicking off agreements in some areas.
 
Gorbachev and the GATT
 
Q. Mr. President, in the last two weeks of June, Mr. Gorbachev will be in the U.S.A. for the summit. The very beginning of July the G-7 will be meeting in Houston. Now you said in Malta that you wanted to help steward or to help steer the Soviet Union into the global economy. Is there a prospect that Mr. Gorbachev might stay on for the G-7 summit? . . .
 
A. The answer is, I don't think so. Put it this way, two chances: slim and none for that - for that particular meeting. Nor did he request to be included in that particular meeting. But we're in times of rapid change and we'll see how things move forward in terms of having a common subject to discuss.
You see, we've got to - got to understand his dilemma. They have not had a market economy, they have not had the privatization that is - that joins the G-7 together. It's different. And so what I have proposed . . . is that we work with them in observer status in the GATT eventually, as soon as the Uruguay Round is over. Do more for him to do more with O.E.C.D. It is important that not just the Soviet Union but other countries in Eastern Europe understand the market economies, understand the dynamism of the economic systems that join those seven countries. So I don't think it's likely that, you know, that he would hang around Houston waiting for the next meeting. . . .
 
More Swords and Plowshares
 
Q. Mr. President, you stepped aside on a question about the ''peace dividend'' and said that you've got a terrible Gramm-Rudman problem next year. As you look at the changes in Europe and the possibilities of further defense cuts, do you expect any time in your first term to have a dividend, a ''peace dividend'' to apply to some of the economic and social problems at home? And when would you expect that?
 
A. That's an awful tough question to answer about any time. I would think it would be extraordinarily difficult because of the -of the - not only the enormity of the Gramm-Rudman - the difficulty of reaching the Gramm-Rudman target this year, but what follows on. . . . There just isn't a lot of quote excess money unquote floating around there.
 
Q. Not for the foreseeable future, not for the rest of your first term?
 
A. Well, look at the Gramm-Rudman targets that face us. I don't want to hold out to those that want to rush out and spend a lot more money the hope that that is going to happen. We've got some tremendous economic problems that have to be solved. Because the best answer to helping people . . . is to have a job. And the best way to have the climate for a job is to have a sound economy. And to our foreign friends here, I'd say one of the things that would be the best guarantee of that would be to get our Federal deficits down. It would also help us with investment. . . . I had a letter from a distinguished senator before I left, because he had read about possible defense cuts, a reduction in the defense budget, saying take that money and spend it for a cause that he felt was very worthy. And I had to write him back and say, ''Look, that isn't the way it's going to work.'' That isn't the way it's going to work.
 
Q. Chairman Gorbachev said yesterday that you and he agreed in your talks that the world - that the Malta meeting marked the end of the epoch of the Cold War and entering a new period. Do you agree with him that the Cold War is over?
 
A. Carl, let me tell you something. We're fooling with semantics here. I don't want to give you a headline. I've told you the areas where I think we have progress. Why do we resort to these code words that send different signals to different people? I'm not going to answer. I can--
 
Q. (Inaudible)
 
A. Well, good. He can speak for himself very - in a very eloquent way. But in terms of if you want me to define it - is the Cold War the same - I mean, is it raging like it was before in the times of the Berlin Blockade? Absolutely not. Things have moved dramatically. But if I signal to you there's no Cold War, then you'll say, ''Well, what are you doing with troops in Europe?'' I mean, come on! . . .
 
Q. Mr. President, what is your reaction to Chairman Gorbachev's proposal that NATO and the Warsaw Pact should not remain yet military alliances, but rather become military-political alliances, and later on just political alliances? Can you envisage in the future any form of cooperation between the two alliances?
 
A. Well, I can see an economic interaction. And I hope that NATO will, along with the E.C. and along with O.E.C.D. and these other areas, will take more of an active East-West role in the economy, in helping each other in terms of systems. But he did not press that point with me at all. I think he envisions an active U.S. presence in Europe, in one way or another. . . .
 
High-Seas Machismo
 
Q. Mr. President, after five hours of talks on Saturday, despite extremely treacherous seas, and you even had trouble getting to the talks, you got back in your launch and went back to your ship. Mr. President, why did you do that? And--
 
A. Because I wanted to go back in time to receive him for dinner.
 
Q. Didn't you understand you were risking the summit, number one? And number two, what do you think Gorbachev thinks of your judgment?
 
A. Maureen, you've been to Maine. Don't tell me that that little chop was - was risking anything. Frankly, I haven't had that much fun in a long time . . . But we didn't miss a beat. In fact, we had a very relaxed evening out there, and then showed up and we got eight hours of talks in. . . . I didn't feel there was any risk in getting into a little safe launch like that and going back out to the ship. It was sheer pleasure, really.
 
Q. And it was hot-dogging?
 
A. Hot-dogging? No. Well, you know, these charismatic, macho, visionary guys - they'll do anything. . . .
 
Nicaragua
 
Q. Mr. President, a few moments ago, you questioned whether Gorbachev had any influence at all over Daniel Ortega. Yet in his news conference yesterday, Chairman Gorbachev indicated that there may be an opportunity now for peace in the region. Did he indicate to you in any way whether, one, he had any control over Ortega, or, two, whether there was something in the works that may lead to some kind of peaceful political--
 
A. No, he didn't, but I think - he didn't indicate whether he had any control over him. What he did indicate was that there were going to be free elections. And I told him, that's fine to have those free elections, but they've got to be fair. You have to have access from - for the minorities to - minority parties and the opposition party, the UNO, to get in there and participate, a full access. And so we had a little discussion of that. But that was about it.
 
Q. To follow up, if he indicated there would be free elections, that in turn would indicate that he does in fact maintain some sort of influence on Ortega. And then wouldn't you hold him further responsible to stop that flow of arms in El Salvador?
 
A. Well, I'm not sure that - I don't see quite the logic, that if he says there's going to be a free election that means he controls them. I'm unclear on your--
 
Q. How could he - how could he assure you that there would be free elections?
 
A. I don't - oh, excuse me - I don't think he assured me there was. He just says free elections are scheduled. And I told him how important we felt it was that they go forward.
I am told that our Congressional delegation, made up of some who've been rather generous in their comments about what the Sandinistas were about, or at least were less than supportive historically for the contras, were on this delegation, and that the delegation was denied the right to come in and take a look. And I told him this is counterproductive. This doesn't help. And so - but I don't want to imply from that, that he can - he can just snap his fingers and have Mr. Ortega - I think he was - do what he said.
I think he was impressed - I may be wrong, but I - I think he was impressed by the message from Oscar Arias. And I asked Arias if it was O.K. to tell him of the call, and he said, ''Yes, I hope you will.'' So when I said this man, this Nobel Prize winner - prize winner down there - who - with whom we've had some differences, though normally we're in pretty good sync - appeals to you, ''Use your influence to, you know, stop the export of revolution,'' it may have made an impact.

GRAPHIC: photo of President Bush and James A. Baker 3d (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: CSC AUSTRALIA PTY LTD (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR TRANSCRIPTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (53%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



124 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE SUMMIT;
Soviet Sway in Cuba and Nicaragua Called Slight

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Experts on Central America said today that the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, would have difficulty stopping the flow of arms through Cuba and Nicaragua to Salvadoran guerrillas even if he made assiduous efforts, as President Bush has demanded.
But they said Mr. Gorbachev could do much more than he has done to persuade Havana and Managua to stop the flow of weapons. American officials said Moscow should have substantial influence over what Cuba does because it provides Havana with aid and subsidies worth $4 billion to $6 billion a year.
President Fidel Castro of Cuba has been asserting his independence of Moscow, and there are tensions between him and Mr. Gorbachev over many issues, including the merits of perestroika, Mr. Gorbachev's program of economic and political restructuring. 
''Theoretically the Soviets could cut off'' the flow of arms from Cuba into Central America, but ''practically they can't,'' said Viron P. Vaky, a former Ambassador to Costa Rica, Colombia and Venezuela. He drew an analogy to the United States' relationship with Israel, noting that Washington could not govern Israeli behavior even though it provides $3 billion a year in aid to Israel.
 
'Lean Even Harder'
Central America was the major irritant between Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev when they met in Malta over the weekend. Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d said, ''The Soviet Union has told us that they are leaning on Nicaragua and Cuba not to send weapons'' to the Salvadoran guerrillas. ''But that has not worked,'' he said. ''So we are encouraging them to lean even harder.''
The Bush Administration contends that Moscow has more influence with Havana and Managua than it acknowledges. ''It's not acceptable to us for the Soviets to make a routine or perfunctory inquiry,'' a State Department official said today. ''The Soviet Union may have to raise its voice to get a positive result.''
But Senator Christopher J. Dodd, chairman of the Foreign Relations subcommittee on Latin America, said, ''I am not sure Mr. Gorbachev is any great hero in Havana or Managua'' or in the mountain camps of the Salvadoran guerrillas.
''The old hard-line confrontational rigid ideologues don't take any great comfort in a man who sits back and encourages the recent events in Poland, Hungary and East Germany,'' said Mr. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat. ''He may be seen as something of a traitor to the hard-liners.''
 
'Looking the Other Way'
Cuba has huge stocks of weapons, built up in part for its large ''people's militia,'' now supplemented with arms brought home by Cuban troops returning from Angola, American officials said. So it would appear that Mr. Castro could continue arming the Sandinistas and the Salvadoran rebels whatever Mr. Gorbachev might advise.
Otto J. Reich, who served as Ambassador to Venezuela from June 1986 to July of this year, said: ''Castro is trying to ruin the superpower relationship emerging from the last two summit meetings. He's a convinced ideologue, and the demise of Marxist-Leninist ideology is not in his interest. He is doing what he can, from his small island in the Caribbean, to stop the rapprochement between the superpowers.''
American officials said the Soviets had probably talked to Cuba about its support for the Salvadoran guerrillas, but the United States doubts the Soviets have exerted much influence on Cuba to curtail arms shipments. ''The Soviets are looking the other way,'' said Mr. Reich. Administration officials expressed similar views.
Wayne S. Smith, who served as head of the United States Interests Section in Havana from 1979 to 1982, said that if Moscow urged Cuba to stop arms shipments to Central America, ''the Cubans might or might not take that advice.'' Likewise, he said, there is no guarantee that Nicaragua would follow such advice.
 
'No Reason Not to Talk'
''The Cubans have recently sent a message to the United States saying they would be willing to sit down and discuss the arms supply question,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I see no reason not to talk to the Cubans. We won't solve all this by talking just to the Soviets.''
A light plane carrying two-dozen antiaircraft missiles crashed in southeastern El Salvador on Nov. 25. American officials say that evidence recovered at the scene indicates that the flight originated in Nicaragua and was carrying arms destined for the Salvadoran guerrillas.
The United States has been unwilling to say where the missiles were manufactured. Initially, Salvadoran officials said they were Soviet-made. But last week a State Department spokesman said they ''were not Soviet-made.''
''Based on our analysis of the evidence,'' he said, ''we believe they were supplied by a regime with close military logistical connections with the Soviet Union.'' He did not specify the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); NICARAGUA (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); COSTA RICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); GERMANY (51%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EL SALVADOR; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); CUBA; NICARAGUA; CENTRAL AMERICA

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); MOUNTAINS (60%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; DODD, CHRISTOPHER S (SEN); PEAR, ROBERT CHRISTOPHER DODD (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 



125 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE SUMMIT;
President Thinks He Struck The Right Balance at Malta

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Dec. 4

 BODY:
President Bush ended the Malta summit talks confident that he had shown global leadership while not angering a Western alliance resistant to American dominance in world affairs, Administration officials said today.
In the Administration's view, a senior official said, Mr. Bush could claim credit for opening the way to improvements in economic relations and arms control with the Soviets, even though those changes were seen as largely inevitable and likely to provide more benefit than cost to the United States.
In his two days of talks with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union, officials said, Mr. Bush was able to offer Mr. Gorbachev trade concessions and assurances of technical support without committing American money to an uncertain economic future in the Soviet Union.
On the arms control front, they said Mr. Bush's proposals answered complaints that the United States was slipping from the leadership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. But at the same time they said the President was careful not to try to carve out a new European map or undertake the kind of unilateral, impromptu arms control negotiations that so alarmed Western Europe when President Reagan met with Mr. Gorbachev in Reykjavik, Iceland, in 1986. 
 
'To Demonstrate Leadership'
''We're standing here at the seat of NATO, and it's clear they perceive that the President of the United States has done what they fundamentally want the President of the United States to do: to demonstrate leadership in an international environment,'' a senior official said after Mr. Bush briefed his allies on the Malta meetings.
''They like the President to demonstrate a sense of direction,'' the official said. ''But they definitely don't like the President jumping out too far too fast.''
Mr. Bush repeatedly said before going to Malta that he was determined not to become engaged in detailed arms control negotiations. But part of the credit for avoiding a repetition of the Reykjavik situation must go to Mr. Gorbachev, who seemed equally aware of the new pressures on the superpowers from their own alliances and did not set any tripwires for the American President.
Mr. Bush was able to point to Mr. Gorbachev's agreement to speed the negotiations on a treaty to reduce strategic arms and on conventional weapons in Europe. But they were both able to say to their allies that they had not tried to go too far beyond those frameworks. The delicacy of this issue seemed apparent in the relative lack of emphasis that Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev have given to Eastern Europe in their public statements.
 
In Defense of NATO
Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev were careful to stress that they were not calling for the eventual dissolution of the NATO and Warsaw Pact alliances. Administration officials said before the Malta talks that they were keenly aware that NATO provides the United States with a foothold in a Western Europe that is becoming increasingly integrated economically.
''The United States must stay involved,'' Mr. Bush said at a news conference here. ''What we don't want to do is send the signal of decoupling, the decoupling of the United States and Canada from NATO at this critical time.'' Mr. Gorbachev, he said, ''understood that.''
During the summit meeting, Mr. Bush seemed to take a considerably milder tone toward Soviet behavior in regional conflicts than was struck by Mr. Reagan and even by some Administration officials before they went to Malta.
A senior official said today that the United States remains deeply concerned about Soviet support for Nicaragua and about arms shipments to the leftist rebels in El Salvador, which Washington says are being provided by the Sandinista Government in Managua. But he said American officials believe that they have much to gain from trying to work with the Soviet Union on Middle Eastern, African, Asian and even Central American issues.
This explains Mr. Bush's purpose in trying to separate American attitudes toward the Sandinistas from the Soviet-American relationship by saying the Nicaraguans had lied to Moscow about arms shipments to El Salvador.
 
'Work in Common Cause'
''If you can diminish tensions, there are a lot of issues in which the United States and Soviet Union can work in common cause and draw benefit,'' an American official said. ''Soviet behavior has already led to results in some places that are very much in the interest of diminshing conflict.''
On economic issues, Administration officials said Mr. Bush had given Mr. Gorbachev two important offers that he had long sought: American support for Soviet observer status in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and a promise to consider lifting American trade restrictions.
Neither one will cost the United States money, Administration officials said. At the same time, they argued, the White House stands to gain from the proposals.
Mr. Bush's suggestion satisfies complaints from the Soviet Union, Western Europe and even back home that he has not done enough to capitalize on the economic evolution in Europe. In addition, an American official said, the United States believes it is encouraging the Soviets ''to make adjustments that we have been seeking for a long time.''
Soviet-American economic cooperation will allow the United States to remain more closely engaged with the Soviets, the Americans argued.
''If through your economic proposals and the institutionalization of a human rights agenda, you can build a more pluralistic Soviet Union, that helps make the changes in the Soviet Union less easy to reverse,'' an official said. ''It also makes for a more transparent Soviet Union, so you have a beter sense of whether there are really changes.''
 
Personal Stake for Bush
There was an intensely personal stake for Mr. Bush in the Malta summit. He demonstrated that he was able to deal with Mr. Gorbachev smoothly and effectively and tried to dispel the notion that he was missing opportunities.
''He took my measure, and I took his, and we both feel more comfortable about our common objectives,'' Mr. Bush said.
The President retained some of his characteristic reserve today, declining to answer a question about whether, like Mr. Gorbachev, he now considers the cold war to be over. ''I don't want to give you a headline,'' he said.
But he seemed clearly sensitive to the criticism that he has been too timid and lacking in a world vision. Asked why he had insisted on staying aboard his warship, the cruiser Belknap, during the summit despite a powerful gale, Mr. Bush replied: ''Well, you know these charismatic, macho, visionary guys. They'll do anything.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); ICELAND (93%); MALTA (90%); BELGIUM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

CITY: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (72%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR US PRESIDENTS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



126 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE SUMMIT;
Soviets Say Gorbachev Gave Bush a Spy Map of U.S. Navy

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The chief Soviet spokesman said today that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev was so emphatic in raising the issue of naval disarmament at the Malta summit talks that he handed President Bush a classified map of K.G.B. intelligence on American fleet movements and installations of particular concern.
Invoking the memory of President Bush stranded aboard a naval cruiser ''impotent against the rough seas,'' the spokesman, Gennadi I. Gerasimov, emphasized at a briefing that Mr. Gorbachev would continue to press the naval issue, which President Bush firmly rebuffed at the weekend meeting.
''The American President was stuck on his ship, which only proves our point that you don't really need all these navies,'' Mr. Gerasimov declared in the briefing, conducted on the flight home from Malta.
Responding to reporters' questions, the Soviet spokesman said President Bush had raised the issue of the Soviet Union re-establishing diplomatic relations with Israel. ''We have nothing against it,'' Mr. Gerasimov said, ''providing we have progress in a settlement there.'' 
 
Says Baltics Didn't Come Up
In raising issues and offering a score of proposals, President Bush did not mention the Soviet Baltic republics, Mr. Gerasimov said. The United States still does not recognize the republics' incorporation into the Soviet Union as legal, and some specialists anticipated that Mr. Bush might press the issue at the summit talks. ''Of course not,'' Mr. Gerasimov said, when asked whether the topic was mentioned.
The spokesman said that the Soviet Government was already pursuing one of the issues raised by Mr. Bush, the need for disclosure of military budget and weapons production figures. ''The Soviet Union is preparing to publish this kind of information,'' he said.
While hailing the summit meeting as a constructive and friendly ''threshhold'' to a new era in Soviet-American relations, Mr. Gerasimov could not resist sarcasm at times.
Sitting in the front cabin of the returning press plane and wearing a ''Malta to Yalta'' T-shirt, Mr. Gerasimov repeatedly invoked the image of an American president tossed by the seas, and of the summit haven provided by Soviet officials aboard their luxury liner, the Maxim Gorky.
 
A Victory in Imagery
He made it clear that Soviet officials were savoring something of an imagery victory, and he was similarly sarcastic in asserting that the issue of Soviet human rights, until lately a cause of worldwide criticism, had become ''a two-way street.''
In comparison with Mr. Bush''s presentation of an ''extremely short list'' of complaints about Soviet citizens separated unwillingly from loved ones abroad, Mr. Gerasimov said, the Moscow Government had ''a very long list of Soviet citizens who cannot go to the United States and cannot get a visa.''
He sardonically suggested that perhaps the Soviet Parliament should adopt an ''Ivanov-Petrov amendment,'' similar to the Jackson-Vanik amendment approved by the Congress, and thus help ''all those Soviets who want to go the United States.'' The Jackson-Vanik amendment mandates trade restrictions on the Soviet Union because of human rights abuses.
Mr. Gerasimov did not mention that while the United States is processing record numbers of Soviet visa and emigration applicants, it has had to set firm limits as larger numbers of Soviet citizens sought to leave. A more liberal climate under Mr. Gorbachev has emboldened many to come forward as the Soviet economy fails to improve.
 
'Not a Single Quarrel'
Mr. Gerasimov hailed the tone of the eight hours of summit talks as ''something of a continuation of an interrupted conversation'' between serious leaders, with ''not a single quarrel.''
''There was a lot of progress and concrete things were discussed,'' he said. ''I think the Malta meeting will give impetus to the negotiations in Vienna,'' he added, referring to the talks on reductions in conventional forces.
He said that Mr. Gorbachev had the naval intelligence map ready to hand to the President Bush ''to prove we feel a little insecure being surrounded by all these ships and military bases.'' He said that Mr. Bush promised to look it over with his own experts.
On the resumption of diplomatic ties with Israel, Mr. Gerasimov emphasized the need for a Middle East settlement involving several nations. The Americans are ''destined to fail,'' he said, if ''they go it alone'' without a joint approach involving the Soviet Union.
''If Mr. Shamir is not warming, then we are not warming,'' he said, referring to the Israeli Prime Minister.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); BALTIC STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UKRAINE (78%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;KGB (SOVIET SECURITY POLICE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); ISRAEL, STATE OF

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; NAVIES; CLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NAVIES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); CRUISES (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; GERASIMOV, GENNADI I; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 



127 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Criminal Inquiry Is Opened Into Ex-H.U.D. Chief's Acts

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The Justice Department announced today that it had opened a formal criminal inquiry to determine whether a special prosecutor should investigate allegations of perjury and conspiracy against former Housing Secretary Samuel R. Pierce Jr. The announcement came as New York State prosecutors released documents showing that a longtime friend of Mr. Pierce, Samuel P. Singletary, was under indictment on larceny charges when his consulting firm received a $350,000 development grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development in 1985.
Only weeks after the H.U.D. grant was formally approved, records show, Mr. Singletary pleaded guilty to stealing New York State funds from a job-training program he had once run in Westchester County. Prosecutors said the theft totaled $17,000. 
A former H.U.D. offical said today that the department was aware of the charges against Mr. Singletary when the grant was awarded. One of Mr. Pierce's lawyers said today that his client had no recollection of the grant to Mr. Singletary.
 
Three Months to Decide
The decision by the Justice Department to open what is known as a preliminary investigation was announced by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh. Under Federal ethics laws, Mr. Thornburgh now has three months to determine whether there is sufficient evidence of criminal wrongdoing to warrant appointment of a special prosecutor, formally known as an independent counsel.
Mr. Thornburgh's announcement came in response to a Nov. 2 request from 19 members of the House Judiciary Committee, who said in a letter that evidence gathered by Congressional investigators showed that Mr. Pierce ''may be implicated in a conspiracy to defraud the United States.''
Mr. Pierce is at the center of allegations that, in his eight years as President Ronald Reagan's Housing Secretary, H.U.D. awarded billions of dollars in housing grants to prominent Republicans and close friends, regardless of merit.
Democrats responded favorably to Mr. Thornburgh's announcement. ''I'm pleased that the Attorney General has announced that he's taking the next step towards appointment of an independent counsel,'' said Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat. ''This investigation is the fairest and most thorough way to get answers to questions that are not going away.''
 
'Look at This More Closely'
In his announcement today, Mr. Thornburgh did not explain his reasons for opening the investigation of Mr. Pierce. But a senior Justice Department official, who spoke on condition that he not be named, said Mr. Thornburgh had rejected a recommendation from prosecutors in the department that the investigation of Mr. Pierce be shut down for lack of evidence.
''The Attorney General concluded that it was simply imprudent to close the matter at this time,'' the official said. ''People are uncovering things on an almost daily basis, and the Attorney General feels it prudent to take more time and to look at this more closely.''
One of Mr. Pierce's lawyers, Paul L. Perito, said in an interview that ''given the very low threshold of the statute, it is not surprising that the Department of Justice's careful lawyers would want to take the entire 90 days to investigate.'' He added, ''We're very secure that at the conclusion of that period, a decision will be made not to apply to the court for the appointment of an independent counsel.''
 
Singletary Indictment
The Democratic lawmakers have also questioned whether Mr. Pierce committed perjury when he testified before a House panel last May and indicated that he had not ordered H.U.D. aides to award housing grants for political reasons. ''I did not have hands on,'' Mr. Pierce said of his management of the department.
In the case of Mr. Singletary, prosecutors in Westchester County disclosed today that he was indicted there in July 1985 on charges of grand larceny and falsifying business records.
He was accused of stealing about $17,000 by submitting vouchers to the New York State Labor Department claiming reimbursement for false expeditures in providing job training for unemployed youths, Frank Castaldi, the chief of the frauds bureau in the Westchester County District Attorney's office.
 
Discretionary Funds
At the time of the indictment, H.U.D. was weighing whether to provide the $350,000 grant to Mr. Singletary's consulting concern, the Center for Resource Development, for projects designed to lure private development to two New Jersey cities.
A former senior H.U.D. official who asked not to be named said that at least some Federal housing officials in Washington were aware of the criminal charges at the time, but that the grant had been approved anyway.
A former aide to Mr. Pierce, DuBois L. Gilliam, has said in interviews that he was ordered by Mr. Pierce to assist Mr. Singletary with the $350,000 grant, and that it was provided under one of two large discretionary funds under Mr. Pierce's control.
Mr. Singletary, a Republican, helped direct Mr. Pierce's unsuccessful campaigns in 1959 and 1960 for election as a Manhattan judge.
 
Restitution of $17,000
According to H.U.D. officials, the grant to the Center for Resource Development was approved by Mr. Gilliam in August 1985. Two months later, on Oct. 22, Mr. Singletary pleaded guilty to one count of grant larceny in a plea agreement and was sentenced to five years' probation and restitution of about $17,000.
Mr. Perito, Mr. Pierce's lawyer, said today that his client had ''no specific recollection'' of the grant to Mr. Singletary.
Asked if Mr. Pierce would have awarded the grant despite the Westchester County indictment, Mr. Perito indicated that the criminal charges might not have provided enough reason to deny the grant. ''Even if Mr. Pierce was aware of the charges when he met with Mr. Singletary, fairness and presumption of innocence would have been applicable,'' the lawyer said.
Mr. Singletary has denied using improper influence with Mr. Pierce to obtain the grant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF; JUSTICE, DEPARTMENT OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PERJURY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; CONSPIRACY, CRIMINAL; ETHICS HOUSING AUTHORITIES (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); ETHICS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CITIES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); 

PERSON: PIERCE, SAMUEL R JR; SINGLETARY, SAMUEL R; THORNBURGH, RICHARD L (ATTY GEN); SHENON, PHILIP CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); RONALD REAGAN (50%); 



128 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: To Shattered City and Its Merchants, Earthquake Proves an Opportunity

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTA CRUZ, Calif., Dec. 1

 BODY:
It has been a surprisingly cheerful month for the merchants of Santa Cruz. Selling from big tents because the Oct. 17 earthquake leveled their downtown shopping mall, many say that the day after Thanksgiving this year was their best ever and that sales have remained strong since.
Now the business owners hope they can harness the good feelings that have flowed from the cooperative effort to rebound from the quake. In a city where developers and politicians have been at odds for years, the business interests hope to rebuild the mall in record time. 
For the moment, merchants and landowners are apprehensive as they look forward to filling the rubble-strewn lots that now dominate downtown and to rebuilding the Pacific Garden Mall. A tree-lined street of turn-of-the-century buildings, the mall has spurred the economic regeneration of downtown Santa Cruz since its completion 20 years ago.
Some fear that the redevelopment of the mall will become mired in an endless planning process, a victim of a virtual no-growth policy that has resulted from the difficulty of getting building permits.
Louis E. Rittenhouse, president of the Downtown Association, a group of merchants and landowners, said he realized the night after the quake that ''the disaster was minor compared to the chaos that was possible once this became a redevelopment site.'' His family, which arrived in Santa Cruz a century ago, owned five buildings on the mall; four of them fell in the quake.
 
Without Development, 'No Future'
To overcome the legacy of hostility to development in this coastal city 90 miles south of San Francisco, Mr. Rittenhouse and others are putting together a public and private redevelopment foundation that will include elected officials, merchants, landowners and neighborhood groups. Modeling its efforts on redevelopment projects in Baltimore, in Columbus, Ohio, and in Portland, Ore., this group believes that it can accelerate the planning process by reaching a consensus on the mall's future.
''The earthquake opened up the power structure,'' said William Rubel, chairman of the Downtown Commission, a group that advises the City Council. ''The disaster made people work together, and now we intend to keep working together.''
Mr. Rubel, whose commission helped bring the tents to the fallen mall, said he hoped the earthquake had permanently changed local politics. ''Now, development is on the agenda,'' he said. ''There really is no future for anyone without development.''
Mr. Rubel said the foundation would take its strength from a diverse board of 30 to 40 citizens who would look for consensus among the city's antagonistic camps.
Mayor Mardi Wormhoudt agreed. While the foundation's role will be advisory, she said, ''if it does its job well, the recommendations it comes up with will be compelling and will be hard for anyone in the city to resist.''
To many merchants and landowners, the recovery from the quake is an opportunity to address longstanding problems. A chronic parking shortage had prompted many large businesses, including every downtown bank, to leave the area. And while the mall was full, it was still underused because the second and third floors of the old buildings had fallen into disrepair. Merchants say they and their shoppers had daily confrontations with increasingly aggressive panhandlers who loitered at the mall.
 
A Place to Live, Too
Now they say a redeveloped mall can address these issues. ''For me, it's an exciting possibility, an opportunity to solve a whole lot of problems,'' said Ron Lau, who owned the brick building occupied by Bookshop Santa Cruz. He and others hope to put residential apartments on the upper floors of their new buildings, which they say will provide additional income and make the mall a livelier and safer place at night.
Mr. Lau, who had earthquake insurance and whose tenant, the bookstore, is anxious to move back in, hopes to have a new building finished within 18 months. But for other owners and tenants of the 25 buildings that were destroyed, the future is less certain.
Rents were low on the mall, partly because many of the buildings had little or no debt. New construction loans will drive rents higher, and some people worry that the small local businesses the old mall accommodated will be priced out of the new one.
But town leaders also say the tents, which at first seemed only an expedient solution to a pressing need, may have inspired a vision of the future for these local entrepreneurs in downtown Santa Cruz.
 
'Phoenix Pavilions'
Open and airy, made of cloth and aluminum, the tents have a festive character. Dubbed ''Phoenix Pavilions'' by the Downtown Association, they were rapidly raised by volunteer union labor. Many of them now house several businesses, and because they have no interior walls, shoppers can look into one store while standing in another. Several merchants say the increased exposure has lifted sales far above pre-earthquake levels.
''What do you do about the 800-square-foot small shop?'' said Matthew Thompson, a partner in Thacher and Thompson, a leading architectural firm here. ''I think the Phoenix Pavilions are going to teach us.''
In the meantime, Mr. Rubel of the Downtown Commission is working with local artists to use the empty spaces until construction begins. He plans sculpture gardens, a stage, sound and light shows and painted cloth images of buildings to fill in the gaps. He is also working with the curator of the city museum to place kiosks at each space showing the different buildings that have occupied it over time.
''We are not just coping with a bad situation, but rising above it to do something very attractive,'' Mr. Rubel said. ''This will be the best time for pressing high-quality development, for finding out what is really possible.''

GRAPHIC: photo of merchants operating out of tents on Cedar St. (NYT/Terrence McCarthy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SANTA CRUZ (CALIF)

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RETAILERS (92%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); THANKSGIVING (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (71%); MAYORS (68%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M



129 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices Agree To Hear Case On Water Use

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The Supreme Court agreed today to resolve an intensifying conflict between the Federal Government and the states over regulating the environmental impact of hydroelectric power plants.
The question is whether the Federal Government or the state is entitled to the final word on how much water can be diverted from a free-flowing river to serve the needs of a hydroelectric plant.
The rate at which the plant's operators are required to keep the water flowing is an important element in the consideration of the balance between the environmental impact and the economic benefit of such a plant.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which licenses hydroelectric plants under the Federal Power Act, takes the view that it has the authority to establish the water-flow rate. Under that view, states may not impose requirements on a hydroelectric plant that are stricter than those the Federal agency has chosen to attach to the license. 
 
California Appeals Decision
That position was upheld in a decision earlier this year by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco. California appealed to the Supreme Court, arguing that states must be free to make ''important policy judgments concerning allocation of water among competing public and private needs.''
The Federal Government opposed California's appeal, which was supported by a brief signed by 43 other states. In addition, a group of national environmental organizations filed a brief on California's behalf. The American Public Power Association and the Edison Electric Institute, representing the utility industry, filed a brief urging the Court not to hear the appeal.
The case, California v. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, No. 89-333, involves a 3,000-kilowatt hydroelectric power plant on a tributory of the America River, near Placerville, Calif. In 1983 a development partnership received a Federal license to withdraw water to run power turbines and to return the water to the river about a mile downstream.
The Federal license set a minimum flow rate of 11 to 15 cubic feet per second. But California officials concluded that this would not leave enough water to protect the river's fish. The state set a considerably higher minimum of 30 to 60 cubic feet per second. The partnership, which said the plant could not generate enough power at that level to be economically feasible, then sought and received from the Federal agency a declaration that the state had no authority to set the water rate.
The case requires the Court to interpret Section 27 of the Federal Power Act, which gives the states the right to regulate the use of water for irrigation and for ''municipal or other uses.'' The legal question is whether that ambiguous language also applies to the type of environmental regulation at issue here.
Because Congress has recently established financial incentives for hydroelectric plants, interest in building them has grown rapidly. There are now about 2,000 in operation.
Other action at the Court today included the following: Solicitor General's Advice The Justices usually pay close attention to the advice they get from the Solicitor General's office, which represents the Federal Government in the Supreme Court.
But today was a notably unsuccessful one for that office. Not only did the Court accept two appeals over the Government's opposition, including the California water case, but it also turned down one of the Government's own appeals.
The other case the Court accepted was also an environmental case, concerning enforcement of the Clean Air Act. When a state submits a revised plan to comply with the act's requirements, the Environmental Protection Agency has four months to review the plan and decide whether it is acceptable. But the agency often misses the four-month deadline, and lower courts have disagreed over whether the E.P.A. can then continue enforcing the old state plan before it has acted on the revisions.
The United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, in Boston, ruled in favor of the agency, refusing to block it from enforcing emission limits in Massachusetts after it missed the deadline for approving a revised state clean air plan. The case was brought by General Motors, which operates an assembly line in Framingham, Mass., and which challenged the Federal agency's effort to force it to comply with the old plan.
General Motors appealed to the Supreme Court (G.M. v. U.S., No. 89-369), arguing that the four-month deadline was absolute and that the penalty for the agency's failure to meet it should be loss of its enforcement authority.
 
Military Liability
The Court refused to hear a Government appeal from a ruling that the Government could be sued for accidental injuries to a civilian on a military base that were caused by the actions of off-duty service members.
Two Navy men were trying to repair a car at the Point Mugu Naval Base in California when flaming gasoline shot out and injured a child. The child's family sued under the Federal Tort Claims Act, which provides damages for injuries caused by Government employees acting ''within the scope'' of their employment.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that the Government was liable because the sailors had a continuing duty to adhere to the base's fire regulations even when they were off duty. In its appeal, U.S. v. Washington, No. 89-482, the Government argued that the decision went beyond the law, turning the Untied States ''into a virtual insurer of the conduct of members of the service on military bases.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (54%); AMERICAN PUBLIC POWER ASSOCIATION (54%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (54%); AMERICAN PUBLIC POWER ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; STATES (US); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; AIR POLLUTION; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY HYDROELECTRIC POWER (92%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); RIVERS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); WATER RIGHTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); IRRIGATION (64%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



130 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Bush, Talking Like a Leader

 BODY:
Firmly and unambiguously, President Bush said on leaving the Malta summit talks what his Administration has needed to say with one voice: ''We stand at the threshold of a brand-new era of U.S.-Soviet relations.'' And finally, he demonstrated that he understands the new era's opportunities by sending three strong messages on the Soviet economy, arms control and regional conflicts.
On Sunday in Malta Mr. Bush sent the most important possible message to the Soviet people: The U.S. stands ready to help make Mikhail Gorbachev's economic reforms work, and won't simply sit on the sidelines to gloat or cheer. 
This message tells a people who sorely need encouragement that the West will help them with trade and credits through the next trying years. That, in turn, strengthens Mr. Gorbachev's hand against growing unhappiness with his reforms.
Then yesterday in Brussels, Mr. Bush conveyed the right message to his own somewhat divided Administration: ''I, the President of the United States, will kick our bureaucracy and push it as fast as I possibly can'' on arms control. That means he wants no more foot-dragging on reaching mutual compromises, particularly in slashing strategic nuclear arms. Both the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. need cuts in nuclear and conventional forces to release resources and repair economies burdened by the years of cold war.
In recent hours Mr. Bush has also conveyed appropriate warnings about warfare in Central America. Soviet arms, with or without Moscow's knowledge, continue to make their way into rebel hands in El Salvador, and Mr. Bush rightly raised the issue at Malta with Mr. Gorbachev. They should also be talking about their other proxy wars, in Afghanistan, Cambodia and elsewhere. Regional flareups could still singe the new cooperative efforts in Europe.
Mr. Bush's first two messages don't sit well with American conservatives who can't seem to get their bearings without Godless commies to kick around. They're already charging that the President is giving away the store. They complain, for instance, that he will weaken the U.S. nuclear deterrent before bringing about equality in European conventional forces.
But if Moscow can be persuaded to cut its strategic forces in half for much lesser American cuts, that makes eminent sense even without agreement on Europe. And in any event, Mr. Bush is simply directing that both treaties be finished in time for the next summit meeting in June. Some conservatives also criticize him for offering economic help without getting pledges from Moscow on military restraint. What better demonstration of restraint could there be than yesterday's Warsaw Pact statement condemning the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968?
Mr. Bush need not fear these gripes and moans. In the last few days, he's finally brought his leadership into focus. ''What we've got to do is be sure,'' he said yesterday, ''that we conduct ourselves in such a way that the changes, the political reforms, can keep going forward'' in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. Finally, that's a leader talking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALTA (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



131 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
Plenty Of Credit

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

 BODY:
No doubt many Americans do not yet believe ''the cold war is over,'' just because Presidents Bush and Gorbachev say it is. But even skeptics must concede that both sides have come a long way from the depths of dangerous hostility reached in the 50's, at the time of the Cuban missile crisis or in the early years of the Reagan Administration.
In fact, some hard-line anti-Communists who used to scoff at the idea of a less-threatening Soviet Union now attribute the improved superpower relationship to Mr. Reagan's arms buildup and to their own support for it. This claim can't be entirely disputed; even the Strategic Defense Initiative, properly scorned by most American scientific and arms-control authorities, seemed to impress the Soviets as a chal-lenge that they might not be able to meet. 
But to see the immense changes now taking place as a mere backdown by Moscow against U.S. might ignores, for one thing, the internal economic, political and structural problems that had been rising within the Soviet Union as the Communist system failed. It ignores, too, the willingness of Mr. Gorbachev to face up to these problems and to try to deal with them.
The Reagan arms buildup no doubt speeded reform within the Soviet Union, but sooner or later internal Soviet problems would have forced some Soviet leader to adopt a similar policy. Once perestroika began in the U.S.S.R., change was inevitable in Eastern Europe, where the Communist satellites also were failing - although virtually no one foresaw how swiftly the regimes symbolized by the Berlin wall would come tumbling down.
Mr. Gorbachev did not just let the transformation happen. He could hardly have forced Eastern Europe to retain a system he was trying to reform within the Soviet Union; nor could he have maintained his credibility in the West by using tanks. But when on Aug. 22, in a telephone call to Warsaw, he specifically cleared the way for a Solidarity government in Poland, he sent a clear signal that reverberated throughout Eastern Europe; later, he told Czech Commu-nists to get in line with a reform movement he knew they could not stop.
Nor was Ronald Reagan's arms buildup - more costly than effective - his only contribution to recent remarkable events. Hard-liners do not like to remember that in his second term, Mr. Reagan embraced Mr. Gorbachev, entered into the I.N.F. treaty curbing medium-range missiles and linked arms with the Soviet leader in Red Square and at the Statue of Liberty. For his part, Mr. Gorbachev confessed that the Krasnoyarsk radar was a treaty violation, and apologized for the invasions of Czechoslovakia in 1968 and Afghanistan in 1979. So both leaders share credit for what, after Malta, can reasonably be called the end of the cold war.
To the extent U.S. politics and policy did precipitate this welcome development, hard-liners' attempts to take credit are more than a little exaggerated. Wasn't it they who insisted that Communist regimes could never change, that Mr. Gorbachev would not be permitted by his own party to effect reforms, that he might even be a trickster trying to lure the U.S. into letting down its guard?
Hard-liners insisted, too, that the United States should not help perestroika to succeed, that Mr. Gorbachev should be left to struggle alone, and was likely to fall anyway. Some insisted that the Soviets would never let go of their Eastern European shield, and that Mr. Gorbachev could not be trusted unless he proved himself by letting the Berlin wall come down.
Many hard-liners who supported the arms buildup opposed arms control measures, even the I.N.F. treaty, which actually took weapons out of arsenals on both sides. Hard-liners consistently resisted other efforts to improve relations with the Soviets, and not a few preached the nightmare doctrine of Armageddon - an ultimate military showdown between what they regarded as the forces of good and the forces of evil.
If the West, led by the United States, outlasted the Communist powers in the postwar years, its stance was largely devised by Harry Truman, George Marshall, Dean Acheson, Dwight Eisenhower and others pilloried at the time by hard-liners. Therefore, as the right wing at last faces political life without the Red issue, Americans need less to hear vainglorious boasts that the hard line brought the Soviets to their knees than to understand that for the promising new world we face, there's plenty of credit to go around.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (86%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); MALTA (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: STRATEGIC DEFENSE SYSTEMS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); POLITICS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM RONALD REAGAN (89%); 



132 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Bush Wasn't Tough Enough

BYLINE: By Kenneth L. Adelman; Kenneth L. Adelman was director of the Arms Control and Disaramament Agency from 1983 to 1987.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The ''no surprises'' summit meeting was surprising in its lack of ''new thinking'' about the new world unfolding. This summit smacked of summits of the 1970's, with arms control once again raising the highest expectations.
President Bush and his top advisers are now poised to lunge for the capillaries, as they promise gala summertime summit signings, staff-kicking and deadline-setting for three new major accords this year. Secretary of State James Baker heads off next month to Moscow, where he will dive into SS-18 throw weight and other arms control nitpicks. 
Rather than rework outdated past proposals, the Bush team should push two big-ticket items of grand historical sweep and significance.
The first is the complete removal of Soviet forces from Eastern Europe. This would end the cold war where it began. It need not be reciprocated by all our G.I.s leaving Europe. For sundry reasons, reunification among them, Mikhail Gorbachev may not want all U.S. troops to leave West German soil soon.
The second item to push for is an end to Leonid Brezhnev's legacy of bailouts of Cuba, Nicaragua, Vietnam and Afghanistan, which would save Mr. Gorbachev $10 billion yearly.
Why should Mr. Gorbachev spend gobs of scarce, hard currency to keep these mostly far away Marxist regimes in power when he smiles as Marxists fall next door? Does he really care more about Fidel Castro's fate than about Erich Honecker's?
Besides constituting a major diversion, the arms control hype will yield positive harm at worst and dubious benefit at best.
Take the treaty on strategic arms. Aside from horrendous verification woes (some seemingly insolvable), are persistent doubts about whether the agreement helps U.S. strategic stability.
Before joining the Bush Administration as national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft and the ambassador to the Vienna arms talks, R. James Woolsey, wrote that Start could push the U.S. into ''a new kind of triad: vulnerability, wishful thinking, and a hair trigger.'' Not reassuring words, but unfortunately still true.
Or take the conventional-arms accord. While beneficial to NATO when first proposed earlier this year, it has been overtaken by events. If concluded, this accord would legitimize the continued presence in East Europe of some 300,000 Soviet troops beyond the mid-1990's.
This is odd when the Hungarians and Czechs are calling for a complete Soviet troop withdrawal from their countries. Mr. Gorbachev reportedly speaks of removing all his forces in East Europe by the year 2000. So why are we still proposing an accord that legitimizes the Soviet military's presence there indefinitely.
Or take a worldwide ban on chemical weapons. This noble aim is simply unachievable, since verification is impossible.
Mine is not a broadside attack on either arms talks or formal arms accords. But rather than go for agreements without real arms control, without clearly helping security or saving money, we should seek real arms control without agreements.
We should adopt an approach of evolving, parallel policies with the Soviets. Reductions initiated by their side that are below our levels in key categories would be matched by us, and vice-versa. Each side thereby tailors its forces to make them affordable, survivable and sensible.
This is a dynamic approach, one that recognizes rapid changes in Eastern Europe and in economic conditions. The formal number-crunching approach must end in a static formula.
However, formal arms control could reduce one severe threat: the wildfire spread of ballistic missiles. Washington and Moscow could jointly open to all nations the intermediate range nuclear forces treaty's ban on ballistic missiles of a range between 300 to 3,400 miles. This verifiable accord could help prevent more than 15 countries from producing ballistic missiles within a decade.
History is already being kind and gentle to President Bush. It is handing him enormous opportunities to usher in a far safer future.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (87%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE; CUBA; NICARAGUA; VIETNAM; AFGHANISTAN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); COLD WAR (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BREZHNEV, LEONID ILYICH (1906-82); ADELMAN, KENNETH L GEORGE W BUSH (67%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 



133 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
Life Support for Moscow

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
Over the weekend the people of Czechoslovakia and East Germany made it vividly plain that their goal was to eliminate Communist Party rule over their nations - and that they would not rest until they reached it.
Those same days, a few hundred miles away off Malta, President Bush committed the political and economic power of the United States to trying to maintain the rule of the Communist Party in the Soviet Union.
That is the essential meaning and historic irony of Malta. The United States has decided to try to halt or at least delay the great international revolution against Communism in one country - the very country that was the birthplace of Communist tyranny and has suffered most from it for 70 years. 
Until Malta, there was a strong and growing possibility the monopoly of Communist Party power in the Soviet Union would end soon, a year or two, and Mr. Gorbachev would be forced to accept the sharing of political power essential to a free democracy.
If he continued to refuse, he would be swept away by public fury against the Communist Party - as have the Communist Party rulers of the Eastern European nations now surging to freedom.
As long as the Communist Party rules alone, commanding all the government and military power of the Soviet Union, it will try to control reforms to maintain its position. Only when that monopoly ceases can the world be sure that there will be no reversal and that days of police power will not return.
Malta did not end the possibility of the overthrow or surrender of the Soviet Communist Party. The whole system is so rotted with corruption by its very nature that it cannot indefinitely be saved. No, not even by the American investments Mr. Bush now proposes be guaranteed by the American taxpayer.
But some of the Soviet citizens who years ago forecast the Soviet political and economic collapse now believe sorrowfully that Malta can delay the end of Communist power in the Soviet Union.
Mr. Gorbachev got all the economic support he dreamt of. That will help him stick temporary patches on his sinking boat. More importantly he received the political and emotional commitment of the United States Administration against those Soviet liberals who fight for the end of party rule.
Washington's support is a powerful weapon for Mr. Gorbachev to bring home for use against those who once trusted America to remain the enemy of Communist Party domination.
Mr. Bush could have gone another way, and should have. He could have said the United States would negotiate for all arms control agreements that benefited both sides.
He could have limited his collection of economic benefits to just one - the suspension of the punitive measures that were enacted to force Moscow to allow its citizens to emigrate.
And, while acknowledging Mr. Gorbachev's role so far, Mr. Bush could have stated the simple truth that a revolution against Communist monopoly is still going on and nearing achievement. He could have said the United States had no right to intervene to stop it by economic and political support on the side of the endangered Soviet Communist apparatus.
Without taking any action against Mr. Gorbachev he would have put this country where it belongs - on the side of those in the Soviet Union who continue to struggle for real freedom against one-party rule. That might even have helped Mr. Gorbachev conclude there was no other alternative.
Why did President Bush decide to turn Malta into an instrument for the preservation of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union? Was it out of fear that oppression, even a form of Fascism, might follow Mr. Gorbachev? That is a possibility because for 70 years the Soviet system has permitted or encouraged such fertilizers and fruit of Fascism as anti-Semitism - and still does.
Clearly a democratic system is what the liberal and radical opponents of the Communist Party are fighting for. But the longer the Communist Party imposes its monopoly rule, the greater the danger of anger leading to another tyranny, not the less.
Most likely, Mr. Bush thought Americans wanted him to seize a role in shaping a new world and liked the idea himself. But that world is emerging only because of the collapse of Communist parties throughout the Soviet empire.
Surely Americans never realized the role Mr. Bush selected would be to provide life support for the Soviet Communist Party, keeping it breathing through more years of pain and suffering for the Soviet people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); MALTA (91%); GERMANY (88%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



134 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
American Faces Eviction On Morris Street

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

DATELINE: YONKERS

 BODY:
Evaristi Corrales, who owned and ran a bakery in Havana, fled from Cuba in 1962, three years into the regime of Fidel Castro, partly out of fear, but mainly for economic reasons. The Marxist government seized the bakery. ''I could not work after Castro took it,'' Mr. Corrales said. ''He took everything.''
So Mr. Corrales, who is 63 years old, and his wife, Leonar, 60, came to the United States, settled in Yonkers, and he got a job as a toolmaker. Fifteen years ago the couple bought a house on Morris Street, at the corner of Riverdale, and 10 years ago they bought the bar behind them and turned it into a small grocery, the El Rancho, and have done fairly well ever since. 
But on Oct. 23, the City of Yonkers, under Federal court order to build new schools to remedy a pattern of discrimination in both housing and schooling, obtained a court order, through eminent domain, seizing the property of the Corraleses and five other homeowners on Morris Street.
The six homeowners had nothing to do with the suit itself. But their property is on the block where the city will build the new school to satisfy the Federal court order.
''What was it that Jimmy Carter said when he was President?,'' said J. Radley Herold, the city's Corporation Counsel, ''Life is not fair? I wish it were.''
''It's garbage,'' said Mr. Corrales. ''I never in my life took the welfare. I work, work, work. The taxes go up, up, and up, and now the City Hall, the Yonkers City Hall, plays with me. They play with me. They put out my tenants. They put me out. It's done. It's finished. I lose.'' The Corrales's house is big, a turn-of-the-century Victorian with 14 rooms, 5 on the top two floors, which they rented, and 4 on the bottom, which they occupied. The city assessed it, and the store, at $205,000, and that is what they will be paid, unless they sue for more.
The Coralleses say they have looked at comparable houses, but they cost considerably more, around $100,000 more. Demolition, said Mr. Herold, is scheduled to start ''very soon,'' but no firm date is set.
The Corrales's two tenants are gone, evicted by the condemnation order. One, a family of three from Ecuador, paid $550 a month, and now pays $850. The other, from Puerto Rico, simply moved away, Mr. Corrales said.
Next door on Morris Street, Oscar Flzo, 32, a carpenter who occupies a $400-a-month room in the home of Florrenda Nieves, also purchased through condemnation, for $167,000, said he had not found a new place to live.
Mr. Flzo said that he had been in this country for nine years and that he had become a citizen a year ago. He lived on Morris Street for four and a half years. And now?
''Either somebody has to move or there is demolition,'' he said. ''I don't know. I try around . . . .'' He shrugs.
Two houses down Morris Street is the home of Caroline Miranda, 82; her sister, Helen Gallagher, 80; her brother, Theodore Kurkeviez, 83, and Mrs. Gallagher's son, Robert Gallagher, 58, a partially disabled former Marine who works at the Post Office. Other than Mr. Gallagher's income, they live on Social Security.
The house is big, in good shape, they have separate bedrooms, and it has been in the family almost 50 years. ''We've been happy in it, we'd love to stay on,'' Mrs. Gallagher said.
But they have also been told to move. ''We're in the same boat as everybody else,'' said Mrs. Miranda, who, like her sister, is a widow. She thought a minute. ''They're killing us,'' she said. Appraisers decided the 12-room house was worth $160,000, and that is what they will be paid for it. The sisters have been looking, but it is hard.
''We've seen about 40 houses,'' Mrs. Gallagher said. ''It's hard to get a house under $249,000, at all.''
It seems anomalous, displacing the poor, the aged, the ill, immigrants, as a remedy for racial imbalance. Perhaps it is the price that must be paid for municipal intransigence in defiance of a determined Federal court.
But the residents of Morris Street say it all came suddenly, that although they have known for as much as a year that their street had been designated as the site of a court-ordered school, that it was only in the last month that it all crystallized for sure, and they were ordered to move. The actual eviction date, Dec. 1, has already passed, but the checks for the assessed payments have not been drawn and delivered, and no one has been evicted quite yet. They will be if necessary. Mr. Herold said everyone knew ''the day of judgment was coming and when it comes, you have got to be moved.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YONKERS (NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; EVICTIONS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; DISCRIMINATION LITIGATION (90%); EVICTION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (77%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); 

PERSON: KING, WAYNE FIDEL CASTRO (88%); JIMMY CARTER (50%); 



135 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: Town Copes With Growth And Trouble It Can Bring

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SOMERS, N.Y.

 BODY:
This northern Westchester town, its hills still flecked with silos and old stone walls, is starting to realize the price it has paid for financial security.
Now that the I.B.M. and Pepsi-Cola complexes are built, together representing more than 1.5 million square feet of office space, taxes are going down. But traffic now clogs country roads. Land erosion causes flooding when it rains. Sometimes at night, the corporate lighting creates an eerie orange haze, or ''sky glow.'' And during the day, the International Business Machines complex is visible for miles.
''When you come up Interstate 684, you don't feel like you're in the country anymore because you see these four monstrosities on top of the hill,'' said William C. Harding, the Town Supervisor of Somers, referring to the lofty pyramids that crown the I.B.M. complex, itself perched on a hill. ''That has a devastating psychological impact.'' Growth or Rural Character? The tensions in Somers have reverberated in recent years in many communities on the fringes of the New York metropolitan region. The heart of the issue is whether municipalities can achieve a balance between fostering economic growth and protecting their precious rural character. 
At the start of the decade, while its neighbors clung to the countryside by barring development drawn by the construction of I-684 in the late 1960's, Somers acted instead to capitalize on that development. And it went all out to attract Pepsi-Cola and I.B.M. by rezoning almost 1,000 acres from residential to commericial use.
But now Somers has turned itself around on development, and town officials, residents, builders and environmentalists attribute it to the impact of I.B.M., and to a lesser extent, Pepsi-Cola. In electing Mr. Harding as supervisor in 1987, the town replaced the three-term Republican incumbent, Wayne Van Tassell, who had invited the two companies to town, with someone who had no government experience but was strongly anti-development and pro-environment.
Mr. Harding, a Republican, was re-elected last month, and the town board, whose majority had supported measures for growth for as long as anyone in Somers can remember, is now unanimously in favor of ''slow growth'' and protecting the environment. Recently proposed environmental ordinances for the town would, if passed, be so tough on future builders that they have even been criticized by the Westchester County Planning Department as excessive.
But many in Somers, a town of 18,000, believe they have no choice. ''Somers burned its hand on the stove, and people asked whether we were really doing the right thing,'' said Mr. Harding, a 37-year-old biologist, who says his mission now is to stop developers from ''attempting to pave every square inch'' of the 33-square-mile town.
There is no question that residents are reaping the benefits of the town's expanded tax base, made larger because the self-contained office complexes do not drain police, fire or educational services. One indicator is that despite a school budget rise of 21 percent over the last two years, school taxes, which make up two-thirds of the total property tax bill, decreased by one-quarter of 1 percent in the same period.
This school year, 25 percent of the $19 million in school taxes was paid by the two companies. ''The fact that I.B.M. and Pepsi-Cola are totally on the tax rolls is an overall boon to the school district,'' said Joseph Sabatella, an assistant superintendent. ''We were able to put in new programs on all levels. Before you were seeing school tax increases of 7, 8, 9 percent a year.''
In addition, the town tax will not rise at all next year, compared to the 5 to 6 percent increases seen earlier in the 1980's, but Mr. Harding credits the cuts he has made in town spending more than the new corporate taxpayers. ''They are not the savior everyone said they would be,'' he said.
 
Frustrating Builders
Some large property owners and builders accuse Somers of being elitist and selfish in its new hard-line stance toward development. They argue that after taking its money and running, the town is now frustrating smaller builders who want to work there and young families who want to move there.
''Everyone who comes into Somers wants to be the last one here,'' said Robert L. Stuart, 37, who runs his family's 200-acre apple orchard and vegetable farm here. ''Most of them come up from the city, and they don't want to see it like White Plains or New Rochelle.''
Others praise I.B.M. and Pepsi-Cola for building on only a fraction of the nearly 1,000 acres in the two complexes. ''A quarter of a century from now, the town of Somers will still look semirural, and one of the reasons, shockingly, is I.B.M. and Pepsi-Cola because they have created so much green belt,'' said Jerry Billingsley, who owns a real-estate concern in Somers.
Many other residents, as well as town officials, have regrets, especially about I.B.M. But Pepsi-Cola has been a model member of the community, said Mr. Harding, with an intelligent, environmentally sensitive site plan and frequent contributions to the town, including a fireworks display last Fourth of July.
A nine-story building is used by 1,500 employees of the Pepsi-Cola Worldwide Beverage Corporation, a division of Pepsico. Employee traffic enters and exits directly onto I-684, avoiding tie-ups in town, and the pink-granite complex is inconspicuously built into a hillside.
 
Soil Erosion
But the 1.2 million-square-foot complex housing the 2,200 employees of I.B.M.'s manufacturing and development headquarters is, according to the Somers Planning Director, Edward Burroughs, a ''disaster,'' with problems of soil erosion, traffic and light pollution.
He added that mud and rain-borne oil from the 2,500 cars using the I.B.M. parking lot have cascaded into the Muscoot Reservoir, which feeds New York City's water supply. I.B.M. draws 750,000 gallons of water a day from the ground, but its parking lot is believed to prevent rain from recharging the ground water. Consequently, the levels of nearby wells have fallen.
''From a planning point of view it doesn't relate well to the land,'' Mr. Burroughs said. ''Having looked at several I.B.M. projects, I see their approach is to put them on top of a hill. It provides a nice view for them, but it sure doesn't blend well with the suburban topography.''
Mr. Burroughs said Pepsi-Cola's going before the town board in 1983 with a professional plan paved the way for I.B.M. the next year. ''After Pepsi, the assumption on the part of the town was that these corporations have a lot of money and know what they're doing, and I.B.M. coasted on that,'' he said.
In response to the town's criticisms, I.B.M. said it was unaware of any environmental trouble but vowed to look into the complaints. ''We have a corporate policy to protect the environment in communities where I.B.M. facilities are located, and if there is a problem and we determine that we are responsible, we will take the appropriate steps to correct it,'' said Jim Smith, an I.B.M. spokesman.
 
Not Paying Attention
The shift in the town's direction, from pro-development to pro-environment, came not during discussions about I.B.M. or Pepsi-Cola but right after, with a 1986 proposal for a giant shopping center. That same year saw the formation of the now-influential environmental organization, Save Our Somers.
''I wasn't paying attention, and I think probably a lot of people weren't paying attention when I.B.M. and Pepsi were before the board,'' said Nancy Mirman, chairwoman of Save Our Somers. ''But after the fact, people sat up and took notice. There was a feeling that there was too much development and that we were going to lose what many of us came here for.''
The organization gathered 2,500 signatures and helped defeat the shopping center plan. In 1987, it endorsed Mr. Harding for supervisor. ''It used to be that there was only one advocate for the environment on the board,'' Mrs. Mirman said. ''I remember his telling the others at a meeting that the town should protect the aquifers, and the other four members looked at him like he had four heads.''
 
A New Master Plan
Today's atmosphere has local builders seething. ''The proposed legislation is not designed to protect the environment,'' said Gus Boniello, a 33-year-old builder from neighboring Lewisboro. ''It is designed to completely devastate building in Somers.''
The proposed ordinances, which will now be reworked in light of the county's criticisms, seek to protect wetlands, ground water, meadows, scenic vistas, steep slopes and trees. The Town Planning Board is drafting a new master plan that is expected to zone up broad sections of the town by increasing the minimum size for building lots.
''The skids aren't greased like they were 10 years ago,'' Mr. Harding said. ''A guy comes in with 100 units, and I get him down to 70. Or I make the process so tough, some of them just blow away.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of the I.B.M., and Pepsi-Cola corporate complexes in Somers, N.Y. (NYT/Jim Estrin) (pg. B1); William c. Harding, the Supervisor of Somers, N.Y. (NYT/Jim Estrin); map of New York showing location of Somers (NYT) (pg. B13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (58%); IBM (NYSE) (58%); IBM (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); PEPSI-COLA CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOMERS (NY)

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAND USE POLICIES REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ORDINANCES (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); ZONING (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); COUNTIES (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); EROSION (71%); TRENDS (71%); FLOODS & FLOODING (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W DAVID DAVIS (58%); 



136 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Santa Claus, North Pole, 33d Street

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
Each year about 18,000 letters addressed to Santa Claus arrive in Manhattan's General Post Office, and you can read them like a script for New York itself: tales of need and greed and shining expectation, of entitlement or estrangement, of a chance to get something for nothing, or even, at times, to gain nothing at all but the chance to give to someone else.
This year, Angela Tellez, 15 years old, wants sweaters (''size: medium in misses''). Isaias Noyola wants ''two Nintendo tapes like . . . Marble Madness. Please Please Please Please Please Please.'' And a correspondent who identified himself only as Fredrick seeks a box of diapers for his little sister: ''Luv's Deluxe, size medium for girls (pink).'' 
These and other dreams went on display yesterday in the lobby of the General Post Office at Eighth Avenue and 33d Street. Anyone can answer them, and many do. Shortly after noon, business executives, school groups, and other passersby began sifting through the piles, which will be available during business hours throughout December.
About 7,000 of them are answered each year, often anonymously, by strangers sending everything from toys to tombstones.
 
'See You Soon. Love Patty.'
''Dear Santa,'' began Patty Allen, 10. ''For Christmas could you buy me a dress and a pair of shoes...right now my mother doesn't work. Santa I want to thank you a wish you a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. See you soon. Love Patty.''
Donna Figuera, the girl's mother, said her daughter, a fifth grader at P.S. 137 on the Lower East Side, wrote Santa for the first time last year and received Barbie dolls and clothes. Ms. Figuera said she is unable to give Christmas presents to Patty and her two sisters, Krystal Ortiz, 3, and Stephanie Ortiz, 5, because she is unemployed and gets only $231 a month in welfare.
In past years, it was only the grandchildren of Milagros Orta who wrote, but this season Mrs. Orta joined in. ''Dear Santa,'' she began. ''My name is Milagros. I'm 50 years old. I'm a sick lady with cancer. I'm always with pain in the body. I like a Quilt so I could be warm at night.''
Mrs. Orta said she moved to the United States from Puerto Rico when she was 13, and later spent 11 years working in a social service office, helping clients fill out benefit requests. Illness forced her to retire in 1979 - and seek benefits herself.
 
'It's Beautiful, You Know'
In her own situation she sees a reflection of New York's hardening from the beckoning city of the 1950's, in which she remembers reasonably priced food and shelter being widely available, to the harsh landscape of the late 1980's, in which her family must seek help from strangers.
In recent years, letters from her grandchildren have brought toys and clothes. ''There are people out there who care,'' she said. ''I couldn't be more grateful to them, deep in my heart. It's beautiful, you know. I cannot express it.''
This year her grandson, Willie Ortiz, who lives with her, said he wrote about 20 different letters.
But that's nothing compared with Olga Cespedes. At least 72 separate handwritten letters bore her Hayward, Calif., address. One of them explained that she and her mother came to the United States two years ago from Nicaragua, and that, of her mother's $550 monthly earnings, $300 goes to rent and $200 to food.
 
Bedroom Ensemble
Several letters carried her wish for a bedroom ensemble. ''Size full,'' specified one. 'Size queen,'' ordered another. ''Size twin'' read the third.
And why would the residents of Hayward be looking to Manhattan?
''In the past years, the program has gotten so much publicity - even Johnny Carson, who flashes the address - that we even get foreign letters,'' said Andy Sozzi, a postal employee who packed himself into a Santa outfit to kick off this year's program.
The correct address is Operation Santa Claus, Manhattan General Post Office, New York, N.Y., 10199-9641, but even letters that come through local post offices addressed North Pole, North Pole, have made their way into the piles.
 
'You Cut the Stone . . .'
This was the fourth year that Frank Stiefel took time out to sift through the boxes. His production company, Stiefel & Co., makes television commercials for clients like Chevrolet and Michelob, he said. Rather than send clients ''a bottle of Scotch or whatever dopey gift'' at Christmas time, the company chooses 30 to 40 letters and answers the requests in Santa's name. Then it forwards the letter to the clients, letting them know that the acts were undertaken in appreciation of their business relationship.
''Clients love it,'' he said, and so do the 17 members of his office, who shop for the gifts and wrap them.
''There was one a couple of years ago that was remarkable,'' he said. ''It came from a grandmother in California, and what she wanted was a headstone for her grandchild.'' Mr. Steifel said he called a tombstone maker and told him, ''If you cut the stone, we'll cut the check.''
Then, Mr. Steifel said, the tombstone maker ''went to visit the grandmother and found that the child had died six, seven years before, and they'd never been able to afford a stone.
''He called and said, 'You know what, don't cut the check. This is my gift.' ''
''I wished him a Merry Christmas,'' Mr. Stiefel said, ''And he thanked me - for giving him the chance to have a Merry Christmas.''

GRAPHIC: Stephanie Ortiz, 5 years old, who wrote to Santa with her sisters Patty Allen, 10, and Krystal Ortiz, 3. (NYT/Michelle V. Agins)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE; CHRISTMAS; SANTA CLAUS CHRISTMAS (89%); POSTAL SERVICE (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); CANCER (60%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON



137 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
M. Danny Wall resigned under fire as head of the Office of Thrift Supervision. Mr. Wall, who had become a symbol of the nation's failure to regulate the savings industry adequately, contended that he had become the ''scapegoat for the entire thrift crisis.'' [Page A1.]
New orders for manufactured goods fell for the second consecutive month in October, in a new sign of slack economic growth. [D5.] 
Sales of new homes fell 0.5 percent in October, hurt by the California earthquake and a slowing economy. [D5.]
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether American banks must use their worldwide assets to repay depositors when a foreign government closes a branch or otherwise makes a normal repayment impossible. [D16.]
 
International
U S West signed an agreement with Hungary to build a mobile cellular telephone system in Budapest. It will be the first such telephone network to be constructed in Eastern Europe. [D1.]
The U.S. plans an investigation of the national security aspects of China's agreement to buy an American company that manufactures metal components for commercial aircraft. [D4.]
 
 
 
Companies
Lin Broadcasting's board recommended that shareholders accept the latest offer of $3.38 billion from McCaw. Lin already has a merger agreement with BellSouth. [D1.]
Capital Cities/ABC asked a Federal District Court to order the Government to allow ABC Sports to televise the 1991 Pan American Games from Havana. [D22.]
Deloitte, Haskins & Sells and Touche Ross completed their merger in the U.S. amid signs that more foreign affiliates of the two firms had rejected the merger. [D7.]
UAL stock rose $5.50 after Coniston Partners said it had increased its stake in the company and a union official said she expected the company to present a new buyout proposal. [D3.]
MSI Holdings said it has not been able to arrange financing for its $220 million offer to acquire Michaels Stores. [D3.]
 
 
 
Markets
Fidelity Investments is taking steps to give it more influence over companies in which it holds stock. [D1.] A group representing 60 pension funds struck back against those who would like to see more pension fund money channeled into local economies. [D7.]
Treasury officials are circulating proposals to end the jurisdictional squabbles between Federal regulators for the securities and futures industries. [D2.]
Stock prices extended their gains, and the Dow Jones industrial average advanced 5.98 points, to 2,753.63. [D10.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds were narrowly mixed in very light trading, as market participants focused attention on the release of November employment data on Friday. [D16.]
Precious metals prices tumbled in part, dealers said, because the weekend summit meeting raised promises of reduced global tensions. [D17.] The dollar finished mixed as currency traders focused on the West German mark. [D17.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Utility stocks have turned into top performers in the last few months. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
Many employers and insurers are worried that their expenditures for employee health care will increase as a result of changes in the rules for paying doctors in the Federal Medicare program, which Congress adopted last month. Business and Health. [D2.]
Is Hal Riney exercising control over New York from his base in San Francisco? Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D23.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T SOUTHEAST (55%); ABC SPORTS INC (54%); DELOITTE LLP (54%); ABC INC (54%); FMR CORP (52%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (84%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MERGERS (89%); CURRENCIES (83%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FUTURES (77%); BONDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); US DOLLAR (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); METALS MARKETS (61%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (61%); 



138 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Drug Abuse: $60 Billion a Year

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
Economists say the cost of illicit drugs to American society has risen substantially in the last few years, to far more than $60 billion annually. At the same time they are discovering vast new areas of additional economic impact that they are only now beginning to understand.
The new estimate for the annual total cost is based on the first major Federal study since 1984 of the adverse economic effects of drug addiction, and according to the researchers it represents an increase since 1985 of more than $10 billion, even after discounting for inflation. Increased medical costs for crack addicts and drug-addicted AIDS patients represent a significant portion of the rising expense.
''It's clear that for 1989, the cost of drugs on society is tremendous, far more than $60 billion,'' said Dorothy Rice, a former director of national health statistics at the Federal Department of Health and Human Services and a medical economist who was commissioned by the Government to conduct the study. Full details of the report will not be released until next month, but officials made known its major findings in recent interviews. 
The newly detected areas of economic impact - unexpectedly large cash surpluses that have appeared in some Federal Reserve Banks and artificially altered real estate values -are being explored on campuses and at Government agencies that are trying to set drug, health, economic and foreign policies and enforcing existing laws against money laundering. The medical bills for drug abusers and victims of drug-related crimes, along with the expenses incurred in expanding law enforcement systems, are other important factors adding to the increased costs.
Economists say the current estimates do in fact amount to a staggering price tag. Medical experts compare the drug cost to the enormous economic effects of the nation's battle against cancer, which the American Cancer Society estimates at about $70 billion annually.
 
Offset by Cigarette Taxes
A recent Rand Corporation study pointed out that the price paid by society for cigarette smoking is completely offset by Federal and state taxes on cigarette sales, but there are no similar revenues generated by illegal drugs.
The costs to some extent are offset at least in the short term by large amounts of cash accumulated by the illegal drug industry, which invests much of that money in legitimate enterprises. But no one knows how to assess that effect, and it is believed to be short-lived.
''The study means that narcotics is one of America's major industries, right up there with consumer electronics, automobiles and steelmaking,'' said Robert B. Reich, a political economist at the John F. Kennedy School of Goverment at Harvard University. ''Unlike our other major industries, however, the narcotics industry doesn't have a net effect of creating wealth. It makes us all substantially poorer. In fact, it is like a reverse industry, tearing things down rather than producing anything.''
Economists readily acknowledge that figures in economic research on drugs are always difficult to obtain. ''It's a very, very tough area to work in because of the assumptions that have to be made and the available data,'' said Al Harwood, an official at the National Institute on Drug Abuse in Rockville, Md., who has been overseeing the latest study.
But he said the recent analyses were more accurate because of advances in gathering basic data and computerizing statistics. More specific costs of drug-related treatment are now available, for example, as well as better information on worker absenteeism and drug-related budgets for local, state and Federal criminal enforcement programs.
 
The Cost for Addicted Infants
One cost growing at an alarming rate is treatment for infants addicted to drugs, said Senator Lloyd Bentsen, Democrat of Texas, who notes that intensive-care costs alone last year reached $2.5 billion. He said Federal and local governments would soon be spending $15 billion annually to prepare addicted children to enter kindergarten and at least $6 billion more a year to get them through high school.
It is in the broader areas of international and local economies that experts are seeing effects they had not been fully aware of or studied before.
The sudden flow of large amounts of cash in and out of the banking centers of some urban areas is believed to be related to illegal drug profits that are ultimately draining money out of local economies, though where and how is not known.
According to a report by the Federal Reserve, for the first six months of 1989, the Miami Federal Reserve branch reported a cash surplus of $2.8 billion, Los Angeles $2.7 billion, Jacksonville $1.5 billion and San Antonio $1.2 billion. Houston, El Paso and New Orleans all experienced large increases of cash surpluses as well, from 219 percent to 56 percent. Surpluses in Miami and Los Angeles are growing by 10 percent annually.
The Federal Reserve says it believes that these surpluses are drug related, especially since the increases coincide with record-breaking drug seizures in these cities.
 
Hard Cash Disappears
A more direct effect is the disappearance of hard cash. Over all, the drug industry is contributing to the unaccounted loss of billions in currency from the economy. Experts estimate that perhaps $125 billion in American currency is ''missing.'' Much of it is said to be used in illegal drug and arms transactions, often winding up in foreign banks and markets. It forms the basis for an enormous tax-free underground economy.
According to a study by the Treasury Department, the preferred denominations for drug transactions are $10 and $20 bills. The study, which examined the possibility of withdrawing $100 notes from the economy, says law enforcement agencies around the nation say that $100 notes account for 25 to 30 percent of the currency seized in drug raids and arrests.
New patterns of flight capital, particularly from Peru, Colombia and Bolivia, are also being perceived by economists. Most of the cocaine smuggled into the United States and Europe is processed from coca plants grown in the Andes.
 
Drug Profits Invested
The Latin drug dealers have traditionally moved a substantial share of their profits out of their relatively poor and unstable countries, adding to economic and political difficulties there, and reinvested the money in apparently legitimate enterprises in North America and Europe. A major share now, however, is going to Hong Kong, where the money is said to be easier to conceal. Indeed, officials say, Hong Kong has become an international center for drug-money laundering.
Experts estimate that as much as $250 billion in assets owned by Latin Americans is invested abroad. A recent report by the House Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control concludes that most of the world's cocaine profits do not return to producer countries but are invested in tax havens, offshore bank accounts and real estate abroad.
In those instances where some money does remain in these drug producing nations, it is not used to help build a solid economy. ''Cocaine traffickers are not captains of industry like the Harrimans, Rockefellers and Carnegies of yore,'' said Rensselaer W. Lee 3d, a consultant who is teaching at George Washington University. The way the narcotics traders ''invest'' their money locally, he added, was in bribing law enforcement officials, operating assassination squads and buying arms.
 
A Lift for Peasants
Nevertheless, the report by the House Select Committee notes, the cocaine industry has ''revolutionized expectations and aspirations within Andean societies, for peasants especially.'' It added, ''Television sets, videocassette recorders, stereos and cars have become attainable.''
Thus the cocaine trade has spawned new constituencies that place new demands on Andean political systems. And, as Mr. Lee put it, entire regions of South America have come to depend economically on coca cultivation.
In Boliva alone, where the export of legal goods is about $800 million each year, illegal cocaine exports may exceed that amount. As a result, the drug industry has become an institutionalized source of many jobs. It is estimated that 1.5 million people are employed in Andian production of cocaine and as many as 50,000 work in marijuana production in Colombia alone.
 
'A Safety Valve'
So for the short term at least, the drug industry clearly has some value, both economically and as a temporary relief from political tensions. ''Cocaine has acted as a safety valve for the Andean countries where the economy fails to deliver,'' Mr. Lee said. ''This substitution is most advanced in Peru and Bolivia, which have performed poorly on nearly every economic front in this decade.''
The broad effect of drug-money laundering on local economies in the United States is being seen by bank regulators who have discovered unusually large numbers of cash sales of real estate, automobiles and boats evidently financed with drug money. In Dade County, Fla., economists have estimated that as much as 2 to 10 percent of the area's business boom has been driven by drug profits, often transacted in cash.
''Either there's a lot of tourists not using credit cards or there's lots of drug money,'' said Dexter Lehtinen, the United States Attorney in Miami. Mr. Lehtinen said that in Miami, some $220 million in cash has been spent on automobiles in the last three years, while Jacksonville and Tampa had about $24 million in cash sales of cars in the same period. And in parts of southern Florida as much as 20 percent of the transactions for real estate are in cash.
 
Inflated Prices Seen
Some local officials and prosecutors say that while these sales may prove lucrative to sellers, they have the effect of inflating the price of real estate and causing property taxes to increase as assessments go up. Of course, values of many inner-city properties are also seriously deflated because of the drug business.
Real estate transactions represent only a small piece of drug investments. As regulatory barriers that had limited international investments are being removed, and as stock and currency markets become global, narcotics profiteers are finding it easier to conceal their illegally earned wealth.
''The transferring of profits to avoid tax liability, and hedge and insurance trading are becoming commonplace,'' said R. Thomas Naylor, a professor at McGill University in Montreal who specializes in the underground economy. ''There has become a blurring of the line between the behavior of legal and illegal money.''

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the amount of drug abuse in various cities (source: Federal Reserve) (NYT) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%); US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (56%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DRUG TRAFFIC SUBSTANCE ABUSE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (85%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CANCER (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); SMOKING (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COCAINE (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (69%); STATISTICS (68%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (67%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (66%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (65%); MONEY LAUNDERING (64%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (60%); DRUG PRICES (58%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); 



139 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: U S West In Budapest Phone Deal

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
U S West Inc., one of the nation's seven regional Bell telephone companies, said yesterday that it had signed an agreement with Hungary to build a mobile cellular telephone system in Budapest.
The Hungarian cellular system will be the first such telephone network to be constructed in Eastern Europe. Because of the shortage of telephones in the nation, Hungarians are expected to use cellular telephones for basic home service, as well as mobile communications.
For Hungary and the other Eastern European countries, which have antiquated telephone systems, it will be faster and cheaper for the Government to deliver telephone service by cellular networks than it would be to rebuild the nation's entire telephone infrastructure. 
 
At First, Only Budapest
A cellular telephone network transmits calls on radio waves to small receiving antennas, called ''cell'' sites, that relay the calls to local phone systems. The system to be built in Hungary, which is viewed as an alternative until the country can develop its infrastructure, will transmit calls from cellular phone to cellular phone and through the existing land-based telephone network.
The system, which is scheduled to go into operation in the first quarter of 1991, will initially provide cellular communications to Budapest's 2.1 million residents. Eventually, the system will serve all of Hungary, which has 10.6 million citizens.
Hungary currently has 6.8 telephone lines for every 100 people, according to The World's Telephones, a statistical compilation produced by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. By comparison, the United States has 48.1 lines for every 100 people. Demand for telephone service in Hungary exceeds supply by 300,000 to 500,000 lines, industry analysts said.
U S West, based in Denver, said that under the agreement it would own and operate 49 percent of the cellular network and that Magyar Posta, the Hungarian postal, telegraph and telephone organization, would retain the rest.
Because the Hungarian cellular telephone system will rely on sophisticated computer software, U S West needs the approval of the 16-nation Coordinating Committee for Strategic Exports, or Cocom, to build the network. Cocom limits the transfer of technology from Western countries to the Eastern bloc.
 
'A Prime Place'
Dick Callahan, president of U S West Diversified Group, said he was certain the company would receive Cocom approval because the Bush Administration has said it was considering relaxing some Cocom restrictions on technology transfers for Eastern Europe and because the technology has been available for a number of years and does not have sensitive military applications. ''Our view is that of the Eastern European countries, Hungary is the most open to adapting to change and that makes it a prime place to do business,'' Mr. Callahan said.
Cellular telephones, said Diana Munger, manager of telecommuncations and East West affairs for the United States Council for International Business, ''are very tempting prospects for countries whose telecommunication infrastructure is undeveloped. She added: It's a cheap, rapid upgrade because there is no need to tear up the streets and install miles of cable.''
Joel Gross, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said: ''It's a good move because it gives U S West a foothold in Eastern Europe and shows other countries what they can do. I think they can leverage this into other opportunities. It's hard to impugn this move because we have no sense of the long-term economic or political risks.''
 
One-Time Connection Fee
Mr. Callahan of U S West said that the price of cellular service in Hungary would be considerably less than it is in the United States because the capital costs for property and equipment for the network are much less.
Hungarians would pay a one-time connection fee and be billed a monthly charge. As in the United States, the cost of using the new service will be more expensive in Hungary than the regular service.
U S West said that its cellular telephone and NewVector Group divisions will provide operational management for the project, including technical assistance, design and marketing. Magyar Posta will provide interconnection services, engineering and construction.
The first phase of the project that will bring cellular telephone service to Budapest will cost about $10 million, which U S West and Magyar Posta will split.
Analysts said they did not expect U S West to make a profit on the deal until the middle of the upcoming decade at the earliest, and added that there was a great deal of uncertainty, given the current political and economic turmoil, about how or whether hard currency would be forthcoming from Hungary. They also noted that while it was difficult to place a value on the cellular venture, a $5 million investment did not constitute a considerable risk for a $9 billion company.
 
A Personal Link
U S West said it had been negotiating with Hungary to build the cellular system since last summer and that initial talks were the result of the close ties that U S West's international group vice president, Andres Bande, whose grandparents are Hungarian, has with the Government.
A typical cellular system in a major city can accommodate several hundred thousand users because it divides the area into the small ''cell'' sites. Each cell has an antenna that covers an area no more than 50 miles across and can transmit and pick up thousands of calls simultaneously.
As a customer moves from one cell to another, the call is transferred from one cell antenna to another, without the customer realizing the signal has been shifted to keep it strong. The computer software that shifts the call from cell to cell is the part of the cellular system that is subject to Cocom approval.
The cells relay the radio waves to a centralized computer called a mobile telephone switching office that connects the calls with the local telephone network.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); INDIA (58%); 

STATE: BIHAR, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (95%); 

COMPANY: U S WEST INC (96%); AT&T INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: US WEST INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY; BUDAPEST (HUNGARY)

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (95%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (65%); STATISTICS (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 



140 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Steel Importers' Trade Plea

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Steel importers said yesterday that fair-trade laws were being abused to protect United States steel companies from foreign competition and urged an international trading body to examine the issue.
The importers directed criticism at anti-dumping laws, which are intended to prevent foreign companies from selling in the United States at unfairly low prices. 
Foreign producers can run afoul of anti-dumping laws through no fault of their own, simply because of a drop in the dollar's value, the American Institute for Imported Steel contended at a New York news conference.
A consultant for the trade group said in an interview that Commerce Department officials had admitted to him that they selectively prosecuted foreign companies under anti-dumping laws as a warning to others.
''They were actually proud of using the laws somewhat unevenly - just to keep the foreign producers on their toes,'' said Hans Mueller, an economics professor at Middle Tennessee State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); MIDDLE TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); MIDDLE TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); INTERVIEWS (86%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 



141 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Chase Names Director Of Securities Activity

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Commercial banks are pushing hard to combine their recently gained powers to trade and sell corporate bonds with other financings like interest-rate swaps or interest-rate caps and floors.
As part of that effort, Walter J. Mullen 3d was named yesterday as managing director in charge of coordinating the swaps and securities activities at Chase Securities, an arm of the Chase Manhattan Corporation, parent of the Chase Manhattan Bank.
In rate swaps, two borrowers agree to exchange interest-rate payments, believing that the type of payment they will be making, at either a fixed or floating rate, will fit better into their financial plans. As part of his new job, Mr. Mullen will also oversee the issuance of instruments that are often sold in conjunction with swaps, like commercial paper and short-term bank loan participations. 
Mr. Mullen, 40 years old, will be coming to Chase from the Security Pacific Corporation, where he specialized in showing companies how to use new financing products. He said he sees rate swaps and related businesses as an area ''where banks are on a level, or slightly superior, playing field to the securities firms.''
There is a tendency among securities firms, he said, to regard the swaps business as ''an ornament'' to their primary business of selling securities like stocks and bonds. The merging of Chase's established swaps and related businesses with the banking company's newer venture in the securities markets ''is clearly the avenue for the most growth and profit,'' Mr. Mullen said.
Rate swaps require a mastery of mathematics and the business sense to apply them to a company's particular need. They also require skills in persuading a corporate treasurer that they help protect against the risks of fluctuating interest rates. Since it was invented in 1980, the rate swap market has grown to $1 trillion outstanding.
Mr. Mullen, who is known as Jack, started his career at the Commercial Credit Corporation, where he was one of the first corporate financiers using swaps. He also held a position at the First National Bank of Chicago.
Mr. Mullen said his job at Chase would be to manage a staff of experts, ''to serve as a sounding board for their ideas, and to take the ideas that work and apply them through the group.''
Mr. Mullen, who lives in Scarsdale, N.Y., with his wife, Carol, and three children, is a fitness enthusiast. ''Physical fitness is a requirement for mental fitness,'' he said, adding that he plays basketball and golf.
Born in Columbia, S.C., Mr. Mullen received a bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland and an M.B.A. from Loyola University in Baltimore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (74%); JPM (LSE) (74%); 8634 (TSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (74%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (50%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (74%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); CHILDREN (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; MULLEN, WALTER J 3D



142 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Down 0.5% In October

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Sales of new homes fell five-tenths of 1 percent in October, the Government reported today. Analysts said that overall purchases were driven down by a 24.7 percent decline in the West because of the San Francisco Bay-area earthquake and the effects of the slowing economy.
But economists said the sales pace should improve somewhat in coming months as mortgage interest rates drop to the mid-9 percent range. No analyst predicted a surge in sales. 
''The report says that housing market activity has improved some from the sluggish pace of March and February, but that the market is by no means taking off,'' said Thomas Holloway, senior economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association.
 
Gains in Most Regions
The Commerce Department said new single-family homes were sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 649,000 in October, after a revised 10.2 percent plunge in September. The Government originally reported that sales in September declined 14 percent.
Sales in the West fell 53,000 units on an annual basis, to 161,000 homes. But all other regions reported gains. David Berson, chief economist for the Federal National Mortgage Association, said that ''the earthquake appeared to keep people from buying new homes.''
Michael Carliner, an economist with the National Association of Home Builders, said economic sluggishness also contributed to the lack of sales in the West. Part of the problem, he said, was slower military spending, which resulted in layoffs.
Home sales had fallen significantly earlier this year as the Federal Reserve Board pumped up interest rates to slow the economy and contain inflation. As inflationary pressures cooled, however, the Fed has permitted gradual decreases in rates.
The interest rate on fixed-rate mortgages fell to an average of 9.82 percent at the end of October, after rising into the double digits in September, according to a survey by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
The Commerce Department said the median price of a new home in October rose 5.3 percent, to $127,900. The median means half of the homes cost more and half less. The average price of a new home was unchanged at $151,900. The National Association of Realtors reported today that the median price of an existing single-family home was $92,100.
New-home sales in the Northeast rose 47.8 percent, but Mr. Berson of Fannie Mae said that reflected a low September sales count rather than growing market strength.
The South posted a 5.7 percent increase, while the Midwest recorded a 3.7 percent gain.
New-home sales for the first nine months of the year were down 4.4 percent from the corresponding period in 1988.

GRAPHIC: Graphs of prices of homes and amount of new-home sales (source: Commerce Dept.) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); FNM (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); 

PERSON: THOMAS E HOLLOWAY (56%); 



143 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Durables Lead Factory Orders Drop

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
New orders for manufactured goods fell for the second consecutive month in October, the Government said today, in a new sign of slack economic growth.
Much of the manufacturing weakness was concentrated in the durable goods sector, where computer and auto equipment orders fell sharply. But healthy demand for nondurables, like food and chemicals, helped temper the October fall, leaving it down two-tenths of 1 percent, at $233.9 billion. 
The factory order figures buttressed other indicators showing a sluggish pace of growth in the manufacturing sector.
 
Fed Action Predicted
Economists said the Federal Reserve may soon have to relax credit to prevent the slowdown from worsening.
''The whole durable goods sector has clearly lost momentum, but in the soft goods area, like food and chemicals, there is still a good deal of strength,'' said Norman Robertson, an economist with the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
''Manufacturing output is going to remain rather flat into the first quarter of 1990,'' he added.
The decline in October orders came after a revised 1 percent drop in September, with both months heavily influenced by a swing in military orders. Excluding this category, orders rose three-tenths of 1 percent in October, after falling 2.2 percent in September.
The Government had originally reported that total factory orders in September had been unchanged.
Factory orders have been hurt by a decline in orders for ''big ticket'' durable goods, items like appliances, cars and industrial equipment that are expected to last more than three years. If the Fed eases credit, those orders, which are often financed by borrowing, could benefit.
The Commerce Department said orders for non-electrical machinery slumped 6.7 percent, with a decline in office and computing equipment accounting for 40 percent of the fall. The category also includes engines and turbines and construction and mining equipment.
Orders for automotive equipment declined 3.1 percent, after falling 13.7 percent in September.
''Much of the pervasive weakness in the durable goods sector is concentrated in the auto industry and its suppliers,'' Mr. Robertson said.
The auto downturn was offset by a 3.9 percent rise in aircraft orders, lifting the entire transportation sector 1.7 percent in October, after a 10.8 percent drop in September.
Excluding the transportation sector from both months, factory orders fell five-tenths of 1 percent, after a climb of eight-tenths of 1 percent in September.
Military orders for capital goods, which soared 33.7 percent in September, fell 12.1 percent in October. Nonmilitary capital goods orders, which are considered a broad indicator of business investment, fell 1.8 percent in October.
Unfilled orders by factories rose by three-tenths of 1 percent in October, but the Commerce Department said backlogs have been shrinking since February, excluding the transportation sector.
Shipments declined six-tenths of 1 percent, marking the seventh monthly decline this year.

GRAPHIC: Graph of manufacturers total new orders (source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (99%); ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); FACTORY ORDERS (95%); DURABLE GOODS (92%); NEW ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (73%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); 



144 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Extend Gain as Dow Advances 5.98

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
Stock prices extended their gains yesterday, and the Dow Jones industrial average advanced 5.98 points, to 2,753.63.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 150.4 million, compared with 199.2 million on Friday, and 810 issues rose in price while 708 fell.
On Friday, the market surged to its 10th-highest close, and some traders hoped that as the economy eased and the summit meeting in Malta progressed, credit would be eased.
 
Waiting for a Signal
The traders said the market was awaiting a signal from the Federal Reserve on its credit policy, but few expected an easing until the Government employment figures for November are released on Friday. 
The Dow utility average climbed a slight 0.44 point yesterday, to 228.24, a historic high, making it the first of any widely watched market index to reach a high since the Oct. 13 decline of 190 points. The advance of the utilities reflects the widely held expectation among investors that interest rates are headed down. Historically, utilities offer attractive returns in such an investment climate.
Shares of Texas Utilities Company, a Dallas-based electric utility, advanced 5/8, to 35 5/8. With more than 4.6 million shares changing hands, the utility was the most heavily traded issue on the Big Board. A spokesman for the company said the heavy trading was dividend related.
Among the most active issues, USX advanced 3, to 37 3/4, on heavy trading after a report that the investor Carl C. Icahn was considering a $50-a-share offer for the giant energy and steel conglomerate. Mr. Icahn holds 13.6 percent of the company's shares.
Technology issues advanced broadly. International Business Machines moved up 2 1/8, to 99 1/4, after Data Switch introduced a component switch for I.B.M. computers.
Among other technology issues, Cray Research moved up 3 1/8, to 36 5/8, as favorable long-term prospects, which includes the outlook for a recently completed Cray computer, encouraged investors. Some analysts released higher earnings forecasts for the supercomputer maker.
Digital Equipment jumped 3, to 88; Honeywell gained 2 5/8 to end at 82 7/8; Microsoft moved up 1 1/4 points, to 86 1/4; Apple Computer advanced 1 1/4, to 45 1/4, and Intel Corporation rose 1/2, to 35 3/4.
Mattel Inc. rose 1 5/8, to 18 7/8, after the company announced that it expects a 25 percent rise in sales of its entire line of toys in the fourth quarter. Sales of the company's Barbie doll are expected to reach $600 million this year, far above the $100 million in sales last year.
Shares of First Interstate Bancorp rose 2 1/2, to 53 3/4, but spokesmen for the bank said the company knew of no reason for the run-up in its stock.
L. A. Gear gained 2 1/4 to end at 35 1/4 after the sneaker maker reported sharply higher sales and orders. Nike, another sports shoes maker, lost ground, falling 1, to 55 3/4.
The Dow transportation average moved up a sharp 15.29 points, largely on the gains made by UAL. Shares of UAL, the parent of United Airlines, rose 5 1/2, to 179 1/2, on news that Coniston Partners had raised its stake in the airline company and met with its management and unions to discuss a transaction designed to lift the stock price. Coniston, a New York-based investment firm, has said it plans to oust management and pursue an extraordinary transaction. Coniston raised its holding in the company to around 11.8 percent, from 9.7 percent.
Shares of AMR, the parent company of American Airlines, rose 1 to close at 66 1/2.
 
Broader Indexes
Among broader market indexes, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks was up a slight 0.78, to 351.41, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index gained only 0.41, to end at 194.07.
On the American Stock Exchange, the market-value index lost a slight 0.92 to end at 374.66.
The Nasdaq composite index advanced 1.18 points, to 458.28. Among the most active over-the-counter issues, MCI Communications was down 1/8, to 44 3/4, on fairly heavy trading. The company announced that it was considering a common dividend.
Lin Broadcasting, which was up 1 1/2, to 121 5/8, announced after the close of the market that its board would recommend that shareholders accept a revised buyout offer from McCaw Cellular, which was up 3/4, to 39 1/4.

GRAPHIC: Favorite Stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (82%); WFC (NYSE) (82%); MAT (NASDAQ) (62%); IBMC (BRU) (53%); IBM (NYSE) (53%); IBM (LSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (68%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (68%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (68%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (68%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (62%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (62%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (82%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); ENERGY FUTURE HOLDINGS CORP (68%); MATTEL INC (62%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (68%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (65%); TOYS & GAMES (60%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D CARL ICAHN (79%); 



145 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Mixed in Light Trading

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds were narrowly mixed in very light trading yesterday, as market participants pointed to the release of November employment data on Friday.
''With the exception of a holiday period, this is the slowest trading day I have ever seen, and as far as I know this is not a holiday,'' one government bond trader said.
''A lot of it has to do with the fact that market participants are placing a lot of importance on the employment numbers at the end of the week, and have already established their positions in advance of that report.''
MMS International, an economic information service firm, said in its daily commentary that ''release of the Fed's tan book on Wednesday may be the only hope for volatility ahead of the employment data,'' referring to the Federal Reserve's economic survey of regional Federal Reserve banks. It added, ''We still expect Fed easing and higher Treasury prices before 1989 comes to a close, but for now patience will be the key.'' 
 
Major Commodity Prices
By focusing on the employment figures, traders yesteday tended to ignore a big drop in the major commodity prices that make up the Commodity Research Bureau's price index, as well as a $12.50-an-ounce decline in gold prices, to $401.10. Some credit market analysts have cited the recent run-up in gold prices as a major impediment to higher bond prices.
The fact that participants did not respond to what should have been positive developments disquieted some portfolio managers.
''The market has been getting an unending stream of good news, and yet it can't move ahead,'' said Roger A. Craig, manager of the fixed-income department at the Banc One Asset Management Corporation in Columbus, Ohio. ''I am beginning to think the market is way ahead of itself. If that is correct, at best prices are going to stay where they are and at worst they could sell off.''
Yesterday bond prices did marginally better than note issues in the secondary Treasury securities market.
By late in the day, the 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 102 7/8, up 1/32, to yield 7.87 percent.
 
Ten-Year Note Offering
Meanwhile, the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 14/32 in late trading, down 2/32, to yield 7.81 percent. And the 7 3/4 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 2/32, down 2/32, to yield 7.71 percent.
At the Treasury's weekly bill auction, interest rates eased slightly on the new three- and six-month securities.
Three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 7.55 percent, down from an average rate of 7.63 percent a week ago.
Six-month bills were offered at an average rate of 7.30 percent, down from 7.45 percent at last week's auction.
New corporate issues priced yesterday included an offering of $250 million of three-month floating rate notes from the Chrysler Financial Corporation.
The notes, which have a final maturity date of Dec. 9, 1992, were priced at 5/16 of a percentage point over the prevailing yield on the three-month London interbank offered rate. The notes will reset and pay interest quarterly. The first rate will be set on Dec. 11.
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets acted as lead manager for the underwriting, which is rated Baa-1 by Moody's Investors Service and BBB by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Participants in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds said that prices of most issues were unchanged on the day.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, dealers said that prices of most issues rose by 1/8 of a point to 1/4 of a point in sluggish trading.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: Graph of 3-month treasury bills (source: The Bond Buyer) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); AUCTIONS (79%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



146 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Justices to Decide if Citibank Must Pay on Foreign Deposit

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4

 BODY:
The Supreme Court agreed today to decide whether American banks, which ordinarily are not liable for deposits made in their foreign branch offices, must use their worldwide assets to repay depositors when a foreign government closes a branch or otherwise makes a normal repayment impossible.
The case is an appeal by Citibank of a ruling last year by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, which held Citibank liable for repaying two $1 million certificates of deposit that its Manila branch had issued in 1983 to a Singapore subsidiary of the Wells Fargo Bank of San Francisco.
That ruling caused widespread concern among American banks with foreign branches and among Federal bank regulators. Nearly 900 foreign branches of 171 federally chartered banks hold some $240 billion in deposits, according to the Federal Reserve Board. 
 
Order by Philippines
The branch could not repay the six-month deposits because late in 1983 the Philippine Government issued an emergency economic order barring banks from sending dollars out of the country. The deposits were in Eurodollars, a term for dollars held by banks outside the United States and payable outside the United States.
The appeal, Citibank v. Wells Fargo Asia Ltd., No. 88-1260, raises two interrelated questions.
The first question concerns the characteristic of Eurodollar accounts in foreign branches. The appeals court acknowledged that under general banking law principles, a deposit at a domestic or foreign branch is the obligation of that branch alone. But the appeals court said it was creating an exception in this case based on its finding that the two banks, in agreeing that repayment would be made by wire transfer through corresponding banks in New York, had in effect agreed in advance that the general rule insulating branch deposits would not apply.
 
Operation of Market Cited
The Federal Government, urging the Supreme Court to hear the appeal and overturn that finding, said the appeals court's conclusion was ''contrary to the actual operation of the Eurodollar market.'' The Government said that while repayment on such accounts was often made by wire transfers through New York, these ''standard routing instructions'' should not be interpreted to change the nature of the deposits from foreign to domestic ones.
''The court of appeals has made a serious mistake with potentially far-reaching consequences,'' the Government's brief said.
The second issue in the case goes beyond Eurodollar deposits to the more general question of whether the home office may ever be required to make good on deposits in foreign branches. Many Federal bank regulations, such as reserve requirements, do not apply to foreign branches, and as a result, these branches are often able to offer higher interest rates. Foreign deposits are not protected by Federal deposit insurance.
 
Distinctions Ignored
Citibank, which is a subsidiary of Citicorp, is arguing that it has long been understood that foreign depositors bear risks to which domestic deposits are not subject. The appeals court ignored the distinctions that banking policy makes between domestic and foreign deposits, the bank told the Court.
The appeal was also supported by the New York Clearing House, an organization of 12 leading commercial banks. It said that the appeals court's decision ''provides a blueprint for the waging of economic warfare against the United States'' and would encourage foreign governments to confiscate the foreign assets of American banks.
The Court took no action today on a related appeal by Citibank. The bank was found liable last year by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, for repaying a $1,400 deposit a Vietnamese customer had made in the bank's Saigon branch in 1974. The branch was confiscated the next year by the victorious North Vietnamese. In the appeals court, Citibank argued unsuccessfully that it retained no obligation for the Vietnamese deposits once it lost the branch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PHILIPPINES (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (72%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); CITIBANK (NYC); WELLS FARGO BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; DEPOSIT INSURANCE; SUITS AND LITIGATION APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); BANK BRANCHES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA WELLS FARGO & CO (92%); 



147 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Closes Mixed As Traders Focus on Mark

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mixed against major foreign currencies yesterday as traders renewed their interest in the West German mark.
Marc Chandler of Money Market Services International in Chicago said currency dealers directed attention mainly to the mark and bought on speculation that West Germany will have to raise interest rates to stem a possible surge in economic growth.
The Swiss franc was weighed down by heavy selling related to Switzerland's lower interest rates compared with its European neighbors, particularly West Germany, Mr. Chandler said. 
Trading in dollars is expected to be light this week before Friday's report on domestic unemployment.
 
Little Effect in Factory Report
A Government report that United States factory orders fell two-tenths of 1 percent in October evoked little reaction among dollar traders although it reinforced the notion that economic growth is sluggish.
Currency dealers overseas, meanwhile, were said to be closing out positions before the end of the year. Market volume tends to decline toward the end of the year, when dealers are hesitant to risk profits or add to losses.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 143.48 Japanese yen, up from 143.08 on Friday. Later, in London, it rose to 143.57 yen and, in New York, to 143.65, from 143.40 late Friday.
In London, the pound fell to $1.5638, from $1.5665 late Friday. In New York, the pound fell to $1.56225, from $1.5625 late Friday.
Other dollar rates in New York, compared with Friday's late quotes included: 1.78425 West German marks, down from 1.7865; 1.6065 Swiss francs, up from 1.5995; 6.0915 French francs, down from 6.1020; 1,314.50 Italian lire, down from 1,316.50, and 1.16365 Canadian dollars, down from 1.6505.
Precious metals prices declined in what dealers described as a technically motivated correction to a recent powerful run-up.
Gold fell in London to a late bid price of $406.25 an ounce, from $414 bid late Friday. In Zurich, the metal fell to a closing bid of $408, from $415 bid late Friday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $2.79, to close at $409.31.
Silver for current delivery slid to $5.509 an ounce, from $5.663 Friday on New York's Comex. Silver fell in London to a late bid price of $5.60 an ounce, from $5.70 bid late Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%); 



148 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Precious Metal Prices Fall After the Summit Meeting

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Precious metals prices tumbled yesterday, and dealers said the decline came in part because the weekend summit meeting between President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev raised promises of reduced global tensions.
The recent strength of the United States stock market added further pressure on gold prices, which carried over into the silver and platinum markets, the dealers said.
At the close on the Commodity Exchange in New York, the spot December gold delivery settled at $401.10 an ounce, down $12.50 on the day, while the more active February 1990 contract plunged $12.70, to $406.60. The spot December Comex silver delivery settled at $5.525 an ounce, down 15.4 cents, with the more active March contract off 15.8 cents, at $5.63. 
The spot January platinum delivery settled at $503.50 an ounce, down $17 at the New York Mercantile Exchange. The more distant precious metals deliveries are, the higher the price because futures contract prices are calculated to include such costs as storage, insurance and financing.
''Just as gold prices began to climb in Asia right after the Oct. 13 stock market break, it was selling from Asians that triggered today's big setback,'' said Bette Raptopoulos, a metals specialist at Prudential-Bache Securities. ''The selling from the Far East was then followed by considerable unloading by the Swiss and other European interests. So when the Comex opened traders just followed suit. Then a number of technical factors took over.''
Ms. Raptopoulos noted that the weakness in precious metals actually began last week, when many traders started to convert some recent profits into cash or, in the case of institutional investors, began to move back into the equities market in anticipation of a year-end rally. Last week, the spot December Comex gold contract fell $5.70, for example.
Frederick R. Demler, metals economist at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., said the biggest bearish technical factor in gold was the failure of the February contract to stay above $412. Some metals market analysts believe that $412 was the trigger for sell orders for gold because most of the trading above that price represented buying by smaller investors and other latecomers to the market. Why $412? Mr. Demler said the reasons that programmers of computer trading strategies choose particular levels for buying and selling varied.
In any event, Mr. Demler said silver and platinum markets simply followed the gold market, adding: ''The selling was most pronounced in silver after it failed to hold above $6. As for platinum, the thinnest of the precious metals markets, it, too, followed gold although both South Africa and the Soviet Union seem to have reduced their sales of late.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; GOLD; SILVER; PLATINUM METALS MARKETS (92%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (92%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); FUTURES (91%); SPOT MARKET (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 



149 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 22, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
Positive Outlook on Employment in 1990

BYLINE: By Elizabeth M. Fowler

 BODY:
CITING the results of Manpower Inc.'s latest quarterly employment survey, Mitchell S. Fromstein, president of the large international supplier of temporary help, spoke last week of a ''soft landing'' for the economy, not a recession, in 1990.
Manpower, based in Milwaukee, surveyed the managers of more than 14,000 large and small businesses; it found that 65 percent planned no changes in staff size in the first quarter, while 20 percent said they expected to increase their work forces and 12 percent planned cutbacks. The percentages are strikingly similar to those that Manpower found a year ago.
Mr. Fromstein's optimism comes at a time when many people in the New York City area are losing their jobs. Some 1,700 B. Altman & Company employees face unemployment when that retail chain ceases operations, and hundreds of workers on Wall Street are to be dismissed as Merrill Lynch & Company and other brokerage firms pare their operations. Many of the jobs cut in these corporate revampings are in middle management. 
Stressing geographic differences, Mr. Fromstein agreed that in the Northeast there would be an overall drop in hiring but that in some other regions staffing is expected to remain at or near the levels of 1989.
''I would say that anything that looks encouraging like this study would apply to all levels of employment,'' Mr. Fromstein said. ''I am cautiously optimistic. What we don't know is if this hiring strength is driven by economic or demographic conditions.''
A similar view was expressed by the human resources outlook panel of the Conference Board, a New York-based research group that is supported by many corporations. Audrey Freedman, management counselor of the Conference Board and author of many of its reports, summed up the main finding at a recent panel discussion: the economy will avoid a recession next year.
She also emphasized the panel's prediction that ''labor shortages will force companies to hire individuals they would not have employed previously.'' This group of potential workers includes women and recent immigrants.
One panelist, Irving Margol, who is executive vice president, management services group, of Security Pacific National Bank of Los Angeles, said the bank had been advertising for workers in foreign-language newspapers as well as on foreign-language radio and television stations.
''We are also recruiting at shopping malls, sporting events and putting up signs in buses,'' he said.
The obvious conclusion is that companies will be forced to spend more time and dollars not only on recruitment, but also on training newcomers. Training for specific jobs is already a growth industry.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Fromstein spoke about companies' growing demand for Manpower to train their employees. ''We have trained about 285,000 workers, including our own temporaries as well as permanent employees of many of our customers,'' he said.
Training takes on even more importance as corporate managers realize that the United States ''cannot remain competitive without raising productivity of its workers,'' said Mrs. Freedman of the Conference Board. Higher productivity requires lowering costs through more efficient production. ''Only better management of resources - human and capital - can improve it,'' she said.
In a Conference Board study issued a few weeks ago, Mrs. Freedman warned that the nation's living standards would decline in the next decade unless companies raise their productivity.
Manufacturing productivity will continue to rise, advancing about 3 percent in 1990, Mrs. Freedman predicted - a figure in line with annual increases during the 1980's. Agriculture, too, can be counted on to increase productivity in the 1990's in areas like grains, cotton, tobacco, vegetables and fruit, said Mrs. Freedman, who added that telecommunications would be the ''brightest spot'' with annual increases of about 4 percent.
But she estimated that productivity would grow by ''less than 2 percent a year'' in the 1990's in the service industries, like retailing, real estate and professional services.
Among the barriers to productivity gains, Mrs. Freedman said, are failure to communicate with workers, inefficient use of technology, bureaucratic stifling of creativity, and managements that seek to cement their control over a company rather than develop entrepreneurial strategies.Blue Arrowd(manpower)

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAREERS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (96%); USB (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MANPOWERGROUP (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); U S BANCORP (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANPOWER INC; CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; FORECASTS LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); RETAILERS (68%); WRITERS (63%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M MITCHELL S FROMSTEIN (93%); 



150 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: The Twilight of Superpower Summits

BYLINE: By Stephen Sestanovich; Stephen Sestanovich is director of Soviet studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze, said recently that Moscow ''feels immeasurably more comfortable in the international arena than ever before.'' After last weekend's meeting at Malta between George Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev, Soviet leaders are entitled to relax still further: Soviet-American relations have never been so free of irritants.
Virtually nothing remains on the agenda of issues that divided Moscow and Washington during the past decade. Arms control negotiators, once obliged to protect each side's right to modernize its forces, have now been instructed to keep pace with the desire for deeper and deeper cuts. 
The issue of human rights has been similarly transformed. Once a clash of values, at Malta it was a mere review of technicalities. Now that Soviet officials have explained their legislative calendar for passing a new bill on free emigration, working groups will meet to lift the trade restrictions of the Jackson-Vanik Amendment. Secretary of State James Baker has even mused about the circumstances in which the U.S. might not object to the Soviet use of force in preserving domestic order.
As for arms shipments to Central America, which Mr. Baker identified beforehand as the most contentious item for discussion, the President seems to have concluded that Cuba and Nicaragua are keeping their Soviet patron in the dark. Once the beating heart of an evil empire, Moscow is now gently chided for being out of the loop.
The new ''I'm O.K., You're O.K.'' mood is an achievement for Mr. Gorbachev. With it, he has brought Bush Administration policy into line with the far more enthusiastic view of perestroika that has prevailed in Europe, both East and West.
Yet, there is an irony in the timing of this conversion. The Americans have joined the party at the very moment that Soviet relations with Europe may be taking a turn for the worse.
West Germany is the outstanding example. Mr. Gorbachev's trip to the Federal Republic in June, and his part in weakening the East German regime, have given him immense personal popularity. He has neverthless had to spend the past month growling at West German leaders.
German unity, Mr. Gorbachev insists, is not open to discussion; ''history will decide'' the fate of the German states. Ignoring such warnings, Chancellor Helmut Kohl has built a domestic consensus in favor of challenging the status quo.
Attacking this consensus head-on will take a toll on Soviet-West German amity. But there is hardly more promise for Moscow in the indirect route of trying to rally Bonn's allies against reunification. Mr. Gorbachev will discover when he meets President Francois Mitterrand of France tomorrow that West Germany is too important to its partners in the European Community for them to break ranks on this issue.
Soviet frustration in trying to influence the new Europe is not confined to the west. In Eastern Europe as well, Mr. Gorbachev is likely to encounter continuing difficulties. He faces the risk that reformist governments, to cement their legitimacy, will rethink their earlier vows of loyalty to the Warsaw Pact. Electoral pressures may lead even Communist leaders (like those in Hungary) to fan public demands for an early withdrawal of Soviet forces.
Some states will revive territorial claims against Moscow. Already, there are stirrings on this question in Poland, Rumania and even in Finland, all of whom lost territory to the Soviet Union in the past.
Oddly, new economic policies in Eastern Europe may also have damaging consequences for perestroika. These states export much more to the Soviet Union than all the nations of the industrial West put together. U.S. officials now hope for a Soviet economic turnaround but, to promote their own recovery, East Germany, Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia want to reorient their trade. The result will be new disruptions for Soviet industry and new privation for Soviet consumers.
There is no mystery in the disparity between European and American approaches to the Soviet Union. For the U.S., discarding the ''enemy image'' of the other superpower means that every East-West dispute becomes susceptible to compromise. Lesser powers draw the opposite conclusion. Those that have for years been unable to raise the issues that concern them are encouraged by Soviet flexibility to push their own goals harder. They can be less fearful now of how Moscow will react.
This trend, which is fully consistent with (even inseparable from) support for perestroika, gives a nasty reply to one of the favorite ideas of Mr. Gorbachev's foreign policy advisers. They used to promise him that the world's medium powers were full of latent anti-American feeling that was ripe for Soviet exploitation. So far, such assertiveness has been directed at the Soviet Union instead. (The pattern holds outside Europe, too: Japan is less receptive to a compromise on the Northern Islands, India is more irritated by its unbalanced trade with Moscow, and so on.) Facing such problems, how will Mr. Gorbachev conduct himself at the 35-nation Conference on European Security that he and Mr. Bush have just agreed to convene in 1990? The Soviets may hope that this forum will endorse the demilitarization of the two alliances and the removal of all armies to home territories. Yet, such a symmetrical outcome looks harder and harder for Moscow to achieve. Soviet allies are undermining the Warsaw Pact from within, while U.S. allies have just reiterated their interest in a continuing American military presence in Europe.
For governments across Europe, the U.S. contributes to the emergence of a stable new order by keeping at least some troops in place over the long term; the Soviet Union, by withdrawing its forces. The new buzzword in negotiating European security will therefore be asymmetry. It is a measure of how much Mr. Gorbachev has redrawn the horizons of Soviet security policy that his officials do not dismiss such ideas out of hand.
Before Malta, a senior Bush Administration official reportedly said of the meeting ahead, ''It's one-on-one, and at stake is the world.'' In fact, Mr. Gorbachev's revolution ends the heroic age of superpower diplomacy. After Malta, mano a mano summitry looks more and more like an institution of the cold war, a relic of the time when the superpowers, and they alone, could resolve the big issues. When the new shape of the world is decided, it won't be one-on-one at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); MALTA (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ARMS TRADE (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); 

PERSON: SESTANOVICH, STEPHEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



151 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Bush Aides Say Gorbachev Sees Economy as Key

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
In a discussion of Soviet domestic problems with President Bush in Malta, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev called his campaign to end consumer shortages in the Soviet Union ''the ultimate test'' of his leadership, senior Administration officials said today. The Soviet leader reportedly left some American officials with the impression that he was at a loss over how to solve his economic problems.
In talks with Mr. Bush during lunch on Saturday aboard the Soviet cruise liner Maxim Gorky, Mr. Gorbachev also said he felt that his position was secure and not threatened by political opposition, the Administration officials said.
One official said Mr. Gorbachev's remarks seemed to make it clear that he was ''very much not in control of his destiny'' when it came to the economy. Still, the Soviet leader discussed Moscow's intractable economic problems with ''a sober sense of confidence'' that some improvement could eventually be achieved, another official said. 
 
Bush Meets With Cabinet
Mr. Bush said Mr. Gorbachev's remarks made a strong impression in terms of helping him understand the Soviet leader's thinking and approach to events. But they were not the inspiration for Mr. Bush's proposals on improving economic ties with the Soviet Union, which had been worked out in advance and presented before Mr. Gorbachev mentioned economic problems.
As new details emerged today about the two-day meeting in Malta, Mr. Bush, back in Washington, met with his Cabinet and the National Security Council to talk about the new timetable that he and Mr. Gorbachev set for reaching an agreement on reducing strategic nuclear weapons and conventional armed forces in Europe.
''He told his associates today that we're going to get the work done,'' a senior official said. ''The President is determined and he said it would be one thing if we cannot reach agreement because the Soviets are unreasonable, but what will not happen is that we cannot reach agreement within the U.S. Government.''
 
Pleased at Changes
Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev instructed Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze to meet in the Soviet Union in January to discuss three major obstacles to a strategic weapons treaty - sea-launched cruise missiles, encoding of missile-launching data and non-deployed missiles. They said they wanted those problems resolved by the summit meeting they arranged for June, during which they hope to finish work on a treaty that might be signed later in the year.
American officials said they were struck by how pleased Mr. Gorbachev seemed at the Malta meeting with the pace and nature of change in Eastern Europe, telling Mr. Bush repeatedly that he, Gorbachev, had worked to encourage the reforms.
He did not put any limits on what might happen in Eastern Europe, an official said, except when it came to East and West Germany. ''Up until that point, it was incredible to see the leaders of these two countries sitting at a table and saying they were both happy with the situation in Eastern Europe,'' the official said.
But then Mr. Gorbachev made it clear that he and Mr. Bush were far apart on the German issue and that he opposed a unification of the two Germanys. ''He didn't say forever,'' the official said. ''But he did say, 'History created this problem and history will have to solve it,' and he didn't say how long history will be.''
 
Heaping Bowls of Caviar
Mr. Gorbachev began his discussion on the Soviet political and economic situation at Saturday's lunch as liveried waiters passed around heaping bowls of caviar.
American officials said they were struck by the intensity with which Mr. Gorbachev talked.
''I don't believe he is worried about anything in the political sense,'' an official said today. ''But I do think he is very much not in control of his destiny on certain problems, especially the economy.''
Mr. Gorbachev mentioned consumer goods two or three times, officials said. ''The tremendous shortage of consumer goods was very much on Gorbachev's mind throughout the discussion of Soviet domestic issues,'' one official said. ''It may certainly be the defining problem for him.
''He said the solution to that problem represents the ultimate test in his own mind for whether or not he himself has succeeded as a leader.''
Consumer goods have long been in short supply in the Soviet Union, but since Mr. Gorbachev began making changes in the economy the problem has worsened. There have been shortages of sugar and soap in recent months.
 
'A Major Preoccupation'
Other officials said they did not have such a stark impression of Mr. Gorbachev's view of the economy.
''It's clear that this was a major preoccupation for Gorbachev,'' one said. ''He did not convey a sense of alarm or anxiety, but he said he knew what the problems were, that they were very serious problems and he was setting out to find the solutions.''
During the 90-minute lunch discussion on Saturday, the official said, Mr. Bush explained ''the virtues of the free-market system in a way that said: 'We don't want to force this on you. You have to make your own choices, but let me tell you why we think capitalism works.' ''
In their public statements, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev have given relatively little emphasis to their discussions of Eastern Europe, apparently concerned that they not appear to be dictating a future course to their own alliances and perhaps aware that they are not in a position to do so.
But Administration officials said they devoted a large part of their talks, both in the larger sessions and one on one, to Eastern Europe.
''I think Gorbachev succeeded in making it clear that, as a lot of people had begun to suspect, he is not just accepting what is happening but is truly encouraging the kinds of changes that are taking place,'' a senior official said.
''There was a constant repetition of support and encouragement,'' the official said, but he added that the discussions were general and ''on a high philosophical plane'' and did not involve specific proposals or blueprints.
 
'Most Disruptive Element'
In their discussions on Central America, an official said, Mr. Bush told Mr. Gorbachev that arms shipments to Nicaragua and the leftist rebels in El Salvador were ''the single most disruptive element of our relationship.'' But Mr. Bush took pains not to connect the regional conflicts to any particular area of Soviet-American relations. ''He never tied it to anything officially or made it a litmus test on anything,'' the official said.
Brent Scowcroft, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, said the summit left him optimistic for progress in Afghanistan, but he and other Administration officials refused to go into detail.
Both Mr. Scowcroft and Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, dismissed suggestions today that Vice President Dan Quayle disagreed with Mr. Bush about Soviet foreign policy. The Washington Post quoted Mr. Quayle today as saying that despite the improvements in Soviet-American relations, the Soviet Union is still ''a totalitarian Government'' that wants to ''create instability'' in Central America.
''We're talking maybe about a slight difference in perspective,'' Mr. Scowcroft said. ''There's no difference in substance between the two.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Pres. Bush arriving to meet with Cabinet members on the Malta summit meeting (NYT/Jose R. Lopez) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); MALTA (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (68%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (71%); CRUISES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); TRENDS (61%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



152 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Picks 4 Deputy Mayors, Led by a Former Sanitation Chief

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
In his first broad move to put his stamp on City Hall, Mayor-elect David N. Dinkins has chosen four deputy mayors, a corporation counsel and a press secretary to serve at the center of his administration, members of his transition team said yesterday.
Mr. Dinkins's aides said the appointments would not be announced until preliminary background checks were done, but officials said the appointees include Norman Steisel, a former City Sanitation Commissioner, as first deputy mayor, and Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero, the city's Commissioner of Financial Services, as deputy mayor for economic development.
Mr. Dinkins's campaign manager, Bill Lynch, and his acting chief of staff, Barbara J. Fife, will also be deputy mayors. Victor Kovner, a lawyer, will assume the job of corporation counsel, which Mr. Dinkins offered him before his election last month. Albert Scardino, a reporter who covers the news media for The New York Times, will be press secretary. 
Nathan Leventhal, the chairman of the transition committee, said Mr. Dinkins had ''invited and gotten acceptances'' from candidates to fill six posts, ''deputy mayors and others'' and that they would be named as soon as checks by the Department of Investigation are done, possibly by Friday. But he refused to discuss any names.
Word of the appointments seeped out yesterday as Mr. Dinkins faced mounting pressure to name at least some officials to his administration now and as he found news reports about him being dominated by renewed controversy and a Federal investigation into his transfer of stock to his son.
 
To Inspire Confidence
The appointments, naming a mix of longtime aides and experienced city officials, seemed intended both to inspire confidence in Mr. Dinkins's stewardship and to reassure the diverse ethnic and political constituencies that helped elect him.
Mr. Steisel, now a partner at the investment banking concern of Lazard Freres & Company, would not answer any questions yesterday about the possibility of his appointment.
Officials involved in the transition said there would be four deputy mayors, including a first deputy responsible for overall management of the city. That would add one deputy to the scheme currently used by Mayor Edward I. Koch, but does not come close to the seven he named at the beginning of his administration 12 years ago.
Mr. Dinkins has repeatedly said that finding a budget director is among his highest priorities. But one senior aide said yesterday that the budget chief would not be in this first group of appointees.
 
Broad Range of Groups
The Mayor-elect is understood to have decided on several of the appointments some time ago but wanted to wait to announce them together to demonstrate his efforts to reach a broad range of groups. For example, Ms. Hernandez-Pinero, who is Hispanic, was asked only last night to assume her post.
Mr. Lynch is black and a veteran of many liberal Democratic campaigns. He was chief of staff in the Manhattan borough president's office before he took a leave to run Mr. Dinkins's campaign and was replaced by Mrs. Fife. Both Mrs. Fife and Mr. Kovner are Jewish, and associated with liberal causes.
Mr. Steisel, a former deputy budget director and then Sanitation Commissioner in the Koch administration, was widely praised for overseeing the reduction of the number of workers on garbage trucks from three to two, which saved the city many millions of dollars.
 
Financial Advisers
As deputy mayor for economic development, Ms. Hernandez-Pinero, who was formerly a senior aide to Mr. Dinkins in the Manhattan Borough President's office, will round out Mr. Dinkins's group of financial advisers, which also includes such figures as Felix G. Rohatyn, the investment banker and chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation; David Rockefeller, the retired head of the Chase Manhattan Bank, and James D. Robinson 3d, chairman of American Express. She could not be reached for comment.
Mrs. Fife would not discuss any appointments and Mr. Lynch did not return repeated telephone calls seeking comment.
Mr. Scardino last night declined to answer questions about appointments.
 
Won Pulitzer Prize
Before joining The Times, Mr. Scardino was editor of The Georgia Gazette, a weekly newspaper in Savannah that won the Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing in 1984. As Mr. Dinkins's press secretary, he would replace the campaign press secretary, David Fishlow, a former aide to State Attorney General Robert Abrams, who often tangled with reporters during the campaign.
Mr. Kovner did confirm that he had agreed to serve as the city's chief lawyer.
Mr. Dinkins's search committees seeking candidates to head city agencies are to report to him by Monday with suggested names. The search committees are meeting throughout the week and into the weekend to interview candidates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; MAYORS; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS MAYORS (91%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); POLITICS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (71%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); STEISEL, NORMAN; HERNANDEZ-PINERO, SALLY B (COMR); LYNCH, BILL; FIFE, BARBARA J



153 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1757 words

HEADLINE: Fast Food? It Just Isn't Fast Enough Anymore

BYLINE: By DENA KLEIMAN

 BODY:
Welcome to the Age of Zap.
With the ever-accelerating pace of life, the act of eating - once a leisurely undertaking synonymous with pleasure and social interaction -has been reduced to a necessary function not unlike shaving or refueling the car, in the view of food manufacturers, social scientists and others.
Not only is the relationship Americans have with food changing, but the preoccupation with speed is also now forcing fast-food companies and food manufacturers to offer consumers faster and faster options.
Indeed, many fast-food restaurants are scrambling for ways to shave seconds off service by eliminating seats to accommodate customers who no longer have time to sit, by installing computers to accommodate customers who no longer have time to speak, and by eliminating the wasteful ''think time'' that customers take at the counter. At the same time, food manufacturers are taking advantage of consumers' reluctance to wait by introducing fast-food look-alikes that can be prepared quickly in a microwave oven. 
Although data are sparse on exactly how much time Americans spend preparing their food and consuming it, food manufacturers, restaurateurs and others say fast food is no longer fast enough and that staples like the freshly prepared homemade sandwich or can of soup - once considered timesavers - are quickly becoming obsolete.
''People are standing in front of the toaster saying, 'Faster, faster,' '' said Joel Weiner, who was until recently a marketing executive at Kraft General Foods, which recently came up with Zap-a-Pack, a processed cheese spread that can be heated in only a minute by microwave to use as a dip or a sauce. ''It's gotten to the point where it is too burdensome to open a can of soup,'' Mr. Weiner said.
When Americans do find time to eat, they seem to expect less enjoyment from it and accept that as a trade-off, experts say.
''Hunger is a chore to be finished rather than an event to be savored and enjoyed,'' said Robert B. Cialdini, a social psychologist at Arizona State University and the author of ''Influence: The New Psychology of Modern Persuasion'' (Quill, 1985).
In a poll in September by the Gallup Organization, only about one in three adults said he or she typically dined at home with other people and engaged in conversation during meals without other distractions. A majority - 64 percent - watched television, read, worked or did something else while eating. Just over half of those interviewed in the poll, which had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points, said that on a typical night they consumed a meal prepared from scratch. The others said they typically relied on frozen, packaged or takeout meals.
Less than half the 1,225 respondents, who were interviewed by telephone at their homes, said they enjoyed eating ''a great deal.'' ''We've moved beyond grazing and into gulping,'' said Al Rosenfeld, the publisher of Frozen Food Age, a trade publication based in New York.
Clearly, if any one invention is responsible for these changes, it is the microwave oven. Whereas 10 years ago, less than a quarter of American households owned microwave ovens, the food industry estimates that three-quarters do now, creating powerful new expectations by consumers for speed in food preparation and delivery.
And those new expectations have created new challenges for the fast-food industry, which until recently had little competition from the home kitchen.
''Fast food can no longer live up to its name,'' said Mona Doyle, the president of Consumer Network, a Philadelphia concern that does marketing consultation for the food industry. ''There are never any lines at home. With the microwave, you just reach into your freezer and pop it into the oven and zap! it's done.''
At the headquarters of the White Castle System in Columbus, Ohio, Christopher Thomas, the director of marketing, said: ''I don't even like to use the term fast food. What is fast to me may not be fast to you. When you think back to 30 years ago, 60 seconds was fast. Now it's not fast: it's quick.''
It isn't that Americans, who spent some $60 billion last year on fast food, have soured on it. It's just that after double-digit sales growth that lasted into the early 1980's, the pace has slowed and the market has become saturated, creating increased competition among chains.
Some chains, like Arby's, which is based in Atlanta, are experimenting with computerized screens that let customers make selections, to cut down on the 8 to 10 seconds of ''talk time'' they normally take. Wendy's, the hamburger chain based in Dublin, Ohio, recently had staff members take orders from customers standing in line, to reduce the estimated 30 to 40 seconds of ''think time'' at the counter. The G. S. Blodgett Corporation of Burlington, Vt., a leading manufacturer of pizza ovens, has a computerized pizza maker that cuts the preparation and cooking time for commercial pizza to three minutes and is now in use in California.
Because fewer and fewer people want to get into their cars to pick up dinner, Kentucky Fried Chicken is experimenting with home delivery. Pizza Hut is taking pizza to the consumer not only by home delivery but also with a kind of Fotomat-equivalent that lets them order and pick up a pizza in 30 seconds.
''We are looking at things down to the seconds,'' said Roger Rydell, a spokesman for Pizza Hut. He said the company had pizza ovens in student cafeterias, hospitals and malls, taking the product wherever the impetuous consumer might roam. The company has even considered establishing a nationwide toll-free number, so home-delivery customers won't have to consult the telephone directory.
To save time, McDonald's is now giving robots a try at cooking french fries. ''We are always looking at ways of shaving off 25 seconds here, 25 seconds there,'' said Terry Capatosto, the director of media relations for the company in Oak Brook, Ill.
At the same time, big food companies have zeroed in on the fact that people can now prepare fast-food meals at home in less time than it takes to get in a car and go buy them. This has led to one of the most dramatic changes in the food business: the ascent of the frozen sandwich.
Sales of frozen offerings like hamburgers, cheeseburgers and fish sandwiches - which can all be prepared in microwave ovens in 90 seconds to 4 minutes - have exploded from $49 million in 1984 to $153 million in 1988, said Alan Miller, a consultant to Arbitron/SAMI, a market-research concern in New York.
The Campbell Soup Company has introduced frozen soups and sandwiches, Hormel and White Castle are among the many companies offering frozen hamburgers in the supermarket case, and Kraft recently introduced Zapetites, an array of frozen miniature hot dogs and other snacks that can be prepared in a minute.
Food manufacturers are developing other products that set new speed records, like Betty Crocker's new Microrave cake, which takes only four minutes to make in a microwave oven and saves washing a pot.
Many food manufacturers concede that these remarkably fast products leave a lot to be desired when it comes to flavor.
''Clearly you don't get as much pleasure out of food that you microwave,'' said Richard Nelson, the director of market research services for Campbell Soup in Camden, N.J. ''But food today is more of a maintenance function than pleasureable experience. The word trade-off is a real clue that people are willing to accept something inferior as long as it is fast.''
Why Americans are so eager to eat quickly has as much to do with the stresses of two-career families, single parenthood and other aspects of modern life as with other factors, say food anthropologists, social psychologists and others.
''These days there are so many choices,'' said Mr. Cialdini of Arizona State University. ''There are so many options, so much information, so much stimulation that we must deal with each activity in a less fully considered way. It is a regrettable but necessary feature of modern life that we don't take time to smell the roses. We gulp down things that are worth savoring.''
Speed of food preparation and a reduced emphasis on the leisurely sharing of meals carries with it another attraction: the ability to accommodate individual tastes and needs. With frozen entrees that can be prepared in minutes, everyone in the family can have something different for dinner.
''Speed today means being an individual and ordering what you want,'' said George Armelagos, a food anthropologist at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
''Speed has truly liberated the woman,'' said Rita Denny, a senior vice president of Holen North American, a marketing research and management-consulting concern in New York. ''Mom no longer has to be head of house. Household members are more autonomous and providing for themselves.''
Eating fast is nothing new in the United States, said Harvey Levenstein, a social historian at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, and the author of a social history of American food titled ''Revolution at the Table: The Transformation of the American Diet'' (Oxford University Press, 1988).
''Americans are just getting back to their roots,'' Mr. Levenstein said. He explained that they had always bolted their food, until the late 19th century, when the family meal emerged as the central ritual for family life.
''Back in 1830 the idea was, ''Why not get it over with?' '' he said. ''You don't like the taste and you can get on with the things you enjoy more.''
Still, Mr. Nelson of Campbell Soup said he was concerned about what this all means for the future.
''What worries me are the children,'' said Mr. Nelson, who predicted that by 1992 automobiles would come equipped with microwave ovens. ''When you think about imprinting and how you can remember your first date, your first kiss, your first corsage, you have to think of what that first imprinting will be of cooking: which buttons to press on the microwave. I'm not sure where the stove and the oven will fit in.''
Or - it might be said - a decent, carefully savored meal.

GRAPHIC: Photos of a customers using computer to place their orders at Arby's in Denver (NYT/Bruce McAllister) (pg. A1 & C12); graph showing the preparation time at home, from package to plate, in minutes (pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY; LIFE STYLES; FOOD; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR FAST FOOD (92%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (91%); FOOD MFG (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); CHEESE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); STATISTICS (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (64%); 

PERSON: KLEIMAN, DENA



154 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Cease-Fire in Manila Allows For Evacuation of Foreigners

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANILA, Wednesday, Dec. 6

 BODY:
As the military coup attempt against President Corazon C. Aquino continued for a sixth day, rebel troops in the city's business and financial district and the Philippine Government reached a cease-fire today long enough to begin evacuation of hundreds of foreigners trapped in their hotels by the fighting.
By this morning, roughly 500 people, including about 90 Americans, were reported to have been evacuated in Government buses. Several thousand people, including more than 200 Americans, had been trapped since the weekend, when the rebels moved into hotels and office buildings in the financial center, Makati.
But even with the evacuation under way and negotiations to end the standoff continuing, Manila remains a city divided - its business area and rich residential heart paralyzed by 400 rebel snipers and surrounded by loyalist armored vehicles, while the rest of the city goes about its business with surprisingly little sense of crisis. 
What began as an effort to topple the Government of President Corazon C. Aquino has turned into a standoff, with no sign of an early end. Makati seems firmly in the hands of a highly organized, disciplined force of rebels who are convinced that Mrs. Aquino is weakened every day that the stalemate endures.
But a few miles away, where joggers run on a path near the bay, it was hard to find much out of place.
Neither Mrs. Aquino nor the rebels have been able to tap into the ''people power'' that swept President Ferdinand E. Marcos out three years ago. Tired of an economy that will not run and turmoil that will not end, most people here seem sharply critical of both sides.
The negotiations have continued on two fronts, Philippine officials said. The cease-fire discussions apparently had the sole aim of extracting the foreigners trapped in four hotels occupied by the rebels.
Simultaneously, loyalist officers continued negotiations with their own estranged comrades, trying to find an alternative to feared building-by-building gun battles, something many fear could cost hundreds of lives.
The Philippine Red Cross said today that 74 people had been killed in the fighting so far, more than in the worst previous coup attempt against Mrs. Aquino's Government. The latest violence has also left more than 500 wounded.
On Tuesday, the Government troops seemed somewhat at a loss over what to do next. In a tour of the perimeter of the Makati area, Government forces could be seen massed around a large firehouse, positioning armored personnel carriers that bore yellow ribbons to make it clear that they were siding with Mrs. Aquino, who adopted yellow as the color of her campaign against Mr. Marcos three years ago.
 
Firing at Will
But when the troops moved into the center of the business district, a now-deserted area usually jammed with traffic, they fired indiscriminately, with no visible objective. This prompted return fire that was similarly random.
A senior Government adviser with access to the negotiations suggested today that the troops loyal to Mrs. Aquino had little stomach for a showdown with the rebels, who include some of the country's best units.
The adviser also said that ''the military is negotiating with its hands tied'' because it had no power to make the kind of political concessions that the rebels have demanded.
So far, the chief demand is Mrs. Aquino's resignation and new elections. That approach has also been pressed by the country's Vice President, Salvador Laurel, who said again today that he would resign if Mrs. Aquino would step down with him.
 
President Is Uncommunicative
The President has rejected the idea. In the last few days she has virtually disappeared from view, saying little in public about the military standoff.
The Government's troubles extend beyond Manila. In Cebu, 350 miles to the south, rebels still hold the airport and have reportedly wired commercial aircraft on the ground there with explosives, threatening to blow them up if attacked by Government forces.
So far, the Government has let several deadlines for the rebels' surrender pass without mounting any attacks.
For their part, the rebels have been trying to project an image of restraint. They have been polite to hotel guests, according to the few accounts that have emerged from the sealed-off buildings in Makati, and a leader of the group, Gregorio Honasan, issued a statement that seemed aimed at allaying fears in the United States that the coup leaders are anti-American.
 
Not Fighting U.S., Leader Says
''The United States of America is not our enemy,'' he said after the Bush Administration sent F-4 fighter planes over Manila to keep rebel aircraft out of the sky. ''To this great country and to our foreign friends and allies, we wish to assure them that our undertaking is purely internal to our country and is not intended to prejudice their legitimate rights or interests in the Philippines.''
Mr. Honasan, a former lieutenant colonel who led a 1987 coup attempt, then escaped from prison last year, asked all foreign governments ''not to allow themselves to be used in any manner to defend the criminal interests of a regime that has become the enemy of the Filipino people.''

GRAPHIC: Map of Manila showing location of Makati (NYT) (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); COUPS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); SHOOTINGS (88%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; AQUINO, CORAZON C (PRES)



155 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Whatever the Outcome, Aquino Stands to Lose

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANILA, Dec. 5

 BODY:
President Corazon C. Aquino may yet find a neat way to finish off the most serious coup attempt of her four years in office, but her ability to deal with widespread complaints about her administration has been severely undermined.
More important, perhaps, is the damage done to the Philippines' fledgling sense of the rule of law, the nurturing of which is Mrs. Aquino's proudest achievement.
Though she and her Government seem to have survived, they are much weakened. The democratic institutions and constitutional processes she helped to re-establish in the ''people power'' uprising of 1986 have been brazenly challenged by a divided military she thought had reconciled itself to political control. 
The population that rallied to her yellow banner and confronted Ferdinand E. Marcos's tanks has held back this time in ambivalence or has regarded the sometimes brutal street warfare as a sort of spectacular entertainment.
 
A Blow to Nationalism
The nationalism inspired by the downfall of Mr. Marcos - a sense of independence and unity historically missing in this agglomeration of long-colonized peoples - has been deflated by the intervention of the United States and its jets in this affair, no matter how dire the circumstances or delicate the rules of engagement.
And most seriously for her own future, Mrs. Aquino's most substantial achievement - three years of modest but steady economic growth despite crippling debt - has been given a severe knocking.
The country's economic heart, the Makati district in Manila, is held hostage by rebel soldiers and surrounded by loyalist troops. Tourism, always high at Christmas, is bound to be affected by the coup attempt.
Investor confidence, crucial for the creation of new jobs for a rapidly growing population, will suffer sharply from this renewed sense of instability and chaos. A Philippines-based mutual fund, which Mrs. Aquino inaugurated with such pride on Wall Street just last month, has taken a beating.
 
'An Unmitigated Disaster'
When finance and commerce eventually resume in Makati, they are expected to suffer badly. Diplomats say the Manila composite index, which was at near-record highs, is likely to drop as much as 30 percent when trading resumes.
''This coup is an unmitigated disaster,'' said a Western diplomat here.
A senior Philippine intelligence official who has long struggled for constitutional rule said: ''I have a deep sense of tragedy. We've been here before. Why are we here again?'' Senator Rene V. Saguisag, an Aquino supporter, said, ''The setback is unquantifiable in terms of the rebuilding of our institutions and our economy.''
With the squandering of national resources, he said, ''it will now become much harder for the President or anyone else to deliver the basic services everyone wants, and the rebels who make it harder for us to do our job will now blame us for being unable to deliver.''
Even before the coup, said Teodoro Benigno, Mrs. Aquino's former spokesman, the Government was perceived by many Filipinos as indecisive, directionless and unable to control a corrupt bureaucracy. There have been accusations of corruption among her own family and colleagues.
 
Services Deteriorate
Basic services like transportation, electricity, telephones, water and garbage collection have been deteriorating, making daily life for many urban residents increasingly annoying, time-consuming, unpredictable and fetid. Government promises of improvement have not produced results; Mrs. Aquino's ratings in the opinion polls has been plunging. Only a month ago, in an interview, she spoke elegiacally of her presidency and said she had decided not to run again in 1992.
The exercise of democracy itself has been an uneven and sometimes trivial one, diplomats say.
The members of Congress elected after Mrs. Aquino's triumph are collectively regarded as petty, posturing and themselves corrupt. The democratic opposition to her Government, which includes her own Vice President, Salvador H. Laurel, and her former Defense Minister, Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, are widely thought to be cynical opportunists possibly involved in the latest coup attempt.
''In the Philippines we don't yet have the cultural and political bedrock belief in democracy of the West,'' Mr. Benigno said. He called Mrs. Aquino ''the light'' of the democratic revolution, but said it ''begins to sputter,'' and with it he the idea of democracy itself flickers.
 
Stature 'Badly Battered'
Senator Saguisag said that ''the principle of democracy itself has been saved,'' but that Mrs. Aquino herself must begin ''to lay down the law.'' ''One hopes for a higher sense of urgency,'' he said.
Mr. Benigno agreed and expressed worry that Mrs. Aquino might not survive the political and economic tests to come. With her popularity already declining, he said, her political stature ''has been badly battered by this last coup.''
With the economy already in difficulty, Mr. Benigno said he feared increased popular unrest as prices rise, electricity blackouts continue and the gap between rich and poor increases.
The possibility of another coup cannot be ruled out, he said. ''She realizes the shadow of the military is closing around her.''
If the edge of precipice unleashes her instinct for self-preservation, he said, she may yet respond as her supporters would wish - ''mounting the horse and being perceived to move strongly into the fray, even by declaring a state of emergency or martial law.''
But he said that if Mrs. Aquino ''stonewalls instead and reverts only to prayer, it may be the end of her.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT COUPS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); JOB CREATION (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (63%); STOCK INDEXES (61%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; AQUINO, CORAZON C (PRES)



156 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: DRUG WAR STALLED IN 2 KEY COUNTRIES

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru

 BODY:
Though President Bush announced in September that he was sending several hundred million dollars to fight drugs in South America, no new funds have reached Peru and Bolivia, the world's two main growers of coca.
As appropriations move slowly through Congress and administrative procedures are completed, American officials here say it is unlikely that money to carry out the President's program will begin flowing before February. ''The new anti-drug strategy hasn't arrived here yet,'' a senior United States official said.
As a result, little is being done to stop the growth of the cocaine business in either country. Peasants are expanding coca fields, and shipments of semi-refined cocaine from Peru are picking up after a brief decline. Also, more of the final processing, usually done in Colombia, appears to be taking place in Peru, United States officials said. 
In Peru, where a guerrilla war is intensifying, the army is pursuing a strategy that is allowing coca growers and drug traffickers to prosper.
Shining Path, Peru's main guerrilla organization, has become deeply involved in the narcotics industry, serving as broker for coca growers, collecting taxes from cocaine traffickers and defending both from security forces.
The army field commander, Brig. Gen. Alberto Arciniega has been trying to root out the guerrillas but is steering clear of the growers and traffickers. Interfering with the growers, he says, would drive them into a closer alliance with the guerrillas. As for the traffickers, he says he does not have the strength to take on them and the guerrillas simultaneously.
 
A Cocaine Boom Town
United States officials say aircraft landing fees that the guerrillas have been collecting from traffickers, as well as payments from coca farmers, are being used to improve the cocaine boom town of Uchiza, where General Arciniega has his headquarters, and to buy food for the general's troops.
Announcing his new anti-drug program on Sept. 5, President Bush said he was allocating $261 million for Peru, Bolivia and Colombia, mostly for the military and the police.
Colombia received $65 million in emergency military and police assistance shortly after President Virgilio Barco declared all-out war on drug traffickers in August. But the Bush Administration has made no special funding requests for Peru and Bolivia.
The main coca-growing areas are crucial targets for reducing the flow of cocaine to the United States, American officials say. Yet one senior official here said, ''There are a good deal of misgivings among people in Washington, in both the executive branch and in Congress, as to whether you can effectively invest money in anti-drug programs in Peru.''
Neither Peru nor Bolivia, whose economies depend on income from the drug business, has done a great deal in the past to counter cocaine production, and both remain equivocal on how much effort they are willing to make. Both Governments say they want to reduce production and crude refining of coca, but both say the United States should place less emphasis on military and police action and more on economic programs aimed at getting farmers to voluntarily switch crops.
 
Opposition to Herbicides
Peru has halted the forced manual eradication of coca crops, and eradication efforts in Bolivia have slowed. American officials have been testing herbicides in Peru, but opposition to their use is running high. ''Who can guarantee that these chemicals will not ruin our fields forever?'' a senior Peruvian military officer asked.
Both Peru and Bolivia are grappling with severe economic problems. President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia declared a state of emergency last month and jailed hundreds of union leaders and teachers who he said threatened his Government's anti-inflation policies with their wage demands. In Peru, the gross national product fell by 20 percent last year, and inflation is running at an annual rate of 2,500 percent.
In the past, almost all of the anti-drug work in Colombia, Peru and Bolivia has been done by the police. The armed forces argue that their task is to guard against invasion and subversion, and some officers also worry that bribery by cocaine traffickers would corrupt their forces.
But the Bush Administration wants to get the armed forces involved and is offering them the major share of its money for the region. In Peru, for example, $39 million is to go to the armed forces, $26 million to the police.
The armed forces have started carrying out some anti-drug operations in Colombia, but most of the work there is still being done by the police.
Senior Peruvian military officers say they plan to use the new United States money to intensify their campaign against the guerrillas and to try to prevent the smuggling of chemicals needed in the refining of cocaine. United States officials say they accept the Peruvian argument that the guerrillas must be attacked first, opening areas in which the police will be able to move against drug traffickers.
But they are also trying to get the military to end their tolerance of the growers and traffickers and to cooperate with the police. ''It is enormously frustrating to all of us that things are going so slowly,'' an American official said. ''There is a sense of urgency in what we're trying to do. But that urgency and frustration are tempered by a desire to make real achievements and not just spend money.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); BOLIVIA (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); 

COMPANY: SHINING PATH (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOLIVIA; PERU

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; COCA (PLANT); COCAINE COCAINE (93%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); DRUG POLICY (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FARM LABOR (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TREASTER, JOSEPH B GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



157 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Bush Proposing Talks in U.S. on Global Warming

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
In a policy shift, President Bush has proposed that the United States sponsor an international conference in Washington next fall to begin negotiating a treaty on global warming.
Until now, White House officials have resisted a specific commitment to begin such negotiations, choosing instead to play down the urgency of the global warming issue. In recent months, however, Mr. Bush has faced pressure from members of Congress, Administration officials and several European nations to take stronger action.
The President made the treaty proposal at the Malta summit conference with the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev. The United States and the Soviet Union lead in emissions of carbon dixoide, which scientists say is accumulating in the atmosphere and contributing to global warming. 
 
A Hint of Greater Action
The Bush Administration has made no specific commitment to reduce such emissions. But in seeking an international conference, the United States is tacitly acknowledging that it will take further steps, environmentalists say.
As host of such a conference, the United States is likely to subject itself to heavy pressure to make specific commitments. Representatives of several environmentalist groups, which have criticized Mr. Bush for failing to deal with the global warming issue, said the President would not have made the offer unless he was prepared to move ahead more quickly.
Administration spokesmen today denied that the President had shifted his strategy, and suggested that the offer was part of a natural policy evolution. ''I don't think for a moment it represents a change of heart,'' said Dr. D. Allan Bromley, the President's science adviser. ''This really is part of a coherent program that we have been working on for a long time.''
''Whether it's evolution or revelation, I think the President is to be congratulated on taking this initiative,'' said Senator John Heinz, a Pennsylvania Republican who has criticized the President's policies on climate change.
 
Gore Is Wary
But Senator Albert Gore Jr., a Tennessee Democrat and another critic of Mr. Bush's climate-change policies, said, ''It remains to be seen whether this is a real change.'' Mr. Gore termed the proposal a ''begrudging acceptance of political reality.''
At the summit conference, Mr. Bush also offered to convene in Washington next spring an international meeting of scientific, environmental and economic officials to address climate change. The Soviet Union did not respond to Mr. Bush's proposal to host the treaty conference, a White House spokesman said today. The President's offer will be formally considered by the United Nations Environment Program, under whose auspices international talks on climate change are now taking place.
The United States and the Soviet Union, along with Japan, have been hesitant to discuss negotiating a treaty on global warming because of doubts about whether emissions of carbon dioxide and other so-called greenhouse gases are changing the climate. Stabilizing and reducing carbon dioxide emissions, produced by the burning of fossil fuels like coal and oil, would have enormous social and economic costs.
The Administration has been divided about how quickly to move on global warming. John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, and Dr. Bromley have urged a deliberate pace until more data are available.
The United States has backed a United Nations-sponsored panel that is scheduled to report its findings next fall.
The report would be followed by an international conference aimed at obtaining a general consensus. Then, a second round of talks would produce specific national commitments on cuts in emissions.
Other Administration officials, like William K. Reilly, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, have advocated more aggressive steps to show that the United States considers global warming a serious environmental threat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); MALTA (57%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE; TREATIES; WEATHER; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; GREENHOUSE EFFECT CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (93%); GLOBAL WARMING (93%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (74%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: GOLD, ALLAN R; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



158 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: DEFICIT AND TAXES TRY LEGISLATORS

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
Faced with voters who threaten them with political and even physical harm, Massachusetts legislators are trying again this week to figure out how to go about the distasteful business of raising taxes.
The stakes are particularly high for George Keverian, the House Speaker who lobbied hard for a $1.2 billion tax package that died on the floor of the House on Friday.
Mr. Keverian, a Democrat who is a candidate for state treasurer, has tried to fill a leadership vacuum left earlier this year when Gov. Michael S. Dukakis announced he would not seek re-election.
But in a state where the Republican presence is so small that the battles in the Democratic Party are what count, Mr, Keverian was unable to muster enough support to pass the tax package, even after pressuring his committee chairmen by suggesting that anyone not planning to support it should resign. One chairman did resign, another offered to do so, and six others shrugged and voted against the measure. 
All this only adds to the bleak economic picture in Massachusetts, where the deficit for this fiscal year is about $1.2 billion, the worst in state history. Mr. Dukakis has called for a tax increase before the end of the year to cover the deficit. Only the Massachusetts House can introduce tax legislation, so the action will have to start there.
 
Package Was Doomed, Some Say
The tax package that fell apart Friday would have raised the capital-gains tax retroactively to Jan. 1, pushing it to 7.5 percent from 5 percent. The package also called for a 2-cent increase in the sales tax, which is now at 5 cents on the dollar, and an increase by 10 cents a gallon by 1992 for the gasoline tax.
Privately and publicly, many legislators - all of whom are up for re-election next year - said they believed such increases were doomed from the start. Some wondered why the tax package was introduced before a $300 million spending-reduction bill was voted on in the Senate. Mr. Keverian said he wanted to go ahead and act on the tax package to save time.
''There's no argument now that $1.2 billion was just too large for anybody's personality,'' said Representative Robert A. Havern, a Democrat who is a member of the House Committee on Taxation.
The lack of support for the House package is considered a reflection of a bitter general attitude toward additional taxes.
 
'Wrong Thing to Do'
''I voted against it because I just think it's the wrong thing to do,'' said Representative Robert Cerasoli, who resigned his chairmanship of a House committee before he voted. ''There are many, many accounts in the budget that could be cut. Right now, all the little people are being hurt.''
''That is the public mood,'' said Representative Steven Pierce, the Republican minority leader. ''When there are hundreds and hundreds of bureaucrats paid very well and with impressive benefit packages, and the government talks about cutting services, that fuels public cynicism.''
That cynicism has produced an intense wave of vitriol toward public officials. Representative Patricia Fiero's receptionist took a call from a man who said he would used a chainsaw on the Democrat's house if she voted for the tax increase. ''One of my closest friends in the House is a single woman who is really afraid to go home at night,'' she said.
 
'They Call Up Very Rudely
Mr. Keverian, whose weight exceeds 300 pounds, said he gets 30 to 50 letters a day and has received as many as 1,000 phone calls, many of them hostile. ''Mainly they call up very rudely, talking about my weight,'' he said. ''They say things like: 'You big fat jerk. If you can't control your own weight, how can you control the budget?' Now I turn my tape recorder on only to get depressed.''
The capital-gains provision, which was considered the main measure of support for the package, was defeated by a vote of 94-64, and the rest was withdrawn. It is being revised in committee, but when a new version will be introduced is anybody's guess.
The latest round is already looking ugly. Mr. Keverian has indicated he would consider asking for broad cuts in state aid to local governments, a form of aid that pays for police officers and teachers, among other necessities. That met an immediate public outcry. ''The point is, if the mood is such that we cannot convince a majority of the House members that there should be a revenue program,'' Mr. Keverian said, ''then what, pray tell, do you do if you have a deficiency and you can't raise money? The options are to borrow, which you may not be able to do without a steady flow of revenue, or to cut.''
The total budget deficit for the current fiscal year, which ends June 30, is $1.25 billion, the largest in state history. Last July, Governor Dukakis outlined spending cuts that he said would solve the deficit, then estimated at just under $500 million. By October, the state was lacking another $500 million in revenues, a number that was quickly revised up to $750 million. A $600 million tax package proposed by the Governor in January was rejected by legislators without a vote.
Poor forecasting by state agencies has been blamed for the gap between expectations and reality. But most legislators now agree that figuring out who to blame is less urgent than figuring out what roles taxes will play in balancing the $13 billion budget, which is required by law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: LEGISLATURES; TAXATION TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SALES TAX (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); FUEL TAX (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); GASOLINE (64%); BUDGET CUTS (61%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L; KEVERIAN, GEORGE (SPEAKER)



159 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Vermont Court Blocks Homes in Deer Habitat

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MONTPELIER, Vt., Dec. 5

 BODY:
The Vermont Supreme Court has blocked the construction of a vacation-home development on the ground that it would deprive about 20 whitetail deer of a vital winter habitat.
The court, in a ruling announced Monday, upheld a decision by the State Environmental Board to deny an environmental permit for the 33-home development in the Stratton area. The permit is required to show that there is no threat to wildlife or the environment. 
The development, proposed by Southview Associates and John Lese of Rye, N.Y., would have been on 88 acres in a protected deer habitat. Six deer would have been directly affected, although the site supports about 20 whitetail deer over the winter.
The board denied the project in 1987, saying the habitat was the only such area within a 10.7-square-mile region that contained softcover critical to deer in the winter.
 
Decision Is Hailed
''It's certainly a wonderful decision,'' said Stephanie Kaplan, executive director of the Environmental Board. ''It strengthens the wildlife habitat in this state and the animals themselves.'' The case was considered so important by environmentalists that Attorney General Jeffrey Amestoy decided to argue it in person before the high court.
''Many developments do have an impact on wildlife habitats,'' Mr. Amestoy said. He added that the decision would affect development in Vermont and that it might have an impact on other pending cases, including a Killington Ski Area proposal to build a snow-making pond near a black bear habitat.
This was the first challenge to the process involving a wildlife habitat under the environmental law. But Southview challenged the board's decision, arguing that the development would not threaten the whitetail species, would not affect the scenic beauty of a natural area and would contribute more to the economy of the state than deer hunting.
Mr. Lese, the developer, said Monday that he could not comment on the ruling because he had not seen it.
During the Supreme Court arguments in October, Mr. Lese's lawyer, Raymond Perra, told the justices, ''This trial is about six deer.
''The deer herd is so large and healthy, it is not an endangered species,'' he said. ''Nor is this particular habitat necessary for the survival of the species.''
Vermont's deer herd is estimated to number about 90,000.
The court upheld the board's conclusion that ''the environmental and recreational loss to the public from the destruction and imperilment of the habitat is not outweighed by economic, social, cultural, recreational or other benefit to the public from the project.''
Nor did Southview employ ''all feasible and reasonable means of preventing or lessening the destruction and imperilment of the deer habitat,'' the board found.
Finally, the board could not exclude ''the possibility of less intensive development in other areas of the site.''
As a result of the development,'' the board wrote, ''it is likely that the deer will abandon the remaining cover altogether and those that remain will be less likely to survive due ot the high potential of stress created by wintertime noise and activity from people, vehicles, and pets,'' the board wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: VERMONT SUPREME COURT (91%); VERMONT SUPREME COURT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VERMONT

SUBJECT: HOUSING; DEER ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ANIMALS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); SKIING (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); SKIING FACILITIES (64%); 



160 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Communism, Exposed

 BODY:
Harmonious in mood. Conciliatory on arms. Cooperative on investment and trade. President Bush brimmed with good will toward Mikhail Gorbachev at their Malta summit talks - and small wonder. He knows what terrors may await the Soviet leader. All the astonishing changes that Mr. Gorbachev has already unleashed on the Communist world are mere economic prologue.
Mr. Gorbachev's plan to restructure the Soviet economy has touched only the surface of Soviet society. If perestroika is to succeed, it will have to be far more ambitious. The ultimate goal must be a system that relies on prices determined by a market, not on the commands of bureaucrats. 
Why does that goal embrace possible terrors? Because neither Mr. Gorbachev nor anyone else, anywhere, knows how to decentralize an economy strangled by an entrenched bureaucracy. There are no historical precedents - nor even theoretical models - to guide the transition.
What Mr. Gorbachev does know is that price decontrol threatens every Soviet citizen and his own political survival. It is not surprising that he is not yet ready to expose Communism to a market price system, and has put price reform on indefinite hold.
But in the meantime he wants to prepare his economy and population for more radical reform. He will need help, which is exactly what President Bush pledged at Malta. It's the right step, as an understanding of the Soviet economy makes clear.
The Soviet Union suffers from excessive central planning. Economic signals are so screwy that farmers feed bread to their animals because it is cheaper than unprocessed grain. Consumer items are either nonexistent or shoddy. The system stagnates. Some central planning can be preserved. But a lot has to go.
The core of perestroika is to decentralize decision making. Plant managers, not Moscow bureaucrats, would decide what and how to produce. But this would mean giving plant managers the right to decide who to hire and fire and what equipment and materials they need to buy. Wholesale trade among companies would replace assignments by central planners. But decentralized trade can work only if managers can respond to prices that reflect true economic value. That means prices must be stripped of unwarranted subsidies. The implication is that unproductive enterprises will perish. And if managers are to buy equipment and materials, they must be able to bid for bank loans by paying interest.
Finally, if businesses can hire and fire, workers will be threatened with unemployment. All of this would be new - and frightening. There is no guarantee that perestroika would survive the political storm.
The biggest economic obstacle to price reform is ''ruble overhang.'' Soviet citizens are hoarding billions of rubles because - at the low, controlled prices - goods move instantly and there is nothing left on store shelves to buy. If prices were decontrolled these shortages would disappear, but only because the excess rubles would ignite an inflation that would ruin the poor. While the overhang endures, widespread shortages cannot be ended. Soviet economists are flirting with several solutions, more ingenious than promising.
Mr. Gorbachev has begun to prepare the economy for price reform. Defense expenditures and investment have been cut back to make way for production of more consumer goods. Government deficits, currently three times larger than in the U.S., will be pared.
He needs more time, which is where Mr. Bush comes in. The United States can't solve Mr. Gorbachev's problems. But it can provide foreign investment and favorable trade relationships. And Washington can provide credit if the Soviets need to import desperately needed food and other consumer items.
That's exactly what Mr. Bush pledged last weekend. None of the specifics will have an immediate impact. But taken together they assure Mr. Gorbachev that America will help out in a crisis. The Soviet leader has provided no clear plan for the future, but he'll need help, and courage, to move his country's economy to the terrifying but necessary next level. If Mr. Bush emboldened him, he will have done all America can do.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TRENDS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



161 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Express-Bus Lines and Commuters Can't Afford a Higher Fare

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The Transit Authority has proposed an increase in the city's express bus fare from $3.50 to $4.60 - a whopping 31.4 percent increase (news story, Dec. 2)! Even a 50-cent increase would be a hardship for the more than 100,000 commuters who use our service daily from the Bronx, Queens and Brooklyn to get to their jobs in Manhattan. Since private operators are contractually obligated to New York City to seek the same increases as the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, we will be forced to raise our fares to the level of city-operated commuter express bus lines.
In transportation, the only purpose of a fare increase is to increase revenues. An increase in the express bus fare will have the converse effect: it will decrease revenues. The proof is in the last fare increase. In 1986, when the express bus fare was raised from $3 to $3.50, we lost 20 percent of our riders, and as a result generated less revenue with the higher fare than we did when the fare was at $3. We project another 20 percent falloff in ridership with just a 50-cent increase. Once ridership falloff reaches 12 percent, the so-called financial benefits of the higher fare are negated. 
The effects of even a 50-cent increase - let alone $1.10 - would be devastating. It would force commuters to pay an exorbitant fare, it would drive private operators out of business, and the city - which is already economically hard pressed - would be forced to pay millions of dollars in additional subsidies to those operators able to survive. Studies have also shown that those commuters who are driven from the system would opt for private car services, their own autos and illegal minivans to get to work, causing more traffic congestion and pollution in Manhattan.
Express bus commuters have already paid a disproportionate share of fare increases this decade. The last three increases in subway and local bus fares in 1981, 1984 and 1986 totaled 56 percent, while express bus fares for the same period jumped 103 percent. The cost of living during the same period rose only 25 percent. In addition, express bus commuters in the Bronx, Queens and Brooklyn already pay as much as $40 more to commute to Manhattan than their Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk county and Connecticut neighbors who use Metro North and the Long Island Rail Road.
We do not need this fare increase, and our commuters should receive a waiver this time around. When was the last time a group of private express bus operators in this city opposed a fare increase of any amount?
 
EDWARD ARRIGONI
Vice President, Mass Transit
Operators of New York
Jamaica, Queens, Dec. 4, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; BUSES; FARES MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COST OF LIVING (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); 

PERSON: ARRIGONI, EDWARD



162 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Don't Blame Program Trading, Blame the Market;
The Governor's Role

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was dismayed by Senator Thomas F. Eagleton's resignation from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, but his Op-Ed article of Nov. 14 (''Chicago's Markets: Corrupt to the Core'') still came as a surprise. As a public governor of an exchange myself, I find the role a complicated one. My comments refer only to how I view our exchange, for generalizations cannot cover all exchanges. 
My obvious task is to defend the public interest, but beyond prevention of fraud and compliance with exchange and Commodity Futures Trading Commission regulations, there are many issues and responsibilities ranging from budgets to staffing and, of vital interest, maintenance of orderly markets and liquidity.
All boards must be wary of cliques and insiders. With floor brokers, commission houses and trading houses all represented on our board, it is difficult for any small group of insiders to dominate the exchange.
Disciplinary functions are the responsibility of the governors, all of whom receive summaries of violations and penalties. Any two governors can request a review for the next board meeting, and the board can recommend appointment of an appeal panel to review the lower committees' decisions. This is also the ultimate exchange appeal panel, and the practice has been that it is always headed by a public governor.
A defendant can next appeal to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; virtually everyone who appears before our appeal panel does so, and I am pleased to say the C.F.T.C. has generally left our decisions and penalties intact.
Regarding the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, it no doubt lacks the clout of the Securities and Exchange Commission but it is also a much newer agency. Congressional reauthorization every three years is scarcely reassuring and that should be corrected forthwith. The exchanges do have considerable power with Congress, as Senator Eagleton says, and independence from that power is vital if the commission is to operate properly.
Self-regulation is not a myth when the exchanges police themselves well. At our exchange the audit trails are among the best, yet inevitably there are areas for improvement.
We are hopeful that hand-held recording devices, among other things, will narrow the areas of abuse. A vigilant compliance staff and responsible board of governors must have timely and accurate data on which to base their self-discipline. Other steps will follow. The exchanges are essential parts of the world economies. I believe that on our exchange and on others as well the customer can expect equitable treatment. But just as commission houses have an obligation to know their customers, so must the customer know his or her broker. There always will be unscrupulous operators in any business, and the commodity business is no exception.
Public governors have a difficult role. My associate public governor and I are up for re-election every year, and while we leave the room during the discussion and vote, I expect that the decision is not unanimous to re-elect.
That's fine; the positions we take are not always popular nor should they be. One of these days I won't be re-elected, but when that happens it will be for senility or a too-aggressive defense of principles - and that's fine too.
 
ERIC P. BIERRIE
New York, Nov. 20, 1989
 The writer is a member of the Commodity Exchange board of governors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (93%); CME GROUP INC (58%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (83%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; COMMODITIES FUTURES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AUDITS (66%); 

PERSON: BIERRIE, ERIC P; EAGLETON, THOMAS F CRAIG THOMAS (74%); 



163 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Don't Blame Program Trading, Blame the Market;
Trouble With Futures

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Alan C. Greenberg's letter (Nov. 14) about index arbitrage and program trading recommends using ''circuit breakers'' and other devices to mitigate potential damage to financial markets from these activities. But he and other analysts, including the Brady Commission, don't get to the root of the problem, namely, trading in futures contracts per se.
Buyers and sellers of futures contracts, either in stock index futures or commodities or currencies, etc., agree to complete a transaction at some future date, usually 30 to 180 days from the date of trade execution. However, 99.9 percent of all futures contracts are liquidated, which means that 99.9 percent of all transactions entered into are never consummated during the life of the contract. The millions of futures contract trades executed each year representing trillions of dollars are in reality engagements for mutual speculation conducted in an environment of institutionalized chicanery which, except for the employment of several thousand floor brokers in Chicago and New York, serve no useful economic purpose. 
In addition, 80 to 90 percent of all speculators in futures contracts (mostly the little guy) traditionally lose money from these transactions. And the primary regulators of futures exchanges, namely the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the governing bodies of Chicago Board of Trade and other futures exchanges, are graduated floor brokers who unfortunately enjoy many of the same attributes of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board that has regulated savings and loan banks so irresponsibly over the last 10 years.
However, what's really troublesome is that on occasion, activities in futures-exchange pits take on a life of their own, oblivious to the real world. For example, in 1980 when the Hunt brothers cornered the gold and silver futures markets, the ''circuit breakers'' triggered by moves up to the limit in gold and silver prices did not halt the crescendo of gold prices to $870 per ounce and silver to $50 per ounce. During one period, gold and silver futures went up to the limit some 20 days in a row. The inflationary impact of this futures market activity was almost devastating: long-term interest rates exceeded 20 percent and the United States came close to becoming a banana republic with rampant inflation.
The obverse of the above - particularly a series of limit-down days in stock index futures - can create 1929-type disaster both for financial markets and the world's economy.
Why should we be subjected to a risk of this magnitude, however remote? Better that arbitrage and other program-trading schemes employing futures markets be eliminated from the panoply of financial markets. Congress and the Bush Administration should promptly initiate these re-forms since it is unreasonable to expect the Chicago Board of Trade and others voluntarily to give up untold profits each year for the good of mankind.
 
S. GEORGE GIANIS
New York, Nov. 27, 1989
 The writer heads an investment banking company.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (93%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (93%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FUTURES TRADING; ARBITRAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME FUTURES (98%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (69%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GIANIS, S GEORGE ALAN C GREENBERG (74%); 



164 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
A Tour Guide Who Sidesteps All the Schmaltz

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Marvin Gelfand grew up in a Brooklyn family faithful to a tradition prevalent when housing was far more abundant. They moved twice a year to take advantage of the month's free rent offered to new tenants.
This was an older, bolder New York - at least in memory, and what else is there? Mr. Gelfand, now 55 years old, remembers the sun glinting off hot asphalt, teeming peddlers' markets, ''the hugeness of the Irish cop.'' People didn't realize how lucky they were: ''The subways more or less worked, the libraries stayed open, the museums were free and the Dodgers were a going concern,'' he said. 
Nostalgia? Certainly, but not purposeless nostalgia. This is a story about how a young man fell in love with the world's greatest city, got lots of education, developed a point of view and ended up making a career out of leading people around town and telling them a thing or three. He became a tour guide.
Some quick detail: A scholarship to Cornell, then on to Columbia for a Ph.D. A professor at several colleges, then editing a book review. When the review moved out of New York in the early 1980's, he noticed the surging popularity of tours, long an institution in London and Paris. Well, why not? Mr. Gelfand led a ''Lovers and Losers'' tour for St. Valentine's Day trekkers. He was off and walking.
He loved it. Being a tour guide afforded him a captive audience, and the opportunity to flaunt a pugnacious, anti-authoritarian personality. ''I'm a street kid,'' he said. ''I see a lawyer in a pinstripe suit and I start throwing darts.''
He had joined a fraternity whose members range from college professors to former cab drivers.
Some specialize in buses, but purists prefer to let their feet do the walking. Most of the best work for several organizations - including the 92d Street Y, the Municipal Art Society and travel companies.
A colorful sampling of these self-described street warblers gathers monthly at an Upper West Side pub. The group includes a retired police captain who specializes in tours of Hell's Kitchen, a gourmand who noshes through the Lower East Side, people who can find ghosts in all five boroughs and a man who takes you to a SoHo shop where people spend $150 on polyester jackets. The net effect is a beery cacaphony of minute information, wild opinion and shameless self-promotion.
The other night, Mr. Gelfand encountered James S. Kaplan, a Wall Street lawyer (pinstripes, of course) who also leads excellent tours. The two enjoy a continuing duel. When Mr. Kaplan suggested that Tammany Hall wasn't all bad, Mr. Gelfand accused him of sanctioning corruption. And so on and on.
''You've got it all wrong, Jim!'' Mr. Gelfand shouted.
There are good days and bad days in the tour game. Mr. Gelfand was recently herding a Long Island synagogue group, about half of them children, through the Lower East Side. ''We don't want to see this through a haze of schmaltz,'' he began.
He told how these low-rise blocks were once a filthy slum and the world's largest Jewish city. Immigrants were crammed 14 to a room, sweatshops were rampant, anarchists railed. For the desperately poor, economics superseded morality, Mr. Gelfand said, launching a discussion of prostitution. So far so good.
Suddenly, the largest man shouted an arcane architectural question. Mr. Gelfand answered, then tried to return to his bawdy subject. The man bellowed another query. Soon, adults were lining up to say the leader was talking over children's heads.
''I told them I wasn't going to be all sweetness and light,'' Mr. Gelfand muttered. At the earliest opportunity, he left the group at a pickle store.
His crotchety soul needed solace. He grabbed a cab to Wall Street, where Mr. Kaplan was midway through a tour. Mr. Gelfand good-naturedly heckled his friend for lionizing J. P. Morgan and underemphasizing slavery's contribution to New York's economic growth. At the end, a happier man announced, ''I want to thank Jim for letting me mouth off.''
Season upon season, Mr. Gelfand leads people all over Gotham on what he calls his ''Walk of the Town.'' On the Upper West Side, he points out the house where he thinks Dreiser's Sister Carrie lived. In Harlem, he talks about the singer Billy Holliday and Benny Leonard, the boxer. George Washington is the hero of Mr. Gelfand's Bowery.
It isn't getting any easier. Mr. Gelfand -who has had seven eye operations and is now pretty much blind - must count steps to know precisely where he is. But he acknowledges just one problem.
''I can't see pretty girls the way I used to,'' the professional sightseer said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%); 

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: WALKING; HISTORY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); TRAVEL AGENTS (67%); CORRUPTION (60%); BOOK REVIEWS (52%); 

PERSON: GELFAND, MARTIN; MARTIN, DOUGLAS



165 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Koch Urges Tough Stance On the Budget

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEVINE

 BODY:
In what amounted to a political valedictory, Mayor Edward I. Koch offered yesterday an ardent summation of his 12-year tenure, advised his successor to ''be not afraid'' and strongly criticized the Federal Government as being unfair to the city.
Speaking in an overflowing City Council chamber, Mr. Koch contended that, given a slowing economy, ''the city's best interests will require cutbacks in virtually every agency'' and that ''tax increases will be necessary to maintain vital services.''
He also said a proposal to raise the tax on gasoline, as part of a statewide program, and use the money the city gets to pay for repairs to city roads, bridges and highways and other structures should be considered.
At one point during his 50-minute speech, Mr. Koch looked at Mayor-elect David N. Dinkins, the man who thwarted his bid for a fourth term and whom Mr. Koch quickly endorsed, and said that over the next few years ''it will be necessary to say no over and over again.'' Later, Mr. Koch offered ''a personal word to David, our new leader.'' 
 
Dinkins Hedges on Raising Taxes
''Have the best advice,'' he told him, but do not ''hesitate to rely on your own instincts.''
''Every mayor-elect has a certain anxiety, a certain fear about whether or not they're up to the job,'' he said. ''The people decided you were, and that's all that's requried.''
Asked afterward about the spending cuts that Mr. Koch spoke of, Mr. Dinkins said, ''I don't disagree with anything he said along those lines.'' But the Mayor-elect hedged on increasing taxes, saying he did not know yet whether there would be a need to raise them. ''Should it develop that there is a need, of course the City Council will have to address that,'' he added.
It was Mr. Koch's second State of the City Message in 1989. The first came in January of a year in which Mr. Koch would set out for a historic fourth term. At that time the Mayor, while not unmindful of the city's looming fiscal problems, announced several bold initiatives, including a plan to close the warehouse-like armories where thousands of homeless people are billeted.
Yesterday, his vision of the city was more sobering. He said that New York City was recording ''a barely perceptible level'' of economic growth and that the downturn in corporate profitability may be a harbinger of reduced employment that could in turn lead to lower personal income tax receipts, which if serious could ''put us in a full-blown recession.''
 
Strongest Language
The Mayor reserved his strongest language for the Federal Government, complaining that changes in policy were costing the city about $1.1 billion a year. ''Since 1981 we've had Presidents who said 'make my day' and 'read my lips.' We made President Reagan's day by keeping our eyes on his 'shining city on the hill.' But while our eyes were on the hill, his hands were in our pockets.''
''President Bush told us to read his lips,'' Mr. Koch said a little later. ''Well, I have read those lips. I can tell you that although the President's mouth says, 'No new taxes,' his lips say, 'Plenty of new taxes, all passed by state and local governments.' ''
Affirming a theme of his administration, Mr. Koch warned that the city's means were limited and that the government's ambitions to help the poor should be constrained by the need to maintain ''fiscal integrity.''
''Our desire to be generous is deep, as it should be, but our pockets are not,'' he said. ''New York City doesn't have the resources to become a social-welfare state on its own.''
He was not entirely gloomy about the future. ''Yes, the city faces serious problems,'' he said. ''But don't listen to pessimists crying doom and decay. Never mistake the end of a cycle for the end of the city.''
 
A String of Statistics
Much of Mr. Koch's message seemed recycled from campaign speeches in which he typically recited numerous statistics to demonstrate the gains made under his stewardship. Yesterday, he mentioned his $5.1 billion, 10-year housing plan, the more than 50 percent reduction in the number of homeless families in welfare hotels, programs to help treat people afflicted with AIDS, the more than 25,000 arrests made since the Police Department's Tactical Narcotics Teams began patrols last year and the more than doubling of the city's jail beds since 1983, among other achievements.
Speaking of violent crime, Mr. Koch said it was time for the State Legislature ''to give our courts a choice between capital punishment and life imprisonment without parole.''
And referring to possible conflicts between branches of the government under the revised City Charter, Mr. Koch urged cooperation. ''The city needs a mayor with the power to get things done,'' he said. ''There can only be one chief executive.''
Mr. Koch was given a 40-second ovation as he entered the Council chamber and was applauded about five times during his speech. He also solicited applause for several past and present members of his administration, whose contributions he praised.
The Mayor, who returned Sunday from a European vacation, has scheduled his traditional year-end interviews with the City Hall press corps for Dec. 26. But aides said there were no plans now for any major speeches before Mr. Koch leaves office Dec. 31.
 
Balancing the Budget
Since losing the Democratic primary to Mr. Dinkins in September, Mr. Koch has focused on the city's finances. After disappointing tax collections in the first three months of the fiscal year that began in July, he announced a program of spending cuts and other actions to balance this year's budget.
In contrast to the city's dimming fortunes, the Mayor has lined up a series of new jobs, some apparently lucrative. He will be a lawyer, university lecturer, radio commentator and newspaper columnist and is also mulling offers to make commercial endorsements.
Although he made headlines several weeks ago at a City Club meeting, when he sounded a 10-point warning on the city's future that seemed largely directed at programs and policies endorsed by Mr. Dinkins, Mr. Koch has been supportive of his successor. And he has refrained from commenting on reports that some of Mr. Dinkins's financial transactions were being investigated by a Federal prosecutor.
In his speech yesterday, Mr. Koch acknowledged that circumspection was not always his way. ''I always tried to speak out strongly on issues, issues of every kind,'' he said. ''In speaking out, it was not my intention to offend but rather to defend - to defend the people and the future of New York City. On occasion clearly I have failed in that objective. And for that failure I ask your forgiveness.''
''I know I did my job honestly,'' Mr. Koch said a few moments later. ''History will determine if I did it well.''

GRAPHIC: In his last State of the City Message, Mayor Edward I. Koch gave a summation of his 12 years in office, criticized the Federal Government as being unfair to the city and advised his successor, David N. Dinkins, far right, to ''be not afraid.'' (The New York Times/Keith Meyers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS; TAXATION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US) MAYORS (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FUEL TAX (75%); TAX LAW (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); POLITICS (73%); GASOLINE (70%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR); DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); LEVINE, RICHARD



166 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Greenwich's Private Deal for Public Problem

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn., Dec. 5

 BODY:
When the Greenwich Board of Education went shopping for a new superintendent this year, its members knew that it would be difficult to offer a package of pay and perquisites large enough to enable an out-of-town administrator to buy a home here. After all, the average price of a four-bedroom colonial on one and a half acres is $837,000.
So, the board members, like many struggling first-time home buyers in Fairfield County, devised a creative financing plan. A group of local investors will lend $200,000 to the new superintendent to help meet the down payment on a house in Greenwich. 
The plan is believed to be one of the largest housing subsidies ever developed by a suburban school system.
It is one of the rare instances in which a community enlists private aid to compensate a superintendent.
''It was necessary - I couldn't do it on my own,'' said John A. Whritner, who was named superintendent here last month and will start March 1. He currently holds the same post in Grosse Pointe, Mich., where housing costs are less than half of those in Greenwich.
''We're not talking a mansion,'' said William D. Davies Jr., a partner at Heidrick and Struggles Inc., an executive search firm in Greenwich that helped the town develop the plan. ''We're talking a sensible responsible home.''
Housing allowances and bridge loans are not uncommon in school districts in many parts of the country. For example, Westport, Conn., has provided its superintendent with an annual $12,000 allowance. Many districts provide free housing, as New York City will for its new Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez, who will also receive a $10,000 annual expense account raised from private contributions.
Free housing can leave an official ''equity poor'' if real-estate prices rise rapidly, as they have in the Northeast and in California in the last decade.
Indeed, Mr. Whritner, 54 years old, has cited the free housing he received in Grosse Pointe during his five years there as one of the factors that left him unable to make a down payment on a Greenwich home. Free housing, sometimes of dubious condition, is perhaps most common in school districts in rural areas and in the Midwest.
''It is really a two-edged sword because you can lose capital appreciation,'' Mr. Davies said.
The arrangement between Greenwich and Mr. Whritner entails the investors, whose names the board has refused to release, lending him $200,000. In return, they will receive $200,000 equity in the house he purchases, plus a proportionate amount of the appreciation when the house is sold.
 
Salary of $105,600
Mr. Whritner, who worked as the superintendent in East Lyme, Conn., and as an administrator in White Plains before moving to Grosse Pointe, also will pay the investors 5 percent annual interest on the loan, but he will receive an $11,400-a-year stipend from the district to defray mortgage costs.
Additionally, he will receive a tax-deferred $15,000 annual annuity for retirement or, with board's approval, to buy some of the investor's equity in his home. His salary next year will be $105,600.
''There are a lot of communities where a $350,000 house is a very nice place to live, but its hard to find a home for that in Greenwich,'' said Donald S. Rotzien, chairman of the Greenwich Board of Education and a senior vice president at Union Trust Company. ''And we felt that it was important for the superintendent to live in and become part of the community.''
''It's a creative way to solve a problem and to attract the kind of person they want to attract,'' said Gary Marx, spokesman for the American Association of School Administrators in Arlington, Va. ''It's something we may be seeing more of in the future.''
School boards, perhaps more than other branches of local government, are feeling the pressure to increase compensation packages or improve housing accommodations because many superintendents are retiring, and competition is fierce among districts seeking the best of the next generation of administrators.
 
Honors for District
Many of the most highly regarded school systems are also in affluent suburban areas, where housing costs may be prohibitive. Greenwich's schools, for example, are widely regarded as among the best in the nation. The district has 6,400 pupils and a $50 million budget.
The district's library and media center has won many awards. Two Greenwich High School science teachers have won prestigious Presidential Awards. And the Federal Department of Education recently honored the high school as one of 276 of the nation's outstanding schools.
And in many small-to-medium-size communities a superintendent's post may be the only job for which a nationwide search is held, as local candidates are often hired for other high-ranking municipal positions. In the Northeast and California, such a search increases the likelihood that a superintendent will be moving from an area with lower housing costs.
''Superintendents are the equivalents of corporate leaders,'' said Ernest B. Fleishman, who left the Greenwich superintendent's position in June after 13 years and now works at Scholastic Inc., a Manhattan educational publishing concern. ''The public sector has to look at what it takes to attract people.''
Mr. Whritner's arrival comes as Greenwich schools are facing recent drops in Scholastic Aptitude Test scores, less-than-desired results in the Connecticut Mastery Test, deteriorating buildings and an increasing enrollment, particularly from minority-group members and non-English speaking students, who currently make up 14 percent of the district's student body.
 
Some Opposition to Plan
''The issues the new superintendent will be facing include a national desire to demand more of our students and that they achieve at higher levels,'' said the Acting Superintendent, Douglas W. Fainelli.
The plan to ease the new superintendent's housing costs, however, has not won unqualified endorsement in Greenwich, a staunchly conservative town of 60,000 residents 25 miles from Manhattan on the border of Westchester County. The local newspaper, Greenwich Time, has questioned whether the secrecy surrounding the identity of the donors could cloak conflicts of interest. And some local officials have questioned its economics.
''It will upset the pay scale for the town, everybody else will want the same thing,'' said E. Sidney Willis, the president of the Greenwich Chamber of Commerce. ''I realize that it's hard to get people here because of the housing but that's part of the game.''
It is difficult for many school officials to live in town. The headmaster of Greenwich High School, who earns $83,755, lives across Long Island Sound in Manhasset, L.I. An assistant superintendent, who earns $84,755, lives 25 miles - but about 40 minutes away -in Newtown. A starting teacher earns $26,919, and the average teacher salary is $43,000. About 35 percent of the district's 609 teachers and administrative employees live in town.
The problem has worsened in the past decade, as Greenwich has become a base for several Fortune 500 companies. In 1976, for example, the average cost of a Greenwich house was about $140,000, and the superintendent's annual salary was about one-third of that figure: $45,000.
''We would love to have all of our staff live in town,'' Mr. Rotzien said. ''But we know that's not possible.''

GRAPHIC: John A. Whritner, the newly appointed Superintendent of Schools in Greenwich, Conn., who will get help from the school system in buying his home.(The New York Times/Peter Yates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREENWICH (CONN)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HOUSING; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SUBURBS REAL ESTATE (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SUBURBS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (50%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (50%); 

PERSON: WHRITNER, JOHN A; RAVO, NICK



167 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: 13 Join a Panel for Jersey City Schools

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, Dec. 5

 BODY:
The State Education Commissioner announced today the appointment of 13 Jersey City residents to a 15-member advisory Board of Education that will operate in the shadow of the state's all-powerful Superintendent in managing the public schools here.
Commissioner Saul Cooperman and Superintendent Elena J. Scambio stressed that the role of the board would be only advisory and expressed hope that it would function primarily as Dr. Scambio's link to taxpayers.
''With this board, we now have an important vehicle for community involvement and educational improvement,'' Dr. Cooperman said at a news conference. At the conference, Dr. Cooperman, Dr. Scambio and some board members offered views on how powerful and influential the board might be. 
Dr. Cooperman's aides chose 13 from among 150 residents who responded to an invitation to be members while the state reorganizes the 28,000-student district, which the state has condemned as educationally bankrupt. The members were selected in part to reflect the ethnic and racial composition of the city's population of 220,000. They include five blacks, four whites, three of Hispanic heritage and one Pakistani.
 
Makeup of the Board
Seven members have children in the system, and three are on the City-Wide Parents Council, the city's strongest pre-takeover parental voice in school operations. One is a homemaker, and two are clergy members. The others come from many professions. The members include an investment banker, a librarian, a nursing instructor, an auditor, a bookkeeper, a community-affairs coordinator in the New York schools and a director of minority affairs at St. Peter's College here.
Because Gov. Thomas H. Kean and top state officials have said they believe a long tradition of nepotism, cronyism, patronage and City Hall's politicizing of the schools is the root cause of its failure, the state screened out applicants with close associations to Mayor Gerald McCann and his precedessor, Anthony R. Cucci, officials said.
''We weeded out people we felt, based on past political associations, might have their role on the board compromised,'' said Walter McCarroll, an assistant commissioner who led the takeover campaign.
City Hall has the authority to appoint two members to complete the board. The members have not been chosen. Under a 1988 law that the Education Department invoked on Oct. 4 to seize the system and oust its nine-member board, Dr. Scambio has absolute authority for five years over curriculum, personnel, budgets, administration and maintenance. The law requires her to give the board monthly reports on her decisions. The board can review them and make recommendations.
Questions about the recommendations drew differing responses from Dr. Cooperman, Dr. Scambio and some members. Dr. Cooperman said he expected pragmatic and constructive advice, adding, ''They can say, 'I think that's a lousy idea.' ''
Dr. Scambio said she viewed the board members as conduits for information.
''I will set the agenda,'' she said. ''I'll rely on them to assist us in presenting our programs to parents and parts of the community. As I present proposals, I hope they would review them and give input drawn from the community.''
Some members offered different perceptions.
''It's a two-way street,'' said the Rev. Alexander M. Santora, parochial vicar at St. Aloysius Roman Catholic Church. ''I see it as a sounding board for the Superintendent.''
 
Delineating Some Problems
Father Santora and others said they had topics they wanted to see addressed. He said the system was not educating children who had severe economic disadvantages.
''I want to see what's going to happen to those who have fallen through the cracks,'' he said. ''How will we reach out to them, and what kind of programs will we offer them?''
The librarian, Joan Lovero, said years of inefficient administration had discouraged teachers and other employees.
''We should give them a new charge of energy,'' she said. ''There's a lot of creativity and talent among teachers that should be encouraged, reinvigorated and released.''
The other board members are Susan S. Hatzopoulos, the Rev. David E. Hoffman, Mohammad Imran, Jacqueline L. McReynolds, Raymond J. O'Brien, Hilda Perez-Santiago, Robert E. Perry, Ines Rodriguez, Kabili Tayari, Holly Ann Wojciechowski and Della Womack.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; JERSEY CITY (NJ)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND COMMUNITY ROLE SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); MAYORS (67%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: COOPERMAN, SAUL (COMR); SCAMBIO, ELENA J; HANLEY, ROBERT



168 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Albany's Figures Show A $500 Million Shortfall

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 5

 BODY:
Maintaining its drum roll of bad news, the Cuomo administration predicted today that tax revenues for the current fiscal year would be even worse than it had estimated just last month.
Figures provided by the State Department of Taxation and Finance indicate that the state's shortfall could grow to $500 million by the end of the fiscal year, almost $200 million more than the estimate in November, if business tax collections do not pick up markedly in the next few months.
After the November, estimate, the administration immediately called for a 2 percent across-the-board cut in spending by state agencies. 
Today, the State Budget Director, Dall W. Forsythe, said that the budget division had not been gloomy enough in its projections, particularly in the area of corporate tax revenues.
''What we've seen in November indicates that we will have to lower our business tax estimates,'' Mr. Forsythe said. ''Our preliminary results continue to be poor.''
 
Business Tax Collections Down
Mr. Forsythe insisted that he had not yet fully analyzed the data and did not know how much the state's budget problems had grown.
Because the budget gap has been disclosed so late in the fiscal year, this year's deficit will almost certainly be carried over into next year, adding to the state's problems in the spring. The Budget Director has already estimated that the state is facing a potential shortfall of $1 billion or more for the next fiscal year, but an analysis prepared for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's economic advisory committee indicates that the shortfall could swell to as much as $2 billion under some circumstances.
In the midyear report issued last month, the state budget division had already lowered its estimates of corporate tax revenues by $108 million, to $3.7 billion. But in its report, the division predicted that corporate tax revenues would rise significantly in the second half of the fiscal year.
''If I were doing the midyear report now the numbers would be lower,'' Mr. Forsythe said. The midyear report predicted total state tax revenues of $29.6 billion.
Corporate tax receipts throughout the Northeast have been steadily declining over the last few years, and economists are at a loss to explain why. Possible explanations include the stock market crash of two years ago, unanticipated effects of Federal tax code changes and an increase in deductible interest payments resulting from a rash of mergers and acquisitions.
In New York, corporate tax collections during the first part of the fiscal year have been running about 16 percent below last year's level.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; TAXATION BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MERGERS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); KOLBERT, ELIZABETH



169 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: A.M.A. EXECUTIVE LEAVING AMID RIFT

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Dec. 5

 BODY:
The American Medical Association's top executive, whose approval of two financial deals that lost money led to a dispute in the organization, has announced that he will retire when his current contract ends.
But he denies that it was the dispute that spurred his decision.
''I accept responsibility for the errors and the changes that are needed to prevent their recurrence,'' the 63-year-old official, Dr. James H. Sammons, said Sunday in remarks to the opening session of the group's midyear meeting. 
 
Plans Known Months Ago
Dr. Sammons, the group's executive vice president, and Dr. John J. Ring, its board chairman, said in speeches at the meeting that Dr. Sammons's plans to retire when his contract expires, in 1991, were known months ago.
The 425 members of the group's House of Delegates are meeting through Wednesday to set the group's policies on a number of health care issues, but the financial dispute has captured much of their attention. With nearly 300,000 members, the group is the nation's largest organization for doctors.
The dispute centers on two financial deals, the first involving Dr. Sammons's approval of a loan in 1985 to an A.M.A. executive to buy a condominium. The second involves Dr. Sammons's approval of a $353,000 reimbursement to a former A.M.A. executive for losses from a 1987 stock market investment. Dr. Sammons's approval of the two deals became known this fall.
On Saturday, the board issued a report that said Dr. Sammons acted within his authority in approving the two deals but ''failed to follow the usual fiscal policies and procedures.'' A spokesman for the group, Mark Stuart, said the board would not elaborate.
 
Default by Loan Recipient
The former executive involved in the stock-market loss has promised to repay the money he was given, with interest. The recipient of the condominium loan defaulted on it, costing the group $50,000 to foreclose.
Dr. Ring told the delegates that an investigation of the deals is continuing and a full report will be made to the House of Delegates. He said the board will take steps so that ''this will not happen again.''
The board also said it had accepted Dr. Sammons's plan to retire on March 31, 1991. Mr. Stuart said it was unclear why the board had included its statement about accepting the retirement plans in the report on the deals.
 
Hiring of Acccounting Firm Urged
Dr. Sammons, who is widely respected for rescuing the A.M.A. from financial difficulties after taking the job in 1974, plans to end his day-to-day management of the group at the end of next year.
The report by the board also proposed hiring an outside accounting firm, and it said the board would set tighter limits on the financial authority of the executive vice president, but did not elaborate.
At the meeting, the group's delegates are to consider taking these actions:
* Acknowledging the right of a patient to basic and essential health care.
* Establishing policies about instances of maternal-fetal conflict, including situations in which a pregnant woman refuses medical treatment that would benefit her fetus.
* Encouraging health insurance companies to reduce coverage costs for non-smokers.
* Urging that the blood-alcohol level at which a driver is considered to be legally drunk be lowered to 0.05 percent from 0.10 percent.
* Working toward doctors' listing tobacco on death certificates as a contributing factor.
The group's delegates are also to consider a resolution passed last month by the Washington State Medical Association urging that Dr. Sammons be placed on administrative leave until the investigation of the financial deals is completed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN (AMA)

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS APPROVALS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); HEALTH CARE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); FORECLOSURE (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); 

PERSON: SAMMONS, JAMES H (DR)



170 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: Education;
Governors and Experts Are Divided On Setting Nation's Education Goals

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

 BODY:
There may be only one thing that educators, business leaders, governors and President Bush agree on: America's schools are in trouble.
But as a committee of governors and White House staff members meets in Washington tomorrow to define the national educational goals they discussed with the President in the ''education summit'' meeting in September, experts are divided over what the real problems and solutions are. The committee also faces skepticism that the nation has the political will and financial commitment to make changes.
Disagreement abounds over the purely educational parts of the puzzle, to say nothing of battles over ideology and finance. For example, should the country emphasize raising test scores and imposing tougher graduation requirements, or changing schools' structure and teaching methods to reach poor and minority children who are not learning now? Are the national goals being considered by the committee the right ones, or should the nation be paying more attention to the connection between poverty and school failure, as some contend? In any case, how will proclaiming national goals insure that they are met?
 
No Place for the Unskilled
In some ways, the United States faces a new task: educating all students for an economy that no longer rewards unskilled labor. Many educators contend that the vision of a good public school system that transformed the lives of immigrant children is now largely a myth, and is no guide for solving current problems. Indeed, high school dropout rates in the decades before World War II were higher than they are now; the difference is that it mattered less.. 
Most educators were publicly ecstatic when Mr. Bush convened the education meeting in September. At the least, they hoped his ''bully pulpit'' approach would help rally public support in what they see as a national crisis.
The September meeting ended with a commitment to define broad educational goals by February and then devise a strategy to see that the states' performances improve accordingly. The meeting in Washington tomorrow marks the first step of that process, where the governors and White House representatives will hear proposals from education, labor and business leaders on what those goals should be.
But many people remain skeptical that far-reaching changes can take place without more money, which is nowhere in sight, and without the political courage to take on entrenched interests that range from teachers' and administrators' unions to textbook publishers, state legislators and religious groups.
 
Ignoring the Resources
''I'm not going to wait for national leadership,'' said Robert S. Peterkin, Milwaukee's superintendent of public schools. ''I don't have the time for it. It might be valuable to have a broad set of goals, but we still seem to be ignoring what the resources are.
''When the military is having problems, we allocate money,'' he continued. ''When the savings and loans industry is having problems, we allocate money. When education is having problems, we say we could possibly allocate a few dollars.''
Others say the governors and the President did not address the central issue: poverty.
''We can do a lot more with schools to be successful, but we can never get sufficiently successful when we have growing poverty in this country,'' said Harold Howe 2d, a senior lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and a former Commissioner of Education. ''But attacking poverty is very expensive, and means doing things politically that are either impossible or very difficult to bring off.''
 
The Great Unmentionable
Money was the great unmentionable at the September meeting. But attaining many of the goals the President and the governors discussed -including improving literacy, reducing dropout rates, finding more qualified teachers and increasing nutrition and education programs for preschool children - will cost money.
Nor has Mr. Bush's pledge to be the ''education President'' meant more money for education. The Education Department's budget for elementary and secondary education in the fiscal year 1990 increased by 5 percent from 1989, while that for the previous year increased by nearly 10 percent.
Some educators are also urging the President and the governors to bridge the gap between rich and poor school districts created by reliance on local financing of education.
Gov. Bill Clinton, an Arkansas Democrat who is co-chairman of the governors' task force on education, says he is confident that defining goals will coax and embarrass states and schools into meeting them. ''Once we decide where the country needs to be, we can get there,'' he said.
 
A Greater Federal Role
But the Governor added that making changes will require a greater Federal role, counter to a long tradition of state and local control over schools.
Many of America's most formidable economic rivals, like Japan, have a nationally controlled educational system that produces universal literacy. And the Japanese Government pays nearly half the cost of education; in the United States, the Federal Government pays about 6 percent of the total.
No one is suggesting that money alone will remake the schools. James D. Robinson, chairman of American Express Company who is one of many business executives worried that the nation's schools are turning out an unskilled work force that hurts American competitiveness, said many schools were mismanaging the money they receive.''What's needed is reform of the school system in terms of accountability and spending,'' he said.
Deciding what else to do depends on how the governors, business leaders and educators define the problem. Some emphasize declining standardized test scores, high school seniors' ignorance of historical facts and the poor showing of American schoolchildren against other countries' students in mathematics and science.
 
Tougher Standards Urged
These critics include Diane Ravitch, a professor at Columbia University's Teachers College who is co-author of ''A Nation at Risk,'' a 1983 report that helped start the current drive for reform, and E. D. Hirsch Jr., author of ''Cultural Literacy: What Every American Should Know.'' They call for tougher high school graduation and college entry requirements and a national curriculum detailing what children in each grade should learn.
Other educators, like Mr. Peterkin, maintain that imposing requirements will not be as effective as exploring new teaching methods that capture students' interest and motivate them to learn. The most serious problem in American education, they argue, is the failure of schools to educate children who are poor and members of minorities.
''Just raising standards itself will create larger numbers of youngsters at risk,'' said Lester W. Young Jr. New York States's assistant commissioner of education. He and many educators who work with minority children say they do not believe in lowering expectations for such children, but in finding ways to lift their confidence.
Mr. Robinson and other executives generally want more emphasis on basic skills, computer literacy and work habits. Many companies are adopting schools, sending their employees to talk to students and serve as mentors, advising school administrators on management and personnel strategies, or creating training centers of their own.
 
Poverty and Poor Schooling
The programs are just some of many changes since education thrust itself into the spotlight in the early 1980's. Average teacher salaries have risen 19 percent in inflation-adjusted terms, foundations have bankrolled dozens of innovative programs, and many states have imposed stricter curriculum requirements and substantially increased the amount of money they spend for education.
While most of the goals proposed at the education summit meeting have the support of different ideological camps, educators raised several areas they believe the governors and Mr. Bush ignored. Most prominent among them is the link between poverty and poor schooling. Schools are reeling under the burden of caring for students whose families have disintegrated under the pressure of poverty or drugs.
''Making schools work for poor people is a brand new task,'' said Colin Greer, author of ''Choosing Equality,'' which outlines ways schools can reach poor students.
Several educators offered a range of other possible goals, including reducing teen-age pregnancy and getting teen-age mothers to return to school so they can motivate their children to succeed. Other goals involve efforts to attract more qualified teachers who are members of minorities and improving teacher training.
 
A Commitment From Parents
Achieving any of these goals will require a commitment not only from the governors and the President, but also from parents - who, Professor Ravitch said, have not demonstrated that they care enough. The real test, said P. Michael Timpane, president of Teachers College at Columbia, is yet to come.
''Is this nation going to find a way to put education at the top of its priorities?'' he asked. ''Will the important politicians stay involved? Will they set up a process by which they commit themselves to do whatever's necessary, whether money or leadership, or will they try to make quick improvmeents and diverty their attention to someone else?
''If the answer is yes, the summit will have been a very important event,'' he said. ''If no, it will have been a public relations exercise.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 7, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Education page yesterday about national educational goals misattributed the 1983 report ''A Nation at Risk.'' The report was written by the National Commission on Excellence in Education; Diane Ravitch, a professor at Columbia University's Teachers College, was not a co-author and has never been a member of the commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; GOVERNORS (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CHIRA, SUSAN GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



171 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 7, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: FOOD NOTES

BYLINE: By Florence Fabricant

 BODY:

Takeout From Arcadia Arcadia, the two-star restaurant on East 62d Street in Manhattan, has branched out into the retail food business in time for the holidays. About a month ago, Anne Rosenzweig, the chef and owner, opened Out of Arcadia, a pocket-size shop in the Citicorp Center, 151 East 53d Street; 212-308-1320. Food to go is available for a quick lunch or a more elaborate catering job.
The menu changes daily. For example, there may be eggplant and ratatouille pizza ($4 a slice), crab and lobster cakes to be eaten hot or cold ($4 each), superb cheese straws ($2 each), sticky buns ($3 each) and currant scones ($1.50 each). Sandwiches on excellent breads are $3 to $8. 
 
Dutch Treats
Peter G. Rose, a food historian who was born in the Netherlands and who is researching the influence of Dutch foods in the United States, has now made it possible to sample some historic Dutch treats. With John and Peter DeJong, the owners of the Village Bake Shop in Mount Kisco, N.Y., she has developed four cookies that are being sold in museum gift shops.
The delicious assortment includes speculaas, a traditional crisp spice cookie topped with almonds; albimaids, two oval sugar cookies that were named by a baker in Albany at the turn of the century; a sweet pretzel, actually delicate puff pastry in a pretzel shape, and a Half Moon shortbread cookie named for Henry Hudson's ship.
The cookies are $1.50 each and come with a paragraph of historic information. They are sold in the gift shops at the South Street Seaport Museum, 207 Front Street; Van Cortlandt Manor, 5 Riverside Avenue, Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., and at Philipsburg Manor on Route 9 and at Sunnyside on Sunnyside Lane, both in Tarrytown, N.Y.
 
Two Recipe Contests
To promote good nutrition, Community School Board District 13 in Brooklyn is sponsoring a recipe contest for children and adults. Entries may be submitted by adults living in the school district and children attending one of the 23 elementary and junior high schools in the district. The district covers Fort Greene and Brooklyn Heights and parts of Park Slope and Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Recipes should be nutritious and economical, using ingredients that are readily available. Prizes include dinners at local restaurants, including Gage & Tollner, and gift certificates at local food stores. The recipes, accompanied by the entrant's name, address, age, and if appropriate, school, should be sent before Jan. 1 to Erica Zurer, Community School Board District 13, 355 Park Place, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11238. Information: 718-789-0239.
The stakes are higher in Kids in the Kitchen, a recipe contest sponsored by Shoprite Supermarkets and open to children age 6 to 13 in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Delaware. The grand prize in each of six categories will be a trip to Disney World.
Recipes must be postmarked by Jan. 15. Entry blanks can be obtained at Shoprite stores or by sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope to Kids in the Kitchen, Shoprite Supermarkets, P.O. Box 7812, Edison, N.J. 08818-7812.
 
Ban on Irradiated Foods
As of Nov. 21, the sale of irradiated foods was banned in New York State, with the exception of spices and foods served to hospital patients with immune-system deficiencies.
The Federal Food and Drug Administration approved the irradiation of fruits, vegetables, pork products, grains and spices in 1986 to destroy insects and bacteria and retard spoilage. The safety of the technique has been hotly debated, with some scientists contending that it destroys vitamins and may create carcinogens.
Under the New York law, irradiated foods already on the market do not have to be withdrawn. Kevin Burns, an assistant director of the nonprofit New York Public Research Group in Manhattan, said it is almost impossible to know exactly what those foods are, since irradiation labels are required only when the entire product has been treated. When one or more ingredients have been irradiated, labeling is not necessary.
Maine is the only other state to have banned irradiated food, but similar bans are being considered by New Jersey and Massachusetts.
The New York law expires after two years, which means that the issue will be reconsidered in 1991.
 
The Most Basic of the Fold Arts
IN conjunction with ''America Eats: Folk Art and Food,'' a show that opens tomorrow and continues through Feb. 4, the Museum of American Folk Art at Columbus Avenue and 66th Street has scheduled a series of four lectures. The first, on Shaker food, will be at 6 P.M. Tuesday. The other topics: food of woodland Indians, Dec. 19; Early American pastries, Jan. 9, and Pennsylvania German cooking, Jan. 16.
Each session costs $10 for museum members, $15 for nonmembers. For reservations, checks, payable to the museum, should be sent to the Museum of American Folk Art, Curator of Education, 61 West 62d Street, New York, N.Y. 10023. Information: 212-977-7170.

GRAPHIC: drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FOOD NOTES (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); DELAWARE, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); CHILDREN (85%); SPONSORSHIP (85%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); CHEESE (78%); HISTORY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); NUTRITION (65%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (61%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE



172 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 19, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Review/Art;
Bonnard's Graphics Illuminate His Entire Output

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRENSON

 BODY:
''Pierre Bonnard: The Graphic Art'' is a major contribution to the understanding of a French modernist revered for the lushness and luminosity of his color and light and for his discreet yet voluptuous vision. Bonnard (1867-1947) arouses such loyalty not only because of the poetry of his painting but also because of its integrity. There is a very strong sense of him as an artist beyond fashion whose men and women prefer introspection to confrontation and whose paintings are not in a hurry to tell anybody anything.
This exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art is the first in 25 years to insist that all aspects of Bonnard's achievement be considered as a whole. It suggests why his paintings, which can seem so limpid, are so concentrated and substantial. By focusing on the graphic work with which Bonnard was seriously engaged only during one decade (the 1890's), the exhibition opens up everything he did. It is in the graphic work that Bonnard's ideas and influences may be most accessible. 
The roughly 125 works in the exhibition include some of Bonnard's best-known images. ''France-Champagne'' is the famous 1891 poster -with its young woman as effervescent as Champagne and the sickle-shaped letter ''C'' ready to cut the ribbon of her dress - that established Bonnard's reputation. Bonnard's poster for ''La Revue Blanche'' in 1894, with the shadowy elegance of its tall Parisienne, her body looming behind a masklike face that seems as discardable as paper, is a dazzling and disconcerting fin-de-siecle icon.
During this formative decade, Bonnard was anything but a marginal figure. His prints of the 1890's ''reflected activity at the absolute center of the Parisian avant-garde in a way his art would never do again,'' writes Colta Ives, the Met curator who organized the show, in the beautifully designed catalogue. Bonnard felt the excitement of Paris at a time of mounting energy, nationalism and self-consciousness, and he let this excitement carry his work.
There was almost no major artistic development to which he did not respond. The graphic work offers plenty of evidence of the styles and compositions of Japanese prints, of the themes and suggestiveness of Symbolism, of the flatness and nerviness of Post-Impressionism and finally of the free touch of Impressionism. Bonnard came to Impressionism after Post-Impressionism, after he had already defined his commitment to memory and imagination, which helps explain the blend of transparency and impenetrability in his painting.
He tried just about every artistic activity. Like other members of the influential group of painters known as the Nabis, he believed in what he later called ''popular production.'' He designed birth announcements, concert programs, magazine covers, theater posters and screens. In the two folding screens called ''Promenade,'' from 1894 and 1895 - reunited in this show for the first time in 40 years - he made Paris street life part Roman frieze, part Japanese print and part cabaret.
He drew illustrations for a music primer in the early 1890's. For Paul Verlaine's ''Parallelement,'' published in 1900, he made nudes, sleeping, locked together and haunting the page in ways that reflect the erotic reveries of the poems.
This celebrated livre de peinture suggests Bonnard's awareness of the emotional currents lying below the surface of the middle-class life that he both embraced and exposed. While discussing this work in her catalogue essay, the art historian Sasha Newman cites Bonnard's famous statement in 1891: ''I am of no school. I am looking only to do something personal.'' She interprets this remark to mean he was looking for a ''subject that would liberate the development of his inner core, his subconscious -what Bergson and Feneon called intuition.''
In short the show demonstrates conclusively that Bonnard should never be seen as an alternative to the avant-garde - as a bastion of artistic serenity in a century of provocation and change. His experience with the avant-garde remained part of him long after he left Paris and began moving about incessantly. He never repudiated his beginnings. Even when he lived somewhat reclusively in the south of France, he never stopped returning regularly to Paris to measure himself against what other painters were doing.
In the landscapes, interiors, nudes and self-portraits for which he is best known, Bonnard incorporated what he had learned as a young man. One of the reasons for the power of his paintings that seem to celebrate the almost clannish intimacy of middle-class life is that they are branded by the sensibility of an outsider. One reason his stillness and light are so persuasive is that they are so fiery and driven, and they invariably carry the memory - in the walls, curtains, leaves and bodies - of something fleeting, burning and unstable.
One of the great strengths of this exhibition is its insight into the way Bonnard worked and thought. Sometimes the insight is provided by juxtapositions - of prints and paintings, of early and later work, of studies and prints.
For example, ''The Square at Evening'' is among 12 lithographs from the 1899 series ''Some Aspects of Paris Life,'' published by the celebrated dealer Ambroise Vollard. It is crowded with well-dressed shadowy figures, including a woman who seems not only pressed against the picture plane but also in front of it. To the right is a woman crossing the street, head down, almost in a trance.
Alongside the lithograph is a study of her alone - just a few lines drawn with such economy that she is futuristic and almost formless - which clarifies her position as the hinge or wheel around which everything in the lithograph turns.
The lithograph and two of the studies for ''The Little Laundry Girl'' from 1895-96, suggest Bonnard's humor and bite and his ability to put his own stamp on popular motifs - in this case, a fashionable lady walking her dog. The laundry girl was a common sight. ''By midcentury,'' Ms. Ives writes, ''the laundry industry was employing over one-fifth of the population of Paris and its environs.''
In one study, the little girl in black who seems barely a child yet already an old woman, has a dog alongside her as she walks a cobblestone street. In another study, the dog is in front of her, by the curb, beside three faceless grown-ups on the sidewalk. In the lithograph, the street is empty except for the girl in sooty silhouette and the spotted, brown-and-white dog, now eyeing each other in recognition. The young girl, her hair slightly disheveled, is dragging a cart of clean white laundry that looks like a cradle, and the dog seems a few steps from jumping in.
This work is tender, acerbic and tremendously self-assured. It is worth remembering Bonnard's agility and curiosity the next time his paintings, in all their inflamed deliberation, are assembled. From this show it will be easier to locate the tightrope Bonnard walked between paradise envisioned and paradise lost.
''Pierre Bonnard: The Graphic Art'' remains at the Metropolitan Museum of Art through Feb. 4. It was financed by the Real Estate Council of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the William Randolph Hearst Foundation and the National Endowment for the Arts. The exhibition will travel to the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston (Feb. 25 to April 29 1990) and to the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston (May 25 to July 29).

GRAPHIC: ''La Revue Blanche,'' an 1894 poster that is in the exhibition ''Pierre Bonnard: The Graphic Art'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: FRANCE (78%); UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC)

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); WOMEN (76%); POETRY (71%); 

PERSON: BONNARD, PIERRE (1867-1947); BRENSON, MICHAEL



173 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 19, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Art Prices Are Still Astonishing, But Fever Seems to Be Cooling

BYLINE: By RITA REIF

 BODY:
Art is still commanding breathtaking sums in the auction houses. Pablo Picasso's ''Pierrette's Wedding'' was bought last week by a Japanese real-estate developer for $51.3 million, the second highest price ever paid for a painting. But indications are that the feverish buying of recent years is beginning to cool down and that buyers are becoming more selective.
This was in evidence at auctions of Impressionist, modern and contemporary art held in New York, London and Paris last month. Buying was more selective, the prices paid for some major works were lower than the auction houses had expected, and more than a few paintings and sculptures were not sold.
Art dealers and representatives of the auction houses attribute the shift in climate to several factors, including a general economic slowdown, exaggerated estimates by the sellers and auction houses for some works and a shift away from Impressionist works, which have become too expensive for all but the wealthiest buyers - chiefly the Japanese. 
 
Some Disappointments
Unrealized expectations included a sale on Nov. 12 by Habsburg, Feldman in New York of 95 artworks in which only 36 were sold for $14.9 million in a sale that had been valued by the auction house at $32 million to $41 million. At another sale, held by Guy Loudmer in Paris at the Drouot, the 65 artworks that were sold brought $13 million; the 22 that did not were valued at $5 million. At Christie's in New York, in an auction of 97 artworks, 29 did not sell, including 7 from the Paul Mellon collection.
Many of the disappointments were in Impressionist and modern art. Sales showed a decisive turn toward early 20th-century modern artists as Cubist and abstract works increased substantially in value.
The New York art auctions began with spirited bidding on Nov. 7 at Christie's with a sale of 101 contemporary artworks. Most postwar styles were represented - Pop Art, Abstract Expressionism, Minimalism, Color Field art and others. Although the sale totaled $62.43 million - double the highest previous amount for such a sale at this house - and had 26 records for the works of artists, it was an auction without fireworks.
 
Getting More Selective
The high point of the night was the sale of Roy Lichtenstein's ''Torpedo . . . Los,'' a 1963 comic-strip image of war, for $5.5 million, an auction record for a work by the artist.
After that sale, Thomas Ammann, a Zurich art dealer, commented on the changed mood of the art market. ''The good pieces brought very strong prices,'' he said. ''But people are starting to be a little bit more selective. They are not just snapping up everything anymore.''
''Maybe the auction houses have been a little more aggressive than they needed to be and promised collectors too much,'' said Richard Gray, a Chicago dealer, after the Christie's auction on Nov. 14, at which half the Mellon collection did not sell and the other half brought less than expected. ''As prices continue to escalate, the buying pool tends to shrink a little.''
The most important Mellon work, Edouard Manet's ''Rue Mosnier, Paris, Decorated With Flags on June 30, 1878,'' was sold to the J. Paul Getty Museum of Malibu, Calif., for $26.4 million, a record for the artist and for any Impressionist work. But the price was below the ''more than $30 million'' Christopher Burge, the president of Christie's in the United States, said it would bring when he announced its sale in September.
Nevertheless, in capturing the Manet, the Getty again demonstrated that it is alone among museums in being able to compete at the highest level. In May, the museum acquired Pontormo's ''Halberdier'' for $35.2 million.
 
Effect of the Japanese
Mr. Burge said: ''The Impressionist market is too expensive. I do not think it is helped by the fact that the Japanese, bidding against each other, pushed Impressionist prices so high.''
One Japanese buyer spent more than one-tenth of the total taken in by Christie's and Sotheby's in New York and London during these art sales in November. The buyer, Aska International, paid $115.8 million for paintings by Renoir, Monet, van Gogh and Gauguin at these two houses and spent $6.5 million at Habsburg, Feldman. Aska, which operates the Aoyama Gallery of Tokyo and became a major stockholder in Christie's in October, is owned by the Aichi Corporation, a Tokyo-based finance company headed by Yasumichi Morishita.
''There wasn't anything that ran away this time at the highest level,'' said David Nash, who heads fine art sales at Sotheby's in New York. ''The disappointments in the auctions this time have to do with expectations.''
''The last three years was up, up, up with no end in sight,'' Mr. Burge said. ''We can now more clearly chart expectations for sellers.''
In sharp contrast to the upbeat mood that prevailed at most of the sessions that took place in May and in November 1988 in New York, euphoria was absent from these art sales.
''I think the sales went fantastically well when you consider that we are in the middle of a downturn,'' Stephen Hahn, a Madison Avenue art dealer, said.
 
The Successes
Successes could be seen in the record prices for the works of scores of artists and for several categories of art sales. Sotheby's in New York took in $269.5 million - a record for any art sale - on Nov. 15, the night Walter Annenberg bought Picasso's ''Au Lapin Agile'' for $40.7 million.
In less than a month, 18 artworks were sold for more than $10 million each - 9 at Sotheby's in New York, 8 at Christie's in New York and London and 1 at the Drouot sale by Binoche & Godeau in Paris. Of these, 6 were sold for more than $20 million each - 3 at Sotheby's in New York, 2 at Christie's in New York and the 1 at the Drouot -more than double any past performance at these sales.
 
Buyers Spent $1 Billion
The market may have cooled somewhat, but it is far from frozen. Even though these were sales in which applause was rarely heard and van Gogh's ''Irises'' was not eclipsed as the world's most expensive painting at $53.9 million, buyers spent about $1 billion for artworks produced mostly over the last century - a figure well above the previous record of $700 million set in May, the last period of major art sales.
Works by Picasso continued to figure prominently in auctions this season. The November sales in New York, London and Paris offered seven Picasso paintings valued at more than $10 million each. Of these, six were sold for a total of $163.7 million. Only one, ''Death of a Harlequin'' from the Mellon collection at Christie's, which was expected to bring about $20 million, failed to sell, possibly because of its somber theme.
''There was no Japanese support for 'Death of a Harlequin,' '' Mr. Burge said. ''One potential buyer said he thought his young son would be frightened by the subject.''
Leo Castelli, the New York art dealer, emerged more thoughtful than elated from one Sotheby's sale at which Willem de Kooning's ''Interchange'' brought $20.7 million - the highest price paid at auction for the work of a living artist and for a contemporary artwork. The sale itself was a record for any auction of contemporary art - $98.3 million.
''What is really miraculous,'' Mr. Castelli said, ''is that the prices are holding up and that there is so much money around to buy so many expensive paintings.''

GRAPHIC: List of the 10 mosst expensive artworks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: ART; SALES; AUCTIONS; PRICES AUCTIONS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); CLIMATE CHANGE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (54%); 

PERSON: REIF, RITA PAUL MELLON (62%); 



174 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Canada in Accord On Speeding Up Tariff Cuts

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5

 BODY:
The United States and Canada, which last Jan. 1 put into effect a free-trade agreement aimed at wiping out practically all trade barriers between the two countries within a decade, have decided to speed up tariff cuts covering $6 billion in trade.
The decision affects chemicals, pharmaceuticals, printed circuit boards, scientific instruments, electric motors and other items, and could mean lower prices in both countries for those and related products. The new schedule was seen as a healthy sign for the overall agreement, which had a shaky start chiefly because of opposition in Canada.
''Entrepreneurs on both sides of the border like free trade so much they want more of it,'' said the United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills. Since March, she has been working out the speed-up with her Canadian counterpart, Trade Minister John C. Crosbie. 
Despite the sluggishness this year in the Canadian and American economies, Mrs. Hills said in an interview today, trade between the two countries continues to expand ''and some of the credit has to be given to the free-trade agreement.'' She added, ''Entrepreneurs are striking at areas of opportunity.''
The acceleration, which eliminates tariffs that were not scheduled to come off under the original accord for five or, in some cases, 10 years, is a response to requests from American and Canadian industry, including many multinational companies seeking to trim costs on imported components.
Being eliminated, for example, are the 8 percent Canadian and 5.3 percent American duties on printed circuit boards, which will cut costs for a wide range of electronics products, including computers. The two countries already exchange more than $200 million worth of printed circuit boards.
Also coming off are Canada's 8 percent to 12 percent duty on electric motors and the American tariff of 3 percent to 5 percent. This could mean lower prices for products that use electric motors, like refrigerators. There is at least $50 million a year of two-way business in such motors, which is likely to expand.
Derek Burney, Canada's Ambassador to the United States, said in an interview today that tempers had cooled in Canada and the free-trade agreement was now seen ''more as an economic instrument and less in psychological terms.'' He said, ''The apocalyptic forecasts of the opponents have just not materialized.''
Much of the Canadian opposition was based on fears that American industry would overwhelm Canada, causing unemployment and a loss of national identity.
 
Easy Approval Seen
The acceleration would take effect April 1, and needs the approval of the Canadian Parliament and the United States Congress. Because the tariff cuts are only in cases where there has been no industry opposition, the agreement is expected to pass easily in both countries.
In the United States, the process includes a 60-day review by the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee. Barring opposition, the necessary amendments to the United States tariff schedule would be made by Presidential proclamation.
In Canada, customs tariff amendments would be required after publication of a notice in the Canada Gazette. The Gazette is the equivalent of the Federal Register in the United States, where the new tariff cuts would also be published.
The acceleration process was started by the two Governments at the request of Canadian and American industries. A further speed-up is expected in 1991.
Under the free-trade deal, some tariffs were wiped out last Jan. 1, but the bulk would be eliminated in stages over five and, for the most sensitive products, 10 years.
The cuts affect more than 500 products, about 10 percent of the initial requests by the industries of both countries. The trade benefits are divided equally, with the package covering $3 billion of Canadian exports to the United States and approximately the same value of American exports to Canada. $200 Billion in Trade The original free-trade agreement took two years to negotiate and was ratified by Canada only after a general election victory last year by Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, a Conservative who supported the pact. It is, in effect, a framework for managing the world's largest and most complex two-way trade, approaching $200 billion of goods and services this year.
In addition to writing tariff-cutting schedules, the pact sets rules for trade in manufactured goods, agricultural products, energy and services; calls for investment liberalization, and sets up procedures for dispute settlement.
The two countries continue to have a number of arguments over trade issues, chiefly related to agricultural products. But as Mr. Burney commented, ''The agreement sets up the machinery to contain these disputes.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H



175 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Take Taiwan on Giddy Ride

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan

 BODY:
To investors in the Taiwan stock market, ''research'' often means talking to a fortune teller, and ''long-term investments'' tend to be measured in weeks instead of years. But what the Taiwan Stock Exchange lacks in pinstripes and gravity, it makes up for in size and performance.
The stock market on this island of 20 million people is the busiest in the world, based on the number of shares changing hands. More than 20 billion shares are traded on a typical day -about 20 times the average in Tokyo and more than 100 times the average in New York.
When measured by the total value of transactions, Taiwan consistently ranks third in the world, behind Tokyo and New York, although on a really good day the value of transactions here may exceed that of the New York Stock Exchange. 
''They're gambling their hearts away,'' Blair C. Pickerell, president of the Taiwan International Securities Corporation, said as he pointed to the hundreds of clients gazing intently at careering prices on electronic tickers above his company's trading floor.
To be sure, with its sharp daily swings, the Taiwan market often seems a gambler's playground. For example, the market plunged 5.7 percent on Nov. 28, leading to street protests in which investors demanded that the Government prop up the market. The authorities responded by announcing that a proposed stock-trading tax would be lower than planned, sending the index jumping 6.5 percent the next day.
Still, the Taiwan market has proved to be mainly a one-way bet in recent years. The market index first broke through the 1,000 barrier in 1986, and this year it jumped past the 10,000 level. It has since come down from that peak, and closed at 8,701.15 on Tuesday, up 35.3 points.
The rise of the Taiwan market reflects more than the speculative froth on a fast-growing East Asian economy. The growth of the market is due in part to the financial restructuring of Taiwan companies, as they mature beyond entrepreneurial family businesses and need equity capital to pay for further growth.
 
More Overseas Investment
Moreover, the financial wealth of Taiwan is likely to become more apparent to outsiders as it increases its investment abroad. In the first 10 months of this year, Taiwan's overseas investment increased by two and a half times, to $609 million. Though far smaller than that of Japan, the financial might of Taiwan owes much to its being a highly competitive manufacturer; its persistent trade surplus creates wealth at home and then is partly invested overseas.
Indeed, the stock market boom gives Taiwan's companies tremendous potential buying power: one financier recently noted casually to a foreign businessman that he could finance the purchase of Chase Manhattan Bank.
The biggest banks in Taiwan have market capitalizations greater than those of Chase Manhattan and Citicorp combined. This is mainly because Taipei's price-earnings ratios have soared to breathtaking levels; the stock of Hsin Chu Medium Business Bank, for instance, is trading at nearly 900 times earnings.
The average price-earnings ratio for the market is variously calculated as anywhere from 65 to 130, depending on whether the average is weighted by the market capitalization of the listed companies. In contrast, the average price-earnings multiple of stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 is now about 15.
 
Foreigners Are Barred
Foreigners are not allowed to purchase shares directly in Taiwan, but they can buy into four funds that represent packages of Taiwan equities. Two of the funds, the RoC Taiwan Fund and the Taiwan Fund, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The others can be purchased through specialized brokerages.
The Government has pledged that it will eventually open its markets to foreigners, but it has not given a timetable. Some foreign analysts are skeptical, suggesting that the stock market will be opened only after a crash, when investment is needed.
The Taiwan Stock Exchange is often described as a ''cowboy market,'' and playing it has become a national pastime. There are several million private investors, and they dominate the market. Institutions account for only about 20 percent of trading.
Investors trade very frequently, constantly ducking into and out of stocks. The equivalent of the total market value of the Chia Hsin Livestock Company, for example, turned over 2.5 times in October, meaning that the average share was retained less than two weeks. Although that was unusually high volume, the average turnover is also much higher here than in other markets.
 
Furtive Visits to Brokerages
Bank tellers and office clerks are often seen with earphones, listening to a radio station that broadcasts nothing but stock prices. They periodically assert an urgent need to visit the washroom, only to rush outside to the nearest brokerage. After making a trade, they return to work.
''Even a lot of blue-collar workers have decided to quit their jobs and spend the time playing the market,'' said J. C. Chu, vice president of the Taiwan exchange. ''The ministry of economic affairs has expressed concern about the impact if blue-collar employees decide to stop working.''
Cars are invariably double-parked outside brokerages; investors rush in to check prices and make trades. Brokerages are jammed with hundreds of people who play the market full time. A slight majority are housewives, but students, businessmen and taxi drivers also rub shoulders.
''The stock market has been growing very irrationally,'' said Fredrick F. Chien, chairman of the Council of Economic Planning and Development. ''It was growing by leaps and bounds, and it created a lot of fantasies.''
 
Important to Taiwan
But Mr. Chien and others stressed that the market is important to Taiwan's development. Chang Liang, president of the Shearson Lehman Hutton subsidiary in Taipei, suggests that the stock market is coming to play an important role in the country's industrial revamping, in which companies take on equity for debt to strengthen their balance sheets.
Outside mainland China, companies founded by Chinese entrepreneurs - particularly those in Taiwan - are often said to be spectacularly successful at the initial stage, when they are run as family enterprises. But as they grow and the founders hand them to their children, the companies have frequently encountered severe difficulties.
Mr. Chang suggested that the stock market was helping to overcome these problems, by rewarding firms that adopt international standards of accounting and management.
''The well-being of Taiwan's economy depends on this capital market,'' Mr. Chang said. Not everyone is so enthusiastic, particularly about the market as it now exists. Diane Ying, a prominent local magazine publisher, said that while Taiwan needed an efficient capital market, it must be supervised and regulated more closely.
''This is a gambling joint, and a rigged gambling joint,'' she complained.
Insider trading is technically against the law here, but almost everyone acknowledges that it is widespread and that a large share of trades are made on tips of one kind or another. ''Everybody's got a tip,'' Mr. Pickerell said. ''The only question is whether it's right.''
 
Margin Violations
A greater concern to some analysts are violations of restrictions on margin trading. No one knows how widespread the practice is, but some analysts say that up to 30 percent of investments are made with borrowed money. One scenario that creates nightmares is that the market would fall far enough to force these investors to sell their stakes and repay their loans. A few defaults could drive the market much lower and cause a serious crash, some say.
Almost no one rules out the possibility of a crash - indeed, there have been two plunges of about 40 percent in the last few years, and other smaller plunges - but local investors seem optimistic. They say that Taiwan is awash with money, and that there are few other places to invest if people pull out of stocks.
And, they note indulgently, some people grew nervous in 1986 when the index reached 1,000. They pulled out of the market and missed the subsequent tenfold leap of prices.

GRAPHIC: photo of brokers celebrating rise in market (NYT) (pg. D1); graph of daily close of Taiwan Stock Exchange (Source: Interactive Data) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6012 (TAIEX) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: TAIWAN INTERNATIONAL SECURITIES CORP (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STOCK EXCHANGE, TAIWAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIWAN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); RANKINGS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D



176 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Car Sales Off, With Big 3 Hurt the Most

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 5

 BODY:
Sales of domestically produced cars and trucks fell in late November and were down sharply at the Big Three. Japan's auto makers, however, continued to show relative strength.
Sales of vehicles produced at Japanese plants in the United States surged, while sales of imported models fell at a relatively modest rate.
Indeed, the Honda Motor Company's rising share of the American market, now 9.6 percent, moves it close to the Chrysler Corporation, whose share has slipped to 10.3 percent. 
Among European makes, sales of Porsche, Mercedes, BMW and Saab were off compared with November 1988. Audi, VW and Volvo were flat.
Over all, the sales reports heightened fears that an automotive recession is under way.
From Nov. 21 to Nov. 30, which included eight selling days, the General Motors Corporation said domestic car sales dropped 24 percent from the period a year ago. The Ford Motor Company posted an 8.7 percent drop in car sales, and Chrysler had a 15.7 percent decline.
For the month, G.M.'s car sales were down 22.6 percent, Ford's 15 percent and Chrysler's 17 percent.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate for car sales for November was six million, roughly the same rate as in October. Large cash rebates in August and September had attracted some car and truck customers to buy sooner, leading analysts to expect the October drop. The continued sales weakness in November led analysts to conclude that consumer demand remains soft.
 
Still at 'Dismal Level'
''We didn't get any improvement,'' said Harvey Heinbach, an automotive analyst for Merrill Lynch in New York. ''The numbers are holding at the dismal level of October.''
The ripple effects of the automotive recession have been showing up in Big Three production plans. More cuts in factory schedules have been confirmed by G.M., Ford and Chrysler, which will mean more layoffs and plant shutdowns at least through March, industry analysts said.
G.M., for example, confirmed that it will reopen its midsize car plants in Fairfax, Kan., and Doraville, Ga., on Jan. 16 instead of Jan. 2, to reduce inventories of the Pontiac Grand Prix and Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme.
Late yesterday Ford announced that it was idling its Lorain, Ohio, van plant and the work force there of 2,900 for the week of Dec. 11.
 
Chrysler Write-Offs Confirmed
A Chrysler spokesman confirmed that it would declare write-offs against fourth-quarter earnings to cover the cost of closing its Jefferson Avenue assembly plant in Detroit and to cover the cost of dismissing a number of white-collar workers.
Chrysler did not quantify the write-offs, but analysts estimated that they would total at least $300 million, assuring that the car maker will be unprofitable for the quarter.
Chrysler's stock fell 62.5 cents yesterday, to $19, on the New York Stock Exchange. That was its lowest level of the year. In January, Chrysler was trading at $29.625.
Ford's stock slipped 37.5 cents, to $45.25, while G.M. rose 25 cents, to $44.625.
Domestic light-truck sales were stronger than car sales in late November, dropping only 3.8 percent from a year ago. Through aggressive rebates, Chrysler increased its sales of trucks, vans and Jeeps by 1.6 percent. For the month, light-truck sales were down 7 percent from a year ago, to 306,891.
 
Honda Tailgating Chrysler
For November, sales of domestically produced Hondas were about flat, at 33,771. Honda's share of the car market was 9.6 percent, compared with 8.1 percent a year ago. That brings Honda close to Chrysler's 10.3 percent share.
Sales of domestically produced Toyotas more than doubled, to 21,058, giving it an 8.5 percent share, up from 8 percent a year ago. Sales of Nissan cars made in the United States were up 31.3 percent, to 8,757, for a 5.9 percent market share, up from 5.1 percent.
Sales of domestically produced Mitsubishi cars reached 3,305 for the first year of production, and sales of Mazdas built in the United States were up 21.7 percent, at 3,116.
 
G.M. Share Slips Badly
The Japanese strength came at the expense of the Big Three. G.M., which had managed to halt the decade-long decline in its market share by aggressive use of rebates, slipped badly for the month, its share of the domestic car market dropping to slightly less than 32 percent, compared with 35.5 percent a year ago. G.M.'s share of the light-truck market also fell, to 35.8 percent, from 37.2 percent a year ago.
Even Ford's share, which had gained steadily in the 1980's, felt the surge of the Japanese transplants.
Ford's share of the car market dipped less than half a percentage point, to 20.2 percent, and the company's share of the light-truck market was 29.7 percent, compared with 30.4 percent a year ago.
Chrysler's share of the light-truck market was a bright spot, rising to about 21 percent for the month, from 19.4 percent a year ago. But Chrysler's car share dropped to 10.3 percent, from 11 percent last year.

GRAPHIC: graph of U.S. vehicle sales for '88 and '89 (pg D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (84%); 7267 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET AUTOMOTIVE SALES (94%); SALES FIGURES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); SALES REBATES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P



177 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
In Takeovers, Play's the Thing

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
ARE hostile takeovers bad for children and other living things? Or are they simply nature's way of telling incompetent managers to step down?
One way to get a fix on this elusive issue is to plow through the manifestoes of assorted economists, financiers and Congressmen currying favor with their favorite campaign contributors. A less tiresome, altogether superior way is to spend an evening at ''Other People's Money,'' Jerry Sterner's melodrama with a comic edge now playing at the Minetta Lane Theater.
The scene is the ramshackle office of Andrew (Jorgy) Jorgenson, the 68-year-old chairman of New England Wire and Cable and the largest employer in an unnamed Rhode Island mill town. All is not well with the company: Stiff competition from hard-working, underpaid Koreans has made its core business unprofitable. 
But Jorgenson, a man of traditional values, is not about to abandon the enterprise he knows best or the hundreds of workers who depend upon it for a living. And thanks to William Coles, the chief operating officer brought in a decade earlier, there is no pressure for triage: Healthy earnings from plumbing supplies, adhesives and similarly unglamorous items that Coles has added to the product line have offset losses in the wire and cable business, allowing the company to remain debt-free -and out of the clutches of creditors.
Enter Lawrence Garfinkle, the obese, foul-mouthed New York takeover artist whose passions are (in no particular order) sex, money and goo from Dunkin' Donuts. ''Larry the Liquidator,'' as Garfinkle is known on the Street, is always on the lookout for companies worth more dead than alive. And with the help of Carmen, his trusty computer, Garfinkle has discovered New England Wire. By scrapping the wire and cable business and selling the other divisions for six times cash flow, he discovers, the stockholders could realize at least $25 a share. That is a lot less than the $60 they were once worth - but a lot more than the $10 at which the shares have been languishing. ''Restructuring,'' explains Garfinkle, ''means never having to say you're sorry.''
Jorgenson is slow to see the risk posed by Garfinkle, who has been quietly buying stock with money raised by Drexel. (''Give them 15 percent plus a fee,'' says Garfinkle, ''and they'll get you the bucks to buy a slag heap in Mound City, Mo.'') He is, however, finally persuaded by the more worldly Coles to hire Kate Sullivan, a hard-as-nails anti-takeover specialist from Morgan Stanley, who happens (natch) to be young, brilliant and beautiful.
Jorgenson is appalled by the sleazy defenses offered by Sullivan. He refuses to bribe Garfinkle to go away with greenmail. He will not hear of reincorporating in Delaware, where the laws are stacked in favor of entrenched management. (''Delaware? I've never even been to Delaware.'') He will not cooperate in the search for a friendly corporate partner, or ''white knight.'' And he rejects the idea of creating a ''poison pill,'' a bylaw automatically setting off the dilution of stockholders' equity the moment Garfinkle accumulates 30 percent of the stock.
To this point Jorgenson, with his concern for his workers and their community, has a monopoly on the high moral ground. ''We might not have flourished,'' he tells stockholders convened to decide the company's fate, ''but we survived.''
''This man,'' he adds, referring to Garfinkle, ''creates nothing . . . builds nothing. . . . In his wake lies nothing but a blizzard of paper to cover the pain. . . . God save us if you vote to take his few paltry dollars and run. God save us if . . . we become a nation that makes nothing but hamburgers, creates nothing but lawyers, and sells nothing but tax shelters.''
But playwright Sterner is not about to make it easy for his jury of theatergoers. ''For the last 10 years,'' Garfinkle tells the shareholders, ''this company has bled your money. Did the community care? . . . We're paying twice [in taxes] what we paid 10 years ago. . . . And our devoted employees, after taking no increases for three years, are still making twice what they made 10 years ago. And our stock is one-sixth what it was 10 years ago. . . . Who cares? I'll tell you: me. . . . ''I don't make anything? I'm making you money. . . . Take that money and invest it somewhere else. Maybe you'll get lucky, and it will be used productively. And if it is, you'll create more jobs and provide a service for the economy and - God forbid -even make a few bucks for yourself. Let the Government and the mayor and the unions worry about what you paid them to worry about. And if anyone asks, tell them you gave at the plant.''
Who wins the debate - and the company? Good playwrights do not telegraph endings, and neither should newspaper columnists. Suffice it to say that Garfinkle gets his just . . . well, desserts.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); OTHER PEOPLE'S MONEY (PLAY)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (66%); MS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (66%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; THEATER TAKEOVERS (91%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; STERNER, JERRY



178 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Economic Worries Push Dow Down 11.95

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
Stock prices were broadly lower yesterday amid continued uncertainty over the economic outlook. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 11.95 points, to 2,741.68.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 154.6 million shares, compared with 150.4 million on Monday. Declining issues outstripped advancing ones, 831 to 656. 
''The market has had a resistance level for the past three sessions between 2,750 and 2,760,'' said Kenneth Spence, the head of technical analysis for Salomon Brothers Inc. in New York. ''It's showing signs of being overbought.''
 
I.B.M. Seesaws
Early in the day, the Dow was up more than 18 points from Monday's close, bolstered by International Business Machines, which was up 2 5/8 after announcing an overhaul, including the reduction of more than 10,000 jobs through attrition.
But ardor for I.B.M. ebbed later in the day, and it ended up 3/8, at 99 5/8. The company, based in Armonk, N.Y., also plans to take a $2.3 billion pretax charge in the fourth quarter, a share repurchase program of up to $4 billion, in addition to the $1 billion buyback it announced in October.
Other technology issues were mixed. Xerox advanced 1 1/4, to 60; Cray Research jumped 1 1/2, to 38 1/8; Digital moved down 1/4, to 87 3/4, and Apple Computer fell 1/4, to 45.
Quaker Oats fell 3 3/4, to 58 3/4, after the company, based in Chicago, said it expected lower earnings for its second fiscal quarter ending on Dec. 31, analysts said.
 
USX Off on Icahn Talk
USX fell 7/8, to 36 7/8, as speculation continued that the investor Carl C. Icahn was preparing to make a $50-a-share bid for the Pittsburgh-based steel and energy company. Rumors circulated yesterday that Mr. Icahn was trying to line up a buyer for the company's Marathon Oil unit before making a bid.
Automobile stocks generally fell after the eight domestic manufacturers reported a decline in car and truck sales for November. Ford Motor dropped 3/8, to 45 1/4; Chrysler lost 5/8, to 19, while General Motors bounced back to close up 1/4, to 44 5/8.
Oil stocks also fared poorly, with Exxon losing 1/4, to 47 7/8; Phillips Petroleum falling 3/8, to 23 7/8; Texaco dropping 1, to 54 3/8, and Chevron losing 1/8, to 70 3/4.
Bank stocks also lost ground. First Interstate Bankcorp, the most active issue on the New York Stock Exchange, fell 1/2, to 53 1/4, on a volume of more than 2.8 million shares. Citicorp lost 1/2, to end at 29 5/8, while Chase Manhattan lost 7/8, to 36 1/2, and Wells Fargo was down 2 1/4, to 74.
L. William Seidman, the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, said in a speech yesterday that he was troubled by bank lending for real estate deals and said that could hurt the Federal agency that insures the banks.
 
Deere Drops on Report
Deere slipped 2 3/4, to 56 7/8, after the company, based in Moline, Ill., said higher earnings for the fourth quarter were offset partly by rising expenses and start-up costs. The company's 22.2 percent drop was the largest on the Big Board. Caterpillar also fell, by 7/8, to end at 59 5/8.
Circle K dropped 1, to 3 1/2, after the company's creditor banks said they had agreed to extend a deadline for the convenience-store company, based in Phoenix, to reach a new short-term credit agreement.
The Germany Fund, which floated about $45 million worth of additional shares yesterday, closed down 3/4, to 12 3/4.
The Dow transportation average registered a slight gain, advancing 3.20 points, to 1,220.84, as UAL, the parent of United Airlines, continued to advance on speculation regarding Coniston Partners, an investment group. The group holds a large stake in the airline and has met with management and unions to discuss a possible buyout or similar transaction.
 
Utility Average Off
The Dow utility average, which reached a historic high on Monday, slipped to 228.06, down 0.18.
Among broader market indexes, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fell 1.83, to 349.58, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index lost 0.88 to end at 193.19. On the American Stock Exchange, the market-value index gained a scant 0.22 point, to 374.88.
The Nasdaq composite index gained 0.27, to 458.55. Among the most active over-the-counter issues, MCI Communications lost 1/4, to 44 1/2. McCaw Cellular Communications, which is negotiating to acquire Lin Broadcasting, closed up 2, to 41 1/4. Lin closed up 1 3/8, to 123.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); IBMC (BRU) (57%); IBM (NYSE) (57%); IBM (LSE) (57%); MRO (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); FORD MOTOR CO (57%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (57%); MARATHON OIL CORP (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D CARL ICAHN (77%); 



179 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Germany's Trade Potential Helps Mark to Dominate

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
The mark continued to dominate foreign exchange trading yesterday, with traders focusing on West Germany's potential for trade with its eastern neighbors, dealers said.
The mark's value has already taken into account an expected increase in West German interest rates and a further decline in United States rates, dealers said.
The Swiss franc also advanced on expectations of a rise in Swiss bank discount rates from the present level of 6 percent to battle rising inflation in that country. 
''Whatever moves the dollar made today in effect were by default, because the cross rates dominated trading, especially the mark-Swiss franc rates,'' said Scott R. Greene, vice president at the New York office of Bank Julius Baer of Zurich. ''Specifically, we saw heavy selling of marks against the Swiss franc.''
 
Rumors of Swiss Rate Rise
Despite rumors that the Swiss discount rate is about to be raised from its present level of 6 percent, which would push up all rates on Swiss franc-denominated investments, Mr. Greene continued, there are many who still believe the recent weakness of the Swiss franc provided a buying opportunity, just as others hold that the recent strength of the mark has been overdone.
In other cross-rate trading, both the mark and Swiss franc rose against the Japanese yen. Partly as a result, the dollar rose against the yen to 143.79, from 143.65 Monday, while it fell against the mark to 1.7772, from 1.78425. Against the French franc, the dollar fell to 6.0690, from 6.0915, and it took 1,309.50 Italian lire to buy a dollar, down from 1,314.50 Monday.
David S. Gilmore, a foreign exchange analyst at McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei, said: ''The currency market believes the Bank of Japan wants to see the yen below 140, largely because of trade considerations. At the same time, Japanese demand for Canadian dollars continues unabated. A major reason is that Canadian interest rates are more than competitive with our yields.''
For example, he said, the rate on 90-day Canadian Treasury bills is 4.4 percentage points higher than the United States Treasury bill rate. ''That may be a historically wide spread,'' he added.
The United States dollar fell to 1.1633 Canadian dollars, from 1.16365 Monday. The British pound rose to $1.57, from $1.56225, after being weak earlier in the day because Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher did not receive as much support in a Conservative Party vote as had been expected. ''But she got enough votes to make currency traders change their minds, and sterling erased the early losses,'' Mr. Gilmore said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (57%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

CITY: ZURICH (57%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (85%); BRITISH POUND (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INFLATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J



180 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Copper Prices Fall Sharply; Precious Metals in Rebound

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The prices of copper futures fell sharply yesterday on New York's Commodity Exchange as traders reacted to a downturn in demand for the metal.
In other markets, precious metal futures rebounded from Monday's selloff, grain and soybeans futures were higher, while livestock futures gained, hog futures closed mixed and energy futures climbed.
Copper settled 1.35 cents to 2.40 cents lower, with the contract for delivery in December at $1.0620 a pound. 
Copper prices plunged at the opening bell and continued under pressure throughout the day as traders failed to hold support levels.
Don Tierney, an analyst at Stanley Bell & Company in New York, said consumption of copper was declining because of the softening economic climate.
Precious metal futures rebounded on the Comex as traders operated on the belief that Monday's sharp decline was overdone, Mr. Tierney said.
Helping gold and silver prices was the weakening of the United States dollar against the Swiss franc and the West German mark.
Gold was $2 to $2.40 higher, with December at $403.50 a troy ounce. Silver was 2.4 cents to 3.5 cents higher, with December at $5.533 a troy ounce.
Grain and soybean futures closed mostly higher in modest trading on the Chicago Board of Trade as the market recovered some losses sustained in the previous session.
 
Corn Leads Trend Upward
Corn futures led the trend upward in the aftermath of Monday's United States Department of Agriculture weekly export inspections report, which was higher than expected, said Dale Gustafson, an analyst at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. in Chicago.
The inspections tally of 79 million bushels was well above trade estimates for 67 million to 73 million. The inspections are an indication of the amount of grain ready for export.
Nearby wheat prices were lower, but the new crop futures gained on reports that weather conditions in the winter wheat crop areas continue on the dry side.
Soybean futures trading continues sluggish, as a lack of export sales dampens the market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; METALS AND MINERALS FUTURES (96%); COPPER MARKETS (92%); COPPER INDUSTRY (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); TRENDS (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); WHEAT FARMING (69%); CROP PRODUCTION (69%); 



181 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 26, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
On 3d Ave., Location Isn't Enough

BYLINE: By Richard D. Lyons

 BODY:
THE old cliche that the essence of real estate is location is coming under increasing challenge in Manhattan's midtown leasing market.
Appearance has become the important new buzzword along Third Avenue, with location often cited by leasing specialists as the second major consideration by prospective tenants and mechanical systems as the third. And with appearance in mind, an increasing number of structures that went up in the real estate boom along Third Avenue in midtown in the 1950's and 1960's are being spruced up with new lobbies, facades, windows and other esthetic features.
The 30-year-old office building at 750 Third Avenue, at 46th Street, for example, is undergoing a $7 million face lift in which a 48-foot-high glass atrium decorated with cascading plants and supported by granite columns has been carved out of parts of the second, third and fourth floors. The project, which started 18 months ago, is under the direction of the Manhattan architectural firm of Haines, Lundberg & Waehler. 
In addition to new sidewalks and the planting of new honey maple trees in front of the 34-story building, due for next spring, the owners have installed new security monitors, modernized the air-conditioning system and elevators and caulked and scrubbed the exterior.
The building has 15 tenants occupying its 672,000 square feet of office space, with McCann-Erickson Worldwide, the advertising agency, as the main tenant.
The building is one of five midtown properties owned by the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, which with its companion organization, the College Retirement Equities Fund, has $3.7 billion of its $80 billion in assets invested in 281 separate properties around the country. The two groups have about a million members in the nation's educational institutions.
''The renovation of 750 Third Avenue reflects T.I.A.A.'s commitment to provide quality space to our office tenants,'' said Stan Sledz, senior vice president of the organization, which has its national headquarters in the neighboring building at 730 Third Avenue, one block south.
Yet some leasing experts say the big reason for such renovations is competition for tenants in a sour market, a situation compounded not only by a tender local economy but also by a slew of new midtown office buildings offering more amenities than many older structures.
Indeed, said one expert, Benjamin Fox, many buildings that went up in the East Side boom 30 years ago ''were paste-up jobs made from flimsy materials, and architecturally dreary as well.''
''At that time it was considered utilitarian architecture, which might have been all right then,'' Mr. Fox said, ''but today it is the sort of style that many corporate clients find not particularly pleasing esthetically, and thus unsuitable.'' Mr. Fox is executive vice president of New Spectrum Realty Services Inc., a leasing agency for midtown office space.
''Increasingly, tenants choose buildings for appearance because they want their clients thinking positively when they walk in - esthetics helps business - and only then do they consider location and the state of the mechanical systems such as the air-conditioning and the windows,'' he added.
His comments were echoed by Faith Consolo, senior vice president of Garrick Aug Associates, another East Side agency, who asserted pointedly: ''Let's face it: In order to stay competitive in a bad market the owners have to spruce up their properties. The owners of a lot of older buildings with leases running out are suddenly finding themselves competing with schmaltzy new buildings such as Trump Plaza so they have to call in the architects and renovate.''
One Manhattan architect who specializes in the renovation of commercial properties is Der Scutt, who said he has undertaken seven such projects in the last two years.
''Right now we are renovating the ugliest building in America, 575 Lexington Avenue,'' Mr. Scutt said, reprising remarks often made about the 36-story structure that went up in 1958 at the corner of 51st Street.
The building has been regarded by many as an East Side eyesore, mainly because the original gold-colored aluminum cladding unexpectedly weathered to a bilious shade of yellow that blotched in places. The owners, Koeppel & Koeppel, a New York real estate investment firm, are spending $18 million to dress the structure with a new bronze cladding, while upgrading the elevators and storefronts and rebuilding the lobby.
''We also found that many of the original windows leaked badly because their gaskets were loose, which made them energy-inefficient and let in street noise as well as rain,'' Mr. Scutt said. ''So they too are being replaced.''
He added, however, that some of his renovations had been for the purpose of restoring facades because current owners now realize that the original, esthetically pleasing appearance of their buildings, changed for the worse over the years, is becoming more attractive to potential tenants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (82%); MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); 

PERSON: LYONS, RICHARD D DAVID DAVIS (67%); 



182 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2907 words

HEADLINE: VISIONS OF EUROPE: THE VIEW FROM WASHINGTON - A SPECIAL REPORT:
UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
Changes in East Call for a U.S. Balancing Act

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6

 BODY:
A senior policy maker was explaining the other day that the Bush Administration had two sets of policies for Eastern Europe - one for that night's network news and one for the year 2010. But the real challenge for Washington, he said, will be developing approaches to Europe not for tonight and not for the next century, but for next year, 1992 and 1995.
''Our internal debates are either very technical or very cosmic,'' the policy maker said. ''Look, our long-term goal, the 'vision thing,' is obvious. It doesn't glitter. It doesn't blind you. It isn't a new Jerusalem. It is something very simple: all the countries in Eastern Europe should have democratic institutions and not go to war with each other. It isn't any more complicated than that.
''What is complicated,'' he said, ''is getting there. It is that middle distance - the policy for 1995 - that's the problem. It has to be something more than a Polish aid package and something less than the vision of a 'Europe whole and free.' '' 
 
New Thinking Is Needed
Ultimately, it will be policies for the middle distance that will determine how effectively the United States can help Europe make its transition from the barbed-wire-divided landscape of the recent past to a continent whole and free. In addressing the NATO allies in Brussels this week after his meeting in Malta with President Michail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union, President Bush acknowledged this challenge.
''The U.S. will remain a European power, and that means that the United States will stay engaged in the future of Europe and in our common defense,'' Mr. Bush said. But he was quick to add that the task required a reversal of old approaches almost as great as that being tried in Moscow.
''As I watched the way in which Mr. Gorbachev has handled the changes in Eastern Europe, it deserves new thinking,'' the President said. ''It absolutely mandates new thinking.''
 
Time May Be Short
But if the United States is to be involved in drawing the Europe of the 1990's, as the President vowed, what are the immediate goals it is seeking there? With budgetary pressure mounting for a reduction in the number of American troops in Europe, what form will the United States presence take over the middle distance? At a time when American officials themselves admit they have little leverage to influence the pace and scope of change in Eastern Europe, how can the United States develop a blueprint for the future that will not be overwhelmed by events? Finally, is there a threat that the emerging unity of Eastern and Western Europe may lead to a growing disunity in the Western alliance?
The time available for answering these questions may be less than anyone imagines. Administration officials say that although President Bush and Mr. Gorbachev never really got around to exchanging detailed plans for a new Eastern Europe, what the Soviet leader did say left the Bush team feeling that he was not only pleased with the nature of change there, but intended to continue promoting it. In other words, events are likely to move faster before they move slower.
The fact that senior Administration decision makers have not yet produced clear-cut blueprints for the middle distance appears to be more a result of their being overwhelmed by events than a lack of imagination. It seems that too much is changing too fast in too many unexpected ways for the leadership to get too far beyond the day-to-day.
''I don't think people genuinely have recovered their breath from what has happened,'' said a top Administration policy maker. ''I have spent my entire grown-up life not knowing the difference between Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. They were like Central African lakes to me. There was never any reason to think about them. If you had told me two years ago that I would now be drawing careful political distinctions between Estonia and Lithuania, I would never have believed it.''
Nevertheless, interviews with a range of officials, scholars, policy analysts and historians made clear that there is no shortage of ideas on how the Administration should act toward Europe in the middle distance. The German Question A Dream, Reunion, And 2 Nightmares At the heart of all the ''new thinking'' about Europe in Washington lies the German question. How the United States relates to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Community will be shaped to a large extent by whether East and West Germany are reunited and if so, how.
The Bush Administration has made a strategic decision in recent months not to oppose German unification in principle provided it is done through free elections. But in his Brussels speech the President sketched out for the first time other conditions Washington would insist on.
''Unification should occur in the context of Germany's continued commitment to NATO, an increasingly integrated European Community, and with due regard to the legal role and responsibilities of the Allied powers,'' Mr. Bush said. ''In the interest of general European stability, moves toward unification must be peaceful, gradual and part of a step-by-step basis. And lastly, on the question of borders, we should reiterate our support for the Helsinki Final Act'' - which declared that Europe's postwar borders were inviolable.
But the question remains how the Administration should go about imposing these conditions.
 
U.S. Role 'Appropriate'
''We would be nuts to try to oppose German reunification - there is nothing to be gained by antagonizing Germany - but we would be equally nuts to keep our hands off and say that German reunification is only a question for the German people,'' said Burton Yale Pines, an expert on Europe at the Heritage Foundation, a Washington-based conservative research center.
''Because of the instabilities a united Germany has created in this past century, it is absolutely appropriate for Moscow and Washington to begin talking now, along with Britain and France, about how Germany should be reunified - what sorts of weapons it should be allowed to have, what limitations on its troops should be imposed and how it would relate to its neighbors.''
Administration officials say they are concentrating their energies now on insuring that there is a unified Western approach to the German question before they begin talking with the Soviets. Washington's nightmares here are two. The first is that East Germany will literally collapse tomorrow, fostering a popular momentum for unification and possibly prompting the Soviets, who have some 400,000 troops in East Germany, to intervene to halt the process.
The Administration's view is that keeping East Germany propped up so that it can make a gradual transition to unification is primarily the job of West Germany, the only country with the resources and contacts to make it happen.
Which leads to the Administration's second nightmare: As East and West Germany inexorably grow closer together, even if step by step, deeply rooted fears about a united Germany will set off an earthquake in the NATO alliance, with its epicenter in London, where Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has opposed unification at this time.
 
Baker Plans European Trip
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d will be going to Europe next week for meetings in Bonn and Brussels with the aim of obtaining a NATO consensus on Mr. Bush's approach. At the last minute he added London to his itinerary to try to ease Prime Minister Thatcher's anxieties.
In Bonn, Mr. Baker will try to continue the Administration's approach of hugging the West Germans to the Western camp. That means, an official said, letting Bonn know that Washington has ''total confidence'' in the prudent way West Germany has handled the situation up to now and wants to consult with Bonn at every step of the way. At the same time, the official said, Washington will need to reaffirm by words and with arms around the shoulder that it believes Bonn must continue consulting with the West and reiterating its unshakable ties to NATO and the European Community.
Such commitments are necessary both to reassure the rest of Western Europe and to send a signal Mr. Gorbachev. Administration officials left Malta with a sense that while the Soviets continue to oppose total German unification, they too may be starting to recognize that it may be inevitable and hence they may begin insisting that such a unified entity be ''neutral.''
 
The Longer-Term Question
In London and in Brussels, Mr. Baker will try to promote Mr. Bush's position that German unification in the context of continued membership in NATO and the European Community is nothing the allies need to fear.
''This is a policy that is going to require a lot of handholding,'' a State Department official said. ''Once we have a framework agreed on with the British, French and West Germans then we can start talking to the Soviets.''
The longer-term question, policy analysts say, is how can the United States insure that a unified Germany is firmly anchored in the Western alliance when the lessening of the Soviet threat will feed budgetary momentum in Congress to bring the bulk of the 317,000 American troops in Europe home?
The answer, said Stephen F. Szabo, a German expert at the National War College, is for the United States to take a much more active role in promoting European integration, not only the plans of the 12 members of the European Community to turn themselves into a single market by the end of 1992, but also their proposals for a European monetary union and for a defensive structure of their own to augment NATO. This would both dilute the power of a unified Germany and keep it enmeshed in the West.
''We are going to be playing a declining military role, so we better have something there in place when we leave that can both maintain an overall balance of power with the Soviets and at the same time be a firm anchor holding Germany to the West,'' Mr. Szabo said. ''This means trying to promote more European control of NATO.''
 
The Ultimate Guarantee
Even over the long term, Administration officials are convinced that Mr. Gorbachev does not want the United States out of Europe, but instead sees a continued American presence there as the ultimate guarantor that neither the German question nor intra-European antagonisms will get out of control. Administration officials say it is premature to even begin talking about a changed American relationship to NATO, let alone the United States leaving Europe.
''NATO provides the single greatest institutional tie the United States has to Western Europe, and no one wants to see that relationship attenuated,'' said Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger. ''Over time I am sure we will have to adjust our relationship, but we are not there yet. I don't think anyone at this point can envisage how the relationship will change.'' The Aid Question New Democracies and New Challenges If there is any real threat from Eastern Europe to American interests in the middle term it is no longer the threat of a Warsaw Pact invasion but rather a Warsaw Pact economic collapse. When Administration officials talk about their ''worst case scenario'' for Eastern Europe, it always begins with economics, not politics.
''The worst case,'' a senior State Department official said, ''is that the Eastern Europeans get bogged down and can't make the structural changes in their economic and political systems and then you see pessimism and cynicism set in. That could get ugly.''
It is often forgotten that in the first few years of the cold war, American policies in Europe were not primarily military but economic. The Marshall Plan was intended primarily to strengthen European countries, which had been devastated by the war, so that they could resist decay, instability and Communist subversion. NATO and the policy of military containment came into their own only after the Korean War raised the specter of a Soviet-led strike across Central Europe.
''With the diminished threat from the East, American European policy no longer has to emphasize military containment,'' said Michael Mandelbaum, an expert on East-West relations at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''We are back to the situation of 1947 - helping fledgling democracies, devastated in this case by the calamity of 40 years of Communist rule, trying to get on their feet.''
 
Development Bank Suggested
For the short term, the Bush Administration, prodded by Congress, has come up with a package that provides $938 million in grants, investment funds, bank credits, scholarships, job-training schemes and environmental protection projects for Poland and Hungary. But this package will expire in three years, and does not even address changes in Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia.
For the middle distance, Felix G. Rohatyn, a senior partner in the investment bank Lazard Freres & Company, has suggested that the United States should take the lead in creating a permanent Eastern European Development Bank.
''For the longer haul,'' Mr. Rohatyn said, ''it seems to me that some kind of multinational development institution should be created by the Europeans, Japanese and ourselves along the lines of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation of the 1930's.''
The capital, Mr. Rohatyn said, should be held by Japan, the United States and the European Community.
''I would begin with $5 billion, which would allow them to borrow much more, and put the bank in Vienna,'' he said. ''Any country that has made the political reforms - that is free elections and recognition of the principle of private property - but not yet the economic ones could apply.''
Such a bank, he said, would act as a permanent provider of financing for infrastructure projects, like telecommunications and irrigation systems, and for developing free-market instruments and skills, like accounting systems, mortgage institutions, copyright laws, credit and banking systems.
 
The Money Question
To transform the economies of Eastern Europe in a stable manner from planned economies to more free-market systems ''is going to take a long time, so we need institutions that can work over the long haul,'' Mr. Rohatyn said.
And there is the rub, some American officials say.
''I represent a great power and we reach into our pockets and all we have is loose change,'' a State Department official said. ''I am not saying you should substitute check writing for policy making. But let's face it: student exchanges, leadership grants, banking credits, new consulates - these are the network of things that bring us influence on the ground. You have to put your money where your mouth is, and we're broke.''
Administration officials concede that they will have to influence economic development in Eastern Europe with a small purse, at best. Their policy for the middle distance is to make a virtue of necessity and share leadership on the aid front with both the European Community and the Group of 24 leading Western industrial nations.
''There is a lot we can do without money - providing technical assistance, or incentives for reform or intellectual capital,'' an Administration official said. ''We're going to have to do more of that. Look at all we offered Gorbachev in Malta. Did that cost us any money?''
 
Ready for Anything
Everything Is 'Back To Square One'
Out of all these loose threads today's decision makers will somehow have to weave a policy for the middle distance. Those who will have to carry it out greet the task with excitement and humility, dread and awe, said Raymond G.H. Seitz, the Assistant Secretary for European Affairs, whose father was a United States Army general in command of American forces in Munich when the Berlin wall went up in 1961.
''When I was 20, I came home from college for the summer to visit my family in Munich,'' he recalled. ''I remember very well the night when the red phone in the house rang and my father was told that the East Germans are putting up a wall in the middle of Berlin. Now his son is one of those dealing with the implications of that wall coming down.''
''I guess history comes in waves,'' he added, ''and this is one that is clearly cresting. It is not coups we are talking about. It is mass movements, people in the streets. What it has lacked up to now, thank goodness, is a feature that always gives history its real pungency, though. That is violence and barricades - 'Les Miserables.' So we may not get on-Broadway plays out of this moment, but we'll definitely get off-Broadway.''
When asked how he was instructing his staff to go about planning for the middle distance, Mr. Seitz mulled the question over for a moment before answering.
''Everything goes back to square one now,'' he said. ''No assumptions are valid, nothing is ruled out anymore. Of course that is exciting. Bureaucracies are meant to operate within a framework. In terms of European policy we have had that framework established for a very long time. There was NATO, the Warsaw Pact, the wall, the spending levels. They were all thought to be immutable.''
''The bureaucracy is not like academe, where you are trained to question assumptions,'' he continued. ''Around here you don't have time to question assumptions, and anyway you know that they are valid. Right? Now everything is back to square one. Nothing is immutable. It requires a total intellectual retooling.''

GRAPHIC: photos of hammer-and-sickle sign being remove in Prague (AP) (pg. A1); President Bush with Bettino Craxi, James A. Baker 3d (NYT/Paul Hosefros) (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BELGIUM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); MALTA (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST; EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY; ITALY; EUROPE, WEST

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CRAXI, BETTINO; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L GEORGE W BUSH (89%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 



183 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1834 words

HEADLINE: Grim Outlook of Early 1980's Is Back for U.S. Auto Makers

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 6

 BODY:
The prospects for the American automobile industry are more uncertain today than at any time since the early 1980's, when the Detroit producers ran to Washington to push for ''voluntary'' quotas on Japanese imports.
Sales are slumping, and the Big Three are being forced once again to weigh shutting plants, laying off workers and delaying investments.
As sales have weakened, the Chrysler Corporation has closed a plant in Wisconsin and announced another shutdown in Michigan. To raise cash for its auto business, Chrysler announced today that it was putting its military electronics and Gulfstream business jet subsidiaries up for sale. [Page D1.] The General Motors Corporation has ''indefinitely'' idled factories in Georgia, Massachusetts and Michigan. Even the Ford Motor Company, which has been the least affected so far, said on Tuesday that it would temporarily close an automotive van plant in Ohio. And analysts say more layoffs and plant closings are inevitable. 
 
Little Room to Maneuver
Today, the American producers have little room to maneuver, making the next few years a particularly stiff challenge. The domestic auto makers have done much to cut costs and improve quality in the seven years since the last big downturn. But the Japanese still hold a competitive advantage, and some analysts say Detroit used too little of its profits from the quota-protected years to develop new products. Now the Japanese, loaded with cash, are able to speed the pace of new-model introductions and increase the pressure on Detroit.
''It used to be that when a downturn came the Big Three could cut costs,'' said James Womack, research director of a Massachusetts Institute of Technology project investigating the future of the automobile. ''That isn't an option in 1990. The Japanese companies, on the other hand, have the resources to plow right through.''
 
Japan's U.S. 'Transplants'
And this time the Japanese have a powerful new weapon: their ''transplant'' car factories in America, efficient plants staffed mainly by younger, nonunion workers. These new plants can build a car for an estimated $500 to $800 less than most of the Big Three's factories.
The transplants, which are a byproduct of the trade restrictions Detroit had lobbied so hard to get, will be stepping up their output sharply in the next few years in an already overcrowded American car market. In large measure, the future of the domestic automobile industry will effectively be decided by the Japanese. The question is how aggressively the Japanese companies, as the most efficient producers, will push to lift their stake in the United States market, forcing further contraction for domestic companies.
''The big question is how the Japanese will respond,'' said Donald E. Petersen, chairman of Ford. The Japanese auto makers, he added, might moderate their assault on the American market for fear of provoking a political backlash, though he acknowledged that was ''very hard to predict.''
 
Detroit's Job Loss
The Big Three's share of the American market, which has dropped from 84 percent to 69 percent in the last decade, seems sure to erode further, analysts agree. Detroit's unionized work force, down from 1.6 million to 1 million in the last decade, will also be trimmed further, they say.
G.M., the industry giant, has watched its hold loosen considerably. Ford, No. 2, has recovered vigor and market share in recent years. But Chrysler, bailed out a decade ago by the Government, is the most vulnerable of the three. Analysts and Detroit executives now say Chrysler may be forced to seek a merger partner if the current slump is prolonged.
Moreover, unions seem in no mood for another round of cost-saving concessions. The United Automobile Workers cooperated with Detroit in the mid-1980's, accepting moderate wage settlements, more flexible work rules and job cuts to help make Detroit more competitive so the remaining union jobs would be more secure.
The companies, in turn, forged some innovative Japanese-style relationships with workers to try to raise quality and productivity. Yet the implicit pact with the unions was that another wave of austerity was not in the offing.
 
Resisting Plant Closings
Chrysler recently announced a plan to shut down its factory on Jefferson Avenue in Detroit, and the U.A.W. has said it plans to resist such closings, and might even strike in protest. The Detroit producers face negotiations on a three-year wage pact in 1990, and analysts agree that a strike could be devastating.
The previous automotive recession, from 1980 to 1982, came as Japan was stepping up imports and carving niches in the low-price end of the market. The American auto makers responded by playing a political card; they lobbied for Government protection and got it, a Washington-Tokyo pact that now limits Japanese imports to 2.3 million vehicles a year.
Yet the export-restraint pact, by forcing the Japanese to invest in America, assured that Detroit would confront a new form of foreign competition, within its borders. The nine Japanese transplant factories are scheduled to build roughly 3.5 million cars and trucks a year by the mid-1990's, up from 2.1 million now. About 15 million cars and trucks are sold each year in America.
 
Woven Into the U.S. Fabric
By investing in American factories, the Japanese have woven themselves into the fabric of the American industry - so much so that the Big Three are partners with the Japanese in four of the nine transplant operations.
Thus the Japanese have become important employers of American blue-collar workers while cultivating their own political constituency in Washington. With transplants now producing cars even more cheaply than in Japan, given the strong yen, the Japanese are poised to grab a much bigger chunk of the United States market. The Toyota Motor Corporation, the biggest Japanese car maker, recently announced that its goal is to increase American sales of cars and trucks to 1.5 million by the mid-1990's, up from about 950,000 now. And about half those vehicles will be assembled here.
Toyota has decided to expand its dealer network significantly, especially in areas of the Midwest where it has never sold before. The company could not expand before because it did not have enough vehicles.
 
Japanese Share Rising
So far this year, sales of Toyota, Honda, Nissan and Mazda vehicles have fallen much more slowly than those of the Big Three, which means they are gaining a bigger share of the American market. Hence, G.M., Ford and Chrysler are being forced to devise plans for surviving the coming hard times, possibly including mergers. Not far from anyone's mind are the dwindling fortunes of the American Motors Corporation, which merged with Chrysler in 1987 to stave off certain demise.
The Big Three, in trying to match the factory-floor performance of the Japanese, agreed in 1987 to various job-security provisions for hourly workers in return for greater flexibility on productivity and quality issues. Those provisions will be tested as falling sales and the need to cut costs aggravate the problem of overcapacity, which is particularly acute at G.M. The U.A.W. was not happy with G.M.'s recent decision to shut a Lakewood, Ga., plant and has hardened its stance on ''cooperative'' programs with management.
 
Tough Bargaining Ahead
Unless the climate between management and labor improves, bargaining for a new national contract next fall could be difficult.
A strike would be disastrous, experts agree. What has changed is that the Japanese transplants are willing and able to pick up the slack in the marketplace in any work stoppage. Thus, Big Three managements will have to consider carefully before risking a union confrontation.
The Big Three's strategy in staying abreast of the Japanese through the 1980's has been to build large numbers of vehicles and lure consumers to buy them with incentives like rebates and low-interest financing.
But rebates have cut heavily into profits, which are the fuel for product development. Big Three executives agree that they must eventually find a way to match Japanese quality, price and design if they hope to avoid further erosion of market share.
 
Coming Up Short on Quality
The Big Three's cars and trucks, while vastly improved since the early 1980's, continue to come up short in most evaluations. A recent survey of performance, quality, safety and resale value by Automotive Industries magazine rated the Acura Legend, made by the Honda Motor Company, as the industry benchmark. Frank A. Olson, chairman of the Hertz Corporation, the nation's largest rental car company, noted that his fleet's Japanese cars are still 15 to 20 percent better than American autos, in terms of defects and maintenance costs.
The cost of developing a new model, however, runs into billions of dollars and continues to climb. G.M., for example, badly needs to replace its outmoded Pontiac Firebird and Chevrolet Camaro models, based on the same body and chassis. The sporty cars appeal mainly to younger buyers, a category in which G.M. has lost a great deal of ground since the current car was introduced in 1982.
But G.M. planners have still not been able to propose a business plan that shows how they can make money with a new Firebird/Camaro. Without such a plan G.M. top management will not approve the tremendous capital outlays required for engineering, new tools and training.
The lag in Detroit's new-car development is evident at Ford as well. Ford won kudos with its Taurus and Sable in 1985, the same year a new Honda Accord appeared. This year, however, Honda introduced an all-new Accord, while big changes for Taurus are still years away.
 
'Financial Staying Power'
''Financial staying power is critical for keeping new-product plans alive during a downturn,'' Mr. Womack of M.I.T. said. ''If you try to save money by slowing your new products, it doesn't hurt you in the short term. But in the next go-round you'll lose more share by not having the products.''
The need for large capital outlays at a time of heightening competition puts a premium on the ability of the Big Three to share costs by forging effective joint ventures and partnerships with foreign auto makers, particularly from Japan.
All three companies are learning to do this. Ford has parlayed its 25 percent interest in the Mazda Motor Corporation into an arrangement to build cars jointly in Flat Rock, Mich., and to develop jointly the new Ford Escort, which will appear in the spring. G.M. has multiple arrangements with Toyota, Suzuki and Isuzu, but none have yet produced the ''home run'' vehicle the company so desperately needs. Chrysler has done well with its Diamond Star transplant in Bloomington, Ill., co-owned with its Japanese affiliate, the Mitsubishi Motor Corporation. Chrysler is also pinning big hopes on a sports car it is developing with Mitsubishi, called Stealth, due to appear in 1992.

GRAPHIC: photo of a Chrysler plant in Detroit (AP for NYT); graph of U.S. market share of big 3 auto makers from '78 to '89 (Source: Ward's Automotive Yearbook) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); SALES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (76%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (70%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: ;LEVIN, DORON P



184 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-24
 
Egon Krenz's remaining state jobs were yielded by the fallen East German Communist chief, and the party itself moved up to Friday its emergency congress, at which it is expected to shed its Stalinist structures. Page A1

 
Lutheran Church gets bigger role A20

Taking politics out of the East German army A20

 
The Prague Prime Minister will quit if his recently formed government is not given ''adequate conditions for its work,'' he said. A1

 
Czech Communist Party struggling to stay calm A21

Mitterrand warns Bonn not to press for reunification A21

Lithuanians vote to end Communists' monopoly A21

U.S. offers Moscow ideas on how to improve its economy A22

 
U.S. policymakers face a major test in determining what are the best policies for helping Europe make a transition to a continent whole and free, they say. A1

 
A state of emergency in Manila was declared by President Aquino only hours after rebel troops allowed the evacuation of hundreds of foreigners trapped in hotels and apartment buildings held by the rebels. A1 
 
 
U.S. praises Manila for freeing Americans trapped by revolt A15

News analysis: The choices facing President Aquino A14

 
A bomb exploded in Bogota outside the secret police headquarters. At least 35 people were killed and hundreds were wounded. A24

 
Drug-ring profits reported seized A24

Ring leader guilty in Capital A25

 
A Nicaraguan plan to gain leverage against the United States in negotiations explains the existence of the plane that crashed while carrying missiles from Nicaragua to Salvadoran rebels, diplomats and Sandinista officials say. A3

 
Egypt has agreed with U.S. plans for how to start a dialogue between Israel and Palestinian representatives, the State Department said. A11

 
Israel bans Arab leader from occupied areas A10

U.N. puts off its vote on P.L.O. A8

Capitalism stirs in Muslim Egypt A16

Lebanon's President threatens to quit A13

New Cabinet named in Jordan A6

France pushes integration of Arab immigrants A9

Five more arrests in killing of apartheid opponents A19

New cabinet in India A18

Vote on Swiss Army aids effort for change A5

 
NATIONAL A25-31, B20-28
 
A right-to-die case was heard by the Supreme Court for the first time. The Justices seemed skeptical of the arguments that were presented. A1

 
A crisis at the Energy Department continues. Many important positions remain vacant, even as the nation's broken-down bomb factories show further problems. A1

 
Reagan asks court to kill subpoena A27

Next budget falls within deficit limit B26

Bush set to trim Pentagon requests for '91 B26

Washington Talk: Bush calls truce in ''pocket veto'' dispute A28

Cranston seeks inquiry on source of disclosures on son B21

Volleyball on health care costs D1

 
The U.S. automobile industry is troubled. Sales are slumping, and the Big Three are being forced to weigh shutting plants, laying off workers and delaying investments. A1

 
Aircraft subsidiaries to be sold by Chrysler D1

 
Federal AIDS policies were attacked by the National Commission on AIDS. The panel said the policies were creating obstacles to getting health care to people with the disease. A26

 
B'nai B'rith's women's unit may soom be expelled because the women declared themselves separate and autonomous. The conflict threatens to tear apart the world's largest Jewish organization. A26

 
A candidate barred from communion for her stand on abortion won election to the California Senate, and analysts on both sides said the Catholic Bishop's action against her aided her victory. B25

 
Michigan abortion curb for minors advances B24

1,500-m.p.h. winds found on Neptune A31

North Dakota voters reject tax-rise plans B24

Maryland bans eight handguns and approves 677 weapons B28

Man who won rape acquittal pleads guilty in 2d case B21

Arkansas is ordered to redo district lines A28

 
REGIONAL B1-19
 
A program to help foster children return to their families by giving the families rent subsidies has helped relatively few children since it began a year ago. B1

 
A doctor stricken with AIDS, who claims she caught the virus after being pricked with a syringe needle, is suing the hospital where she says the incident occurred. B1

 
Views on Tompkins Square Park have changed considerably since a riot there last year. Residents of the Lower East Side now seem more amenable to plans to remove the homeless from the park. B1

 
Woman with little education training to be a schools aide B3

 
U.F.T. head calls for more metal detectors in schools B12

Back where the shuttles are at La Guardia B3

A boy, 5, was kidnapped and used to panhandle for money B3

Mason witness admits crimes B18

Airport plan a travelers' oasis, but a threat to neighbors B1

Incinerator ash in a new guise: building blocks B5

Calling client a monster, lawyer asks for lesser charge B6

Officer says rough seas hurt rescue effort B8

Gambling panel fines Caesaer's for catering to bias B14

 
NEEDIEST CASES B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); FRANCE (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); VETO (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMIES (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); SUBPOENAS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); BUDGETS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (65%); HOMICIDE (65%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (53%); 



185 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Nicaragua Shaping a Risky New Strategy to Gain Leverage Against U.S.

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Dec. 6

 BODY:
A light plane that crashed while carrying sophisticated antiaircraft missiles from Nicaragua to Salvadoran rebels was part of a risky new Nicaraguan strategy to gain negotiating leverage against the United States, diplomats and Sandinista officials say.
Nicaraguan leaders have refused direct public comment about the plane, which was carrying 24 Sam-7 antiaircraft missiles and other weapons when it crashed in pre-dawn darkness in Eastern El Salvador on Nov. 25.
But diplomats and officials close to the Sandinista directorate say that the flight was approved as part of a calculated attempt to establish a tradeoff between Sandinista aid to the Salvadoran guerrillas and American aid to anti-Sandinista rebels in Nicaragua.
 
At Bottom, the Contra Issue
American military aid to the contras was cut off by Congress in 1988. But the contra army continues to receive non-military assistance from the United States, and its presence remains a deep concern for Sandinista leaders, who see it as a military and political threat in national elections planned here in February 1990. 
Over the past year, Nicaragua has won two major regional agreements calling for the dismantling of contra bases in Honduras. The contra leaders, apparently with American support, have refused to give up their fight, and a regionally agreed deadline for the rebels' departure passed unheeded on Tuesday, further enraging Sandinista leaders.
Diplomats and Sandinista officials said the antiaircraft missiles were sent to deal a powerful but precise blow to the American-backed Salvadoran military, which has relied heavily upon air power to defend against a fierce guerrilla offensive that began on Nov. 11.
 
Trying to Set Off Alarms
The purpose of that blow, the officials say, was to set off alarm bells in Washington, placing America's extensive involvement in El Salvador at risk from weapons whose supply is controlled from Managua. Although the Salvadoran guerrillas receive arms and ammunition from many sources, they have never before received sophisticated antiaircraft missiles. And Nicaraguan officials say that Sandinista leaders have retained tight, high-level control of the new missile shipments, leaving open the possibility of trading a cutoff in future shipments for an American agreement to disband the contras.
American officials, for their part, have expressed deep public concern over the implications of the missile shipment, and have said that missiles apparently delivered by similar recent flights have now begun to appear in combat in El Salvador. But they have dismissed any suggestion the United States would make a deal to prevent new missile shipments, particularly at the expense of the contra army, which was justified in its early years precisely as a means of interdicting Nicaraguan aid to the Salvadoran guerrillas.
''The makings of a deal may be there,'' said one non-American diplomat here. ''But that doesn't mean it would be easy for anybody in Washington to accept.''
 
Long-Planned Strategy
The strategy for sending the missiles is believed to have been developed in late October as part of a broader set of military steps designed to increase pressure for the dismantling of the contra army. Sandinista officials say that the strategy included the government's dramatic decision on Nov. 1 to end a 19-month-old cease-fire with contra units inside Nicaragua. They said that the measures had been designed and personally overseen by major Sandinista leaders, including Humberto Ortega Saavedra, a leading architect of the Sandinista revolution who is the Defense Minister, and a brother of President Daniel Ortega Saavedra.
Last week, the Nicaraguan authorities presented a pilot from the national airline, Aeronica, at a news conference here after he was erroneously identified by Salvadoran officials as one of three crew members who died when the plane crashed. A fourth man aboard killed himself to avoid capture shortly after the crash.
But Government leaders pointedly refused to discuss the shipment itself, and the case of mistaken identity was quickly overshadowed by other evidence of Nicaraguan participation in the flight. The aircraft involved was identified by Nicaraguan ground personnel queried by reporters at Managua's Augusto Cesar Sandino Airport, and local residents confirmed that two light aircraft, protected by a cordon of army troops, took off in the early morning hours of Nov. 25 from the Nicaraguan airstrip shown on recovered documents as the departure point of the downed plane.
Both the lifting of the cease-fire and the missile shipment have brought sharp international condemnation of the Managua regime, including strong private criticism from the Soviet Union. Last week, diplomats say, the Soviet Ambassador to Nicaragua, Valeri Nikolaenko, met with President Ortega to deliver a stern rebuke for allowing the missile shipment to occur on the eve of last weekend's superpower summit meeting in Malta.
 
Sandinista Resolve Hardens
But diplomats say that the outcry appears only to harden Sandinista resolve. And they say that Nicaraguan leaders appear prepared to press their position with even riskier military undertakings, like the massing of troops to threaten invasion of contra base camps in Honduras near the Nicaraguan border.
The motivation for such measures, diplomats say, is the Sandinista Government's increasing concern that the presence of the contras could endanger their chances of winning the elections scheduled for February, or of asserting unchallenged control in the event of a Sandinista victory. Since August, the number of contras inside the country has roughly tripled, to more than 3,500, and armed rebel units have successfully mobilized anti-government voters - and intimidated government supporters - in many rural areas.
The measures taken by the Government have cast a pall over the elections, which the Sandinistas have carefully cultivated in the hope that the vote will certify their democratic credentials and win desperately needed economic and political support from abroad.
But officials close to the Sandinista Directorate assert that the substantial risks of the new strategy are outweighed by its benefits.
 
Yielding Propaganda Gains
At a minimum, they say, the ending of the cease-fire has permitted large contingents of Government troops to force the contras inside the country into hiding, and to establish a strong new Sandinista military presence throughout the countryside.
It may also yield propaganda gains: speaking to closed meetings of trusted Sandinista Party militants, Government leaders have asserted that the end of the cease-fire will help turn the campaign away from the country's failing economy and toward questions of nationalism, where the Government believes it is strongest.
More broadly, the diplomats and officials say, Sandinista leaders expect to convert the shipment of the anti-aircraft missiles into a strong new bargaining chip to persuade the Bush Administration to support the immediate disbanding of the contra base camps in Honduras.
Such a tradeoff between the Salvadoran conflict and the contra war had long been opposed by the Sandinistas, who feared that it would be used to obstruct progress on demobilizing the contras. The idea of such a linkage is now being raised directly by Sandinista officials. And the paired Nicaraguan and Salvadoran issues promise to be the central focus of discussion when the five Central American Presidents meet for a regional summit meeting in San Jose, Costa Rica, early next week.
''The two issues on the table are El Salvador and the contras,'' said one European diplomat. ''The question is how they will be connected, and by whom.''
 
Makings of a Deal
At the heart of a possible deal, diplomats and Government officials say, are important calculations about the evolution of American interests, which Sandinista strategists believe are now tied far less closely to the contra movement than to the progress of the war in El Salvador.
Nicaraguan leaders have long asserted that American officials have been waiting for an opportunity to revive the 10,000-man contra army. But Sandinista leaders considered it a watershed event when, after President Ortega ordered an end to the cease-fire, the Bush Administration made no move to request new military aid for the contras. Instead, regional diplomats say, the Administration worked behind the scenes in an attempt to limit damage to the electoral process here and to encourage Honduras to participate in negotiations aimed at re-establishing the truce.
''The United States wanted the cease-fire,'' said one Sandinista strategist. ''Daniel gave them the choice of war or elections, and faced with that choice, they took elections very clearly.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EL SALVADOR (94%); HONDURAS (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA; EL SALVADOR

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NICARAGUA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (91%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); ARMIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ELECTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); 

PERSON: UHLIG, MARK A



186 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Journal;
English Spoken Here (by Would-Be Expatriates)

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Dec. 5

 BODY:
A class of 40 nervous students looked blankly at the teacher who had just asked a sample question on an English test, about the purchase of shoes from a catalogue. ''Class, what is a catalogue?'' the teacher asked.
Several students squirmed in their seats, for none of those in the cold, damp classroom had ever heard of buying from a catalogue. Shoes were bought in shops, not catalogues. They shrugged, and hoped that the issue would not come up in a test of English as a foreign language. 
They had signed up for this series of English classes to prepare for the test, which is required of foreign students by American universities. Many young intellectuals, thrown into a depression after the military suppression of the democracy movement in June, regard study abroad as the best escape hatch out of China.
The more the Chinese authorities attack the United States, the more many intellectuals perceive the political climate to be worsening, and the more fanatically they study English to try to get to the United States.
''We are all trying to get out,'' said a young Chinese man planning to study abroad. ''There is little hope for us here.''
 
Pointless to Remain, They Say
It is not so much that they are afraid of being arrested; rather, they say they believe there is no point in remaining, for they will be given no opportunity to use their talents in China.
Paradoxically, the biggest obstacle for many is not permission from the Chinese authorities, at least for the moment, but American immigration law. The United States Embassy here is reluctant to give visas to those who cannot show a good reason why they must return, such as a spouse who is remaining behind, and so a large number of single men and women who have been accepted at universities abroad find that they are denied visas.
''I don't think I'll be able to go abroad because it's nearly impossible to get a U.S. visa,'' said a young Chinese woman who was taking a class to prepare for the English test.
Because of their passion for getting away, many Chinese with only an inkling of English are brushing up on their Americanisms. In Shanghai, novice English-speakers boldly walk up to foreigners and offer to be their guides, just for the sake of speaking English to a foreigner.
 
Some Use Connections
Those hoping to take the English test are not just from the universities. Technicians, physicists, philosophers and computer programmers are among the thousands flocking to English classes and standing in line to register for the test, which is given four times a year.
The next test date is in January, and some people lined up for two days to insure a spot on the registration list at one of about a dozen locations in the city.
Yet the authorities have already started to make it difficult for Chinese people to prepare for and take the test. Late in October, the authorities closed down the English Corner, an officially designated area in Purple Bamboo Park in Beijing where people could go to practice English. About 100 Chinese gathered in the English Corner last Sunday in defiance of the Government ban.
It has also been hard for Chinese who work in units that are being scrutinized because of the pro-democracy demonstrations this spring. Most Chinese must obtain permission and a letter of introduction from their work unit to register for the test, and some Chinese without connections say they have been denied that permission.
''This Government controls nearly every aspect of our lives, down to the very food we eat,'' said a young woman who, like many Chinese, lives in a dormitory and eats at a cafeteria run by her work unit. She also planned to take the English test, but was denied permission.
 
Rumors of a Rules Change
One Chinese worker infuriated officials when they found out he had used a letter of introduction written months before for an earlier test date to register for the January test.
The rush to study English has been fanned by rumors that the Government will change the regulations for studying abroad sometime next year.
Among the fears is that the Government will not allow Chinese people over 35 years old to go abroad for study, although they may make an overseas trip as part of a business delegation or other work. Others fear that the Government will not let students who have just graduated from college go overseas to study until they have worked in China for four to seven years.
 
A Fear of Rejection
Some Chinese are confident they will obtain passports, a process that sometimes can take as long as six months, but are concerned they will be rejected by foreign embassies.
But a United States Embassy official said the visa approval rate for study, now about 50 percent or higher, has remained essentially the same as it was before June. Moreover, the official said there had not been a noticeable drop in the number of passports issued, although many of the people applying for visas now had applied before June for their passports.
But figures for visas issued from April to September at the United States Embassy suggest that fewer lecturers and researchers have applied to go to the United States since June. The largest drop in applications was in the category of business travel.
''This category had grown 20 to 30 percent a year,'' the official said. ''It's usually a barometer of the state of economic relations.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (87%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FOREIGN STUDENTS; ENGLISH LANGUAGE FOREIGN STUDENTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (50%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL



187 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: AQUINO IS PRAISED FOR REVOLT MOVES

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6

 BODY:
The United States praised the Government of the Philippines today for arranging the release of American citizens trapped in hotels in Manila, and the Bush Administration said the Philippine President, Corazon C. Aquino, was acting within her authority when she declared a state of emergency.
The State Department spokeswoman, Margaret D. Tutwiler, pointedly refrained from criticizing Mrs. Aquino for invoking broad emergency powers to cope with the revolt by soldiers demanding her resignation.
''We're strongly and fully supporting the Aquino Government,'' Miss Tutwiler said. She reported that the state of emergency decree, including restrictions on the content of radio and television news broadcasts, had been declared under a provision of the Philippine Constitution explicitly authorizing such action. 
Miss Tutwiler expressed ''appreciation to the Government of the Philippines for the careful and effective manner in which it dealt with the situation in the Makati commercial district'' of Manila, arranging for the evacuation of Americans and others trapped in the standoff between rebels and Government forces there.
 
Private Investment and Aquino
''We commend the Aquino Government for organizing and carrying out this operation,'' Miss Tutwiler said. ''All Americans are safe. No injuries are reported. Some 280 Americans have been transported by bus from several hotels in the Makati area.''
With many American businesses concerned about the turmoil in the Philippines, Bush Administration officials said the revolt should not deter potential investors.
The United States Government has pledged $200 million and Japan has pledged $1 billion as part of a $3.5 billion economic-assistance package for the Philippines in the coming year.
Philippine and American officials said they feared that private investors would lose interest. But, they said, Government aid from the United States and other countries will probably not be affected as long as Mrs. Aquino stays in power.
 
Effort to Rule at Gunpoint
Elliot L. Richardson, the former Attorney General who was appointed by President Bush to coordinate American assistance to the Philippines, said today that there had undoubtedly been some ''damage to investor confidence'' because of the rebellion.
In an effort to reassure potential investors, Mr. Richardson, who returned Tuesday from Manila, said there was ''a realistic prospect of stability'' in the Philippines. The military uprising should not be a deterrent to investors, he said.
The uprising was the sixth since Mrs. Aquino took office in February 1986. L. John Swallow Jr., a spokesman for the United States-Philippine Business Committee, an arm of the United States Chamber of Commerce that promotes trade between the two countries, said: ''Investments have been growing in spite of the coup attempts. We don't see any correlation between the coup attempts and investment in the Philippines.''
Mr. Richardson said the rebels ''arrogantly assume that they can seize power through terrorism and rule the Philippines at gunpoint.'' But, he said, ''They cannot.''
 
U.S. Backs Emergency Decree
President Bush said he was ''very encouraged'' to learn that the Americans in Manila were safe. All Americans who wanted to leave the Makati district were able to do so, White House officials said.
Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, declined to comment on the state of emergency declared by Mrs. Aquino. ''We're looking into the details of it,'' he said. ''We don't have a reaction at this point. But we will take a look at it and see if we have any concerns.''
Miss Tutwiler said the state of emergency decree had been issued under a section of the Philippine Constitution that permits the Government temporarily to ''take over or direct the operation of any privately owned public utility or business.''
State Department officials said the United States had not had any contact with the rebels since the rebellion began on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); COUPS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); TERRORISM (61%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; AQUINO, CORAZON C (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



188 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
U.S. Offers Moscow a Few Ideas On How to Improve Its Economy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6

 BODY:
The Soviet Union received some free economic advice from American officials during the Malta summit meeting on how Moscow could put a chicken in every pot - or least some soap in every washroom.
A senior Administration official said today that during last weekend's meetings Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d presented Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze with a paper detailing benefits to the Soviet economy of diverting to domestic programs $15.5 billion that Moscow is spending this year on foreign military and economic aid. The total is the estimated dollar value of the Soviet aid, much of which is military equipment. 
The paper, prepared by the State Department's Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs and translated into Russian, was intended to demonstrate the ''opportunity costs'' of Moscow's assistance to Cuba and other third world nations, the official said. Estimates From the C.I.A. The sum of $15.5 billion is the amount that the Central Intelligence Agency estimates is provided by Moscow in military and economic assistance to Afghanistan, Angola, Cambodia, Cuba, Ethiopia, Nicaragua and Vietnam.
Mr. Shevardnadze reportedly did not tell Mr. Baker what he thought of the paper, which presented rough calculations of how the diversion of Moscow's assistance could help President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's campaign to reform the Soviet economy and society.
According to the paper, the diversion of a even a small fraction of the funds could markedly improve the quality of life in the Soviet Union. Diverting $500 million could provide each Soviet citizen with 10 times as much soap a year as is now available, the paper says, alluding to the current shortage of soap in the Soviet Union.
The paper also outlines possible alternative uses of the Soviet aid.
In one projected case, it would enable almost two million Soviet families to double their annual consumption of goods and services, the paper states. There are about 72 million Soviet families, according to the 1989 Soviet census.
 
More Meat on the Table
Alternatively, the sum would be sufficient to increase per capita meat consumption by 31 pounds per year. The average Soviet citizen consumers about 145 pounds of meat each year, less than half of the amount consumed by the average American, according to American officials.
An expenditure of $15.5 billion could lead to more than a fivefold increase in investment in health facilities, such as hospitals, clinics and sanitariums. Such a sum could also be used to double state expenditures to meet immediate health care needs, boosting spending for medicine and doctor's salaries, for example.
Whether Moscow is open to the American suggestions of how it might apply its ''peace dividend'' remains to be seen. Soviet officials have, however, publicly stressed their interest in the ''economic conversion'' of some military assets, such as missile factories, for the production of goods for Soviet citizens.
There has been relatively little talk such ''economic conversion'' in the United States. And some specialists speculate that Moscow may be tempted to respond with its own paper, detailing, for example, how the cancellation of the B-2 Stealth bomber would free up funds for the homeless.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CONSUMPTION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); MEATS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TRENDS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD A (MIN)



189 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Aquino Fights the Odds

 BODY:
The fighting in the Philippines has produced only losers. Military rebels have failed to shoot their way into power. President Corazon Aquino has suffered serious damage. The biggest casualty of all could be the Philippines' chances of consolidating democratic institutions and joining the East Asian economic boom. 
Mrs. Aquino's best hope is to use her new emergency powers to revive the reform program she rode to office nearly four years ago.
Cory Aquino is only partly to blame for her predicament. Though she is no longer the heroine of 1986, polls taken just before the attempted coup showed her with nearly 60 percent popular support. In a normal democracy, that would not provide fertile ground for a political crisis.
But normal democracy is something the Philippines has never known. The Aquino period has brought undeniable political progress: a democratic Constitution, reasonably fair elections at all levels and a less intimidated judiciary.
At the same time, huge obstacles remain. The most immediately dangerous is an unbalanced relationship between civilian and military power. Mrs. Aquino won a popular mandate at the polls but wrested power from Ferdinand Marcos only with the help of military force.
The leaders of that rebellion, Fidel Ramos, Juan Ponce Enrile and Gregorio Honasan, still exercise extraordinary influence. General Ramos, now Defense Minister, has repeatedly rescued Mrs. Aquino from military enemies. But he has also helped push aside reformers within the Aquino coalition. Mr. Enrile quickly became an active opponent, Mr. Honasan a renegade. A continuing Communist-led guerrilla campaign has further eroded civil power, forcing Mrs. Aquino to cede scarce resources and a policy voice to military chiefs.
The Aquino Government is also handicapped by ties to the traditional elite in a country marked by extreme poverty. Mrs. Aquino, from one of the nation's richest landowning families, has yet to produce sweeping land reform. Some of her closest associates are corrupt. Vice President Salvador Laurel openly welcomes conspiracies.
Her problems don't stop there. She has no real political party; politicians who have run under her banner hold no commitment to reform. And now she is sure to draw strong nationalist criticism for asking the U.S. for military help.
All this helps explain civilian disillusionment and military unrest. Yet those who long for stronger, cleaner, more reform-minded rule ought to have no trouble choosing between Mrs. Aquino and her enemies. These enemies represent a return to all that held the Philippines back during the Marcos era. Mrs. Aquino could do better, and now needs to. But she remains her country's best bet.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 8, 1989, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about the Philippine military rebellion gave an incorrect date in some copies for Corazon C. Aquino's election as President. It was February 1986, not August 1986.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; EDITORIALS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: AQUINO, CORAZON C (PRES) CORAZON COJUANGCO AQUINO (94%); FIDEL V RAMOS (68%); FERDINAND EDRALIN MARCOS (55%); 



190 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Rockefeller Labs, Roosevelt Homes

 BODY:
Two development proposals deserve continuing strong support of the outgoing Koch administration and a welcome from the incoming Dinkins government. They are the $80 million expansion of Rockefeller University's laboratories and a scaled-down housing plan for Roosevelt Island. 
Rockefeller University brings together pioneers of biomedical research, offering support for their work and the chance to share ideas. In 1973, the State Legislature authorized construction over the F.D.R. Drive. Now the university, with help from the Howard Hughes Foundation, has the resources to proceed. Without student body or patients, the university attracts little traffic and few visitors. Expansion over the drive poses no threat to neighbors. This valuable institution merits the Board of Estimate's support.
Directly across the main East River channel, meanwhile, the Roosevelt Island Operating Corporation plans to complete the residential community that has awakened that underused urban island. In the early 1970's the development corporation created Northtown, with 3,258 apartments. It now seeks bids for Southtown, with almost 2,000 apartments and community facilities and parks. That would create homes for 12,000.
Half the Southtown apartments are planned as low-rise luxury housing; their developer must, in the other half, provide greater subsidies to low- and moderate-income families than those the state and city governments have promised. The increase in population will help support community facilities and the aerial tramway to Manhattan.
This version of the plan eliminates once-contemplated office buildings and a hotel that no longer seem economical. Their absence increases open space dramatically. This is, in short, a sensible way to improve Roosevelt Island and provide New Yorkers with some additional housing they desperately need. It merits continued support.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKEFELLER UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; ROOSEVELT ISLAND (NYC)

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; HOUSING EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); CITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); FAMILY (72%); BIOMEDICINE (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (66%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); RIVERS (54%); 

PERSON: KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR); DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES) HOWARD ROBARD HUGHES (57%); 



191 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Fast 'Maglev' Trains vs. Short Air Trips

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Federal funding of research, and development of a 4,000-m.p.h. ''hypersonic plane'' may give the U.S. a lead in a spectacular form of transportation, as William Safire notes (column, Nov. 20), but in everyday problems of transportation, such as delays from overcrowded hub airports and highways, this project won't do any more than putting a man on the moon did.
It's time for Congress and the Administration to heed the challenge of Senator Moynihan (Scientific American ad, Op-Ed page Nov. 8) to support research and development on the magnetic levitation (''maglev'') technology, which can address those problems and more. Maglev routes can replace fuel-inefficient short-haul jet flights and free airspace for more long-distance flights. At the same time, if there is a rapid transit link between hub airport and downtown, intercity commuters can forsake their autos for safe 300-m.p.h. transportation. The combination of airline ''feeder'' traffic and intercity commuters will provide enough ridership for the system to be economical.
High-speed trains are a highly visible mode of transport. While Europe builds a network of 186-m.p.h. wheels-on-rails trains, the U.S. can vault into the lead by capitalizing on Japanese and West German maglev research, and recent breakthroughs in superconductivity. As an added benefit, aerospace manufacturers can gear up to develop and produce maglev vehicles, which are essentially aircraft without wings. A shrinking defense budget can be an opportunity, rather than a problem, for U.S. employers to fill a transportation need far more effectively than sprawling new airports and highway expansion ever can.
 
WILLIAM L. SCHLOSSER
 Indianapolis, Nov. 20, 1989

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (52%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN MAGAZINE (57%); SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN MEDICINE (57%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; MAGNETISM AND MAGNETS; FEDERAL AID (US); RESEARCH RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); MAGNETIC LEVITATION (90%); AIRLINES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (78%); TRAINS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (64%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (64%); BUDGETS (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM L SAFIRE (58%); DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (57%); 



192 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Fernandez Appoints Another Deputy

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Joseph A. Fernandez, who is to become New York City's schools chancellor on Jan. 2, yesterday named a woman with little academic training in education as his deputy chancellor for programs, signaling once more that his administration will be rather unconventional.
The appointee, Amina Abdur-Rahman, is vice president for education of the New York City Partnership, a nonprofit business organization. Ms. Rahman, 41 years old, worked for several years as a teacher in the New York City Urban League's street academies for high school dropouts, eventually directing the league's education programs, and went on to become educational adviser to Manhattan Borough President David N. Dinkins, now the Mayor-elect. But she never received a college degree, although she said she had completed her college course work.
''She's earned her degree in the field of battle,'' said James S. Vlasto, Mr. Fernandez's press secretary. 
 
Commitment to Reform
On Tuesday, Mr. Fernandez named Stanley S. Litow, a leading critic of the city's schools and a man who has never been a superintendent or principal, as the deputy chancellor and chief operating officer.
The appointments of Mr. Litow and Ms. Rahman suggest that Mr. Fernandez is less concerned with traditional credentials and licenses than with a proven commitment to reform.
That predilection may have other practical consequences as Mr. Fernandez evaluates how well the administrators in the central office and superintendents, principals and teachers are doing their jobs. Mr. Fernandez has already declared himself an opponent of the city's Board of Examiners, which tests and licenses teachers and administrators.
There was some confusion yesterday over the responsibilities that Ms. Rahman will have. Ms. Rahman said she would have authority over guidance and other support services and such programs as drug and AIDS education and would involve herself in ''some aspects of curriculum development.''
 
'Knows the Education Field'
But Mr. Vlasto said she would have ''no involvement in curriculum'' or in teaching processes. Responsibility for those areas, he suggested, might require state certificates that Ms. Rahman does not possess.
Ms. Rahman said she did not know her salary although deputy chancellors have been earning $109,725 a year.
Ronald K. Shelp, the president of the Partnership, which supports work to improve education, housing and economic development, said Ms. Rahman ''knows the education field immensely, from curriculum to management of schools.''
Ms. Rahman, who so far is the highest black appointee in the Fernandez admninistration, was raised in Harlem and attended the city's public schools and City College. In an interview, she said she interrupted her studies when she became a mother - her daughter, Sabra, is now 20 and a college student in Delaware - and gradually completed her course work in education and history at Long Island University.
 
Taught at Street Academy
She said she never filed papers requesting that a degree be sent her nor did she pay a necessary bill. ''At that point I was interested in completing my course work,'' she explained.
Ms. Rahman, who changed her name from Sherron Jackson, is divorced and lives in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn.
In 1969 she joined the Urban League and taught at one of its 15 street academies, a storefront in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn that worked with fewer than 100 students and was sponsored by the Union Carbide Corporation. It taught basic skills in reading and writing to students who could thrive in the smaller setting of the academies. Many students took their high school equivalency tests and enrolled in colleges, Ms. Rahman said, and the concept was eventually copied in alternative high schools set up by the Board of Education.
Mr. Litow said a third deputy chancellor will be Harvey Robins, who is now the deputy chancellor for financial affairs.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Amina Abdur-Rahman, who was named deputy schools chancellor for programs. (NYT/Jim Estrin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC); NEW YORK CITY PARTNERSHIP INC

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRICULA (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); MAYORS (74%); SEX EDUCATION (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); AIDS & HIV (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A; ABDUR-RAHMAN, AMINA JOSEPH FERNANDEZ (93%); 



193 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 26, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Next Budget Falls Within Deficit Limits Without a Tax Increase

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6

 BODY:
To the surprise of budget experts outside the White House, the Bush Administration is proving able to prepare a budget for the next fiscal year that would meet the deficit requirements of the budget-balancing law without raising taxes or cutting fundamental domestic programs, authorities in and out of the Government say.
''A couple of months ago, people, myself included, thought it would be virtually impossible to get there without raising taxes,'' said Robert D. Reischauer, who as director of the Congressional Budget Office is Congress's chief economist. Now, Mr. Reischauer added, he is confident that the $64 billion deficit target set in the law can be reached. Other economists who follow the budget closely agreed. 
The President's budget, which will be sent to Congress on Jan. 22 and covers the fiscal year that begins next Oct. 1, is expected to show small spending increases for selected education and environmental programs but no expensive initiatives.
But some of the White House proposals, including Medicare reductions and a lower capital gains tax, are likely to be vigorously opposed in Congress, and the lawmakers are expected to seek much more money than President Bush wants for child care programs.
Officials at the Office of Management and Budget, where the budget is being put together, will not discuss it. But budget officials in Congress and various departments and agencies as well as groups that lobby in particular areas know enough about the proposals that they can see what the framework of the new budget will look like.
 
Military Cuts Help
They say the relative ease with which the Administration has been able to find about $40 billion in measures to reduce the deficit results primarily from the Administration's new willingness to accept lower military spending, from tightened reins on Medicare spending and from the unusual way that the Government's transactions involving failed savings and loan institutions are accounted for.
The Administration is expected to calculate that if all tax laws and spending programs continued without change, the deficit in the next fiscal year would be $100 billion to $105 billion. To comply with the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law, the Administration must produce a budget that shows enough revenue increases or spending reductions to lower that figure to $64 billion.
 
A Savings? Well, Yes
The Administration, which once intended to increase the Pentagon budget in the 1991 fiscal year by about $15 billion, is now likely to recommend that military spending be little higher than the $291 billion being spent this year. In the odd way budgets are calculated, that would mean $5 billion to $10 billion in deficit reduction, since the amount would be that much less than the sum needed to keep pace with inflation, which is expected to be about 4 percent.
Similarly, spending for Medicare, the health insurance program for the elderly and disabled, would have to grow to $130 billion next year from $114 billion to keep up with inflation. But budget documents show that the Administration plans to hold the line at $122 billion, a reduction of $8 billion. That would be accomplished by curtailing some programs and applying a payroll tax to all new state and local government workers.
The budget could show up to $10 billion more in deficit reduction depending on the timing of the sale of savings and loan associations. Under the system, the money to purchase failed savings institutions is raised outside the budget, but the income from the sales can be counted as revenue within the budget.
An additional $5 billion to $8 billion is expected to be saved by projecting the abolition of some small domestic programs and freezing the spending of others at this year's level, without adding enough to keep up with inflation. Congress is not likely to agree to many of these proposals. But that does not matter from the point of view of the budget drafters, who are intent on hitting the $64 billion target.
''They don't have to propose a budget that's going to pass,'' said Stanley E. Collender, a budget specialist at Price Waterhouse-U.S., the accounting firm.
 
Sources of New Revenue
The remaining money needed to reach the $64 billion deficit mark is expected to come from new revenue obtained by selling Government assets, by lowering the capital gains tax and by extending existing taxes, like the one on long-distance telephone calls, that are due to expire.
A reduction in the capital gains tax rate can be expected to create additional income in the first year because investors will sell more assets to take advantage of the lower rate. Many economists believe the lower rate would lose revenue in subsequent years.
The President is expected to propose as much as $200 million in new spending for operating and maintenance of national parks. More money may also be made available for air and water quality programs and for cleaning up waste sites.
The education budget is expected to include about $400 million for grants to reward successful schools and outstanding teachers, for magnet schools and for other measures that the President proposed this year but that were never acted on by Congress.
President Bush's budget director, Richard G. Darman, has established a new technique this year that forces agencies to compete directly with one another for money.
Under this system, each department and agency will be allotted a specific amount of money. In addition, a limited pool of money will be set aside for spending increases across the Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (96%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); SAVINGS & LOANS (62%); CHILD CARE (51%); BANK FAILURES (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REISCHAUER, ROBERT D GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



194 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 26, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Bush Readies Big Cuts In '91 Pentagon Budget

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6

 BODY:
President Bush has decided to propose a Pentagon budget of $295 billion for the 1991 budget year, substanially less than the Defense Department had hoped to receive, an Administration official said tonight.
The Pentagon initially had planned to propose a budget of $311 billion for fiscal 1991, which begins Oct. 1. Such a request would have provided for a small increase in military spending, after inflation is taken into account, but the smaller amount reportedly backed by the President would not be enough to keep up with inflation.
Those plans were upset in recent months because of growing pressure to cut the Federal budget and the decline in public support for military spending that followed political changes in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. 
Despite these developments, Pentagon officials had hoped that Mr. Bush would still approve a Pentagon spending request of about $300 billion. However, Richard G. Darman, the director of the Office of the Management of the Budget, reportedly has sought to lower the request to roughly $290 billion. Mr. Darman has sought deeper cuts in the Pentagon budget to reduce the Federal deficit.
 
Compromise Is Approved
The figure picked by President Bush represents an apparent compromise between the recommendations of Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and Mr. Darman.
A senior Pentagon official said Mr. Bush's decision would probably force another round of retrenchments in Pentagon plans, as Defense Department officials struggle to fit their programs within the new spending requests.
The Pentagon budget request for the 1991 budget, which will be officially unveiled in late January, has been the focus of high-level White House meetings in recent days. Mr. Bush deferred a final decision on the level of military spending until after his Malta summit meeting with Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
Mr. Bush met Tuesday with Mr. Cheney, Gen. Colin Powell, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Mr. Darman to discuss the Pentagon budget before making his final decision, officials said.
 
The Inflation Factor
Congress approved $295 billion in Pentagon spending authority for the 1990 budget year. But actual spending power will be reduced to about $291 billion because of the reductions under the Gramm-Rudman budget-deficit law, Congressional experts say.
A budget spending request of $295 billion would result in a decrease in Pentagon purchasing power of about 2 to 3 percent, once inflation is taken into account, one Congressional specialist said.
The Penatgon's spending request for the 1991 budget year is in terms of budget authority, or the amount of money that is made available to the Defense Department to spend. That money is expended as ''outlays'' over a period of years. The Federal budget deficit is determined in terms of such outlays.
The Pentagon spending request does not include Energy Department expeditures for making and testing nuclear weapons, which are likely to total several additional billions of dollars.
 
Cuts Already Planned
Mr. Bush's decision comes as the Defense Department has already begun to plan for spending cuts. Mr. Cheney recently directed the services to identify about $180 billion in potential spending cuts from the Pentagon's previous plans for increasing spending from 1992 to 1994.
The effect of such a cut - which reflects the Pentagon's ''worst case'' assumptions about the extent of reductions that might be needed - would be to reduce military spending for those years at an average annual rate of about 5 percent, after inflation.
The services have suggested cuts to carry out those reductions but no final budget decisions have been made.
Pentagon budget cuts have important diplomatic, as well as military implications. Pentagon officials have said that the cuts are being made at a time when there is not only welcome political reforms in Eastern Europe but also some worrisome instability.
Mr. Cheney urged Western European Defense Minsiters at a recent meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to shoulder their share of the military spending burden. Some West European defense ministers said the American decision to reduce its military budget was making it hard for them to win support for military spending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); MALTA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE, DEPARTMENT OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING DEFENSE SPENDING (96%); BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); APPROVALS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (79%); 



195 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 19, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: John Casey, Pleased but Humble, Savors Late-Blooming Success

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
John Casey is pleased, of course, that his ''Spartina'' won this year's National Book Award for fiction, but there is little chance, he said, that the prize will ''go to my head.'' Why? Because two months ago his brother-in-law, Dr. Harold E. Varmus, shared the 1989 Nobel Prize in Medicine. Last spring, Mr. Casey's niece, Jessica Tuck (who plays Megan Gordon in ''One Life to Live'') appeared on the cover of TV Guide. And another brother-in-law, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, formerly the Minister of Mines and Energy in Peru, is about to publish another book on economics -a subject Mr. Casey failed at Harvard.
''Everybody in the family is very nice to me about my efforts,'' said Mr. Casey, who is leaving for Stockholm today with Dr. Varmus to attend the Nobel awards ceremony on Sunday.
Besides, Mr. Casey is hardly an overnight sensation. Now age 50, he has been writing for more than 20 years. During those lean years, he published another novel, ''An American Romance'' (1977), and a novella and three short stories under the title ''Testimony and Demeanor'' (1979). He has also completed the first draft of another novel and another collection of stories that will form a trilogy with ''Spartina.'' 
 
The Plot That Won the Prize
''Spartina,'' which the jury that awarded Mr. Casey the $10,000 prize described as a ''passionate portrait,'' focuses on the two worlds of an angry, brooding 40-year-old Rhode Island fisherman, Dick Pierce, who builds a 50-foot fishing boat named Spartina in his backyard and launches it just before a big hurricane hits. Although married and the father of two children, he begins an affair with a younger woman, Elsie Buttrick, a Fish and Wildlife officer and longtime neighbor.
The book received pre-publication praise from Ann Beattie, Paul Theroux and George Garrett. In The New York Times Book Review, the novelist Susan Kenney said ''Spartina'' was ''just possibly the best American novel about going fishing since 'The Old Man and the Sea,' maybe even 'Moby-Dick.' ''
Carol B. Janeway, Mr. Casey's editor at Alfred A. Knopf, said: ''What distinguishes John is an extraordinary respect for and complete control of individual words, so that every word in a sentence or paragraph carries its maximum resonance and weight. He has what I would call a 'Japanese style,' which is to say one in which everything extraneous or decorative is pared away to leave the beauty of maximum simplicity.''
John Dudley Casey divided his youth between Worcester, Mass., his birthplace, and Washington, where his father, Joseph Edward Casey, was a Democratic Congressman from 1934 until 1942, when he was defeated by Henry Cabot Lodge in a race for the Senate. Paving the Way for Kennedy? ''He was a Massachusetts Irish politician who adored F.D.R., when most Irish in Massachusetts were opposed to lend-lease and were not eager for Washington to take care of people - that was the job of Mayor Curley,'' said Mr. Casey the other day in a telephone interview from his office at the University of Virginia, in Charlottesville, where he is a professor of English literature. Referring to John F. Kennedy's subsequent victory over Mr. Lodge, Mr. Casey added, ''J.F.K. knocked Lodge off the next time around, and I like to think the old man softened him up.''
Mr. Casey wrote poetry in high school in Washington, but at Harvard he tried acting. ''In my sophomore year I was in four plays,'' he said, ''because I discovered I did not stutter on stage.''
In accepting the fiction award last week, Mr. Casey told the overflow audience in the Grand Ballroom of the Pierre hotel that he started to write partly because he stutters. ''I had to think of lots of words to replace the ones I couldn't say,'' he said.
He might have been onstage more often had he not been expelled after failing economics and violating college regulations. ''It was the traditional sophomore year filled with craziness and despair,'' he said. After six months in the Army, he was re-admitted to Harvard on probation, where he majored in Russian history and literature. Barred by his probationary status from acting during his junior year, he wrote stories and began a novel.
 
The Career That Never Was
After college, Mr. Casey enrolled in Harvard Law School, bent on a career in diplomacy or public service. In his last year he took a workshop with Peter Taylor, the novelist and short-story writer, who encouraged him to become a writer. William Abrahams, a literary book editor, told Mr. Casey to discard the novel he was working on, but gave him $300 to encourage him to write another.
''The psychological thrill was huge, but I still hedged my bets by passing the D.C. bar in 1966,'' Mr. Casey said. For a time he practiced law with his father, but then accepted a one-year fellowship to the Iowa Writers Workshop. He liked it so much he stayed three years.
During that time Mr. Casey completed a novel, which he sent to Mr. Abrahams - who promptly rejected it. ''I was so dazed by his rejection letter,'' Mr. Casey recalled, ''that I never read the novel again.''
But he had a suitcase filled with stories, two of which he sold to The New Yorker, another to Sports Illustrated. Emboldened by the ease with which he sold them, he and his wife bought a four-acre island in Narragansett Bay in Rhode Island. There Mr. Casey fished, raised vegetables and published a few stories, as well as freelance articles about the outdoors.
 
Benefits of Saying It Straight
Those nonfiction pieces proved helpful to his fiction. ''Having described fishing or cross-country skiing with no emotional resonance,'' he said, ''when you use them in fiction the rough edges are off - you can use it as though the character had been doing it all his life.''
After Mr. Casey had been living on on the island about four years, Mr. Taylor, who was on the faculty at the University of Virginia, invited him to teach writing there. He planned to do it temporarily, but by then he had two daughters. ''I got hooked on having a salary and being around students,'' he said.
Because of the difficulty of teaching full time and writing, Mr. Casey said he takes off as much time as he can afford. He has received fellowships from the Guggenheim foundation and from the National Endowment for the Arts.
 
Public Success, Private Loss
In 1979, Knopf published Mr. Casey's story collection. But his publishing triumph was marred by a number of personal losses. Within a year, his godson and former student, Breece D'J Pancake, killed himself at age 26. Mr. Pancake was a talented writer and his posthumously published collection,''The Stories of Breece D'J Pancake,'' received excellent critical notices; Mr. Casey wrote the afterword. Mr. Casey's father died of cancer. And he and his wife divorced. (Mr. Casey has since remarried, to Rosamond Pinchot Pittman, an artist and calligrapher. They have one daughter and another child on the way.) His trilogy will have taken about a decade to finish. ''When people hear that, they often make the mistake of admiring the virtues of patience,'' Mr. Casey said. ''But when I started, I thought it was going to take only two years. It's like La Salle - he comes out from French Canada, finds the top of the Mississippi River and thinks it's going to take him a week to find the Pacific. So he keeps on going. I think of myself as La Salle.''

GRAPHIC: photo of John Casey (Mary Motley Kalergis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPARTINA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: WORCESTER, MA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); JURY TRIALS (70%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); MARINE VESSELS (68%); TROPICAL STORMS (63%); WILDLIFE (61%); 

PERSON: CASEY, JOHN; MCDOWELL, EDWIN



196 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
The prospects for the auto industry are more uncertain than at any time since the early 1980's, when Detroit ran to Washington to push for ''voluntary'' quotas on Japanese imports. [Page A1.] Chrysler put up for sale its military electronics and Gulfstream aircraft subsidiaries, hoping to raise at least $1 billion. [D1.] 
McGraw-Hill will eliminate more than 1,000 jobs and take a $220 million pretax charge stemming from the job reductions and other steps to cut costs and streamline operations. [D1.]
Shell Oil will develop an oil and gas field at a record depth of 2,860 feet in the Gulf of Mexico, more than 250 miles southeast of Houston. It estimated the cost at $1.1 billion. [D1.]
Ronald O. Perelman is considering investing about $250 million in Shearson Lehman Hutton, Wall Street executives said. The investment would come as part of a plan to inject capital into the brokerage in return for a large stake. [D2.]
Phelps Dodge will take a $375 million charge after writing down the value of several closed mines. [D4.]
North American Philips announced plans to build a factory to make high-definition television picture tubes by late 1992. [D4.]
The ad agency for Diet Coke is upset over a song being used in Diet Pepsi commercials. [D19.]
 
International
A consortium including Pacific Telesis is expected to build West Germany's first private cellular telephone system. Bonn is expected to award the license today. The contract is the first to allow a private enterprise to provide telecommunications services in West Germany. [D1.]
Peru agreed to resume some payments to the I.M.F., its officials said. [D8.]
 
 
 
The Economy
Economic activity is ''stable to modestly expanding'' in most areas of the county, a Federal Reserve survey found. [D1.]
American workers made modest productivity gains in the third quarter, but the lackluster manufacturing sector posted its lowest output gain in three years. [D8.]
The nation's banks lost $744 million from July to September after earning record profits in the first half of the year. [D7.]
The Federal Reserve actively sold dollars from August through October to prevent further gains by the dollar. [D8.]
 
 
 
Markets
Stock prices followed bond prices lower, as the Dow Jones industrial average fell 4.91 points, to 2,736.77. [D10.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds slipped in light trading, as dealers sold securities after a report from regional Federal Reserve banks showed that the economy remained a bit stronger than expected. [D16.] For the first time in four weeks, yields of money market mutual funds rose. [D9.]
Prices of grain and soybean futures closed higher in active trading. [D17.] The dollar declined against most currencies. [D17.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Coniston's completion of its acquisition of TW is testimony to the extraordinary lengths the various parties were willing to go and to some fancy financial footwork as well. Talking Deals. [D2.]
A few professional money managers are beginning to edge back into the ''junk bond'' market. Market Place. [D10.]
Saatchi & Saatchi reported a net loss of $92 million for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, its first loss in its 19-year history. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHELL OIL CO (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CURRENCIES (84%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); FUTURES (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (72%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); MINE CLOSINGS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); BOND MARKETS (64%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); GRAIN MARKETS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (51%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (53%); 



197 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1777 words

HEADLINE: Graphs showing the sources that cover U.S. health care; what Medicare saved by shifting to employers the bulk of the cost of medical care for workers age 65 and over (source: Federal Health Care Financing Administration) (NYT);
Scramble on Health-Care Costs

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
The Government and private industry are scrambling to make each other pay billions of dollars in medical bills for the elderly and the working poor.
The Government is intensifying efforts to force private health plans to pay bills for elderly workers covered by such plans. Until the early 1980's, the Federal Medicare program had the primary responsibility for the people it covers, those age 65 and older.
Also, both Medicare and the Medicaid plan for low-income people no longer fully cover medical costs incurred by patients under the two programs; thus, doctors and hospitals are raising rates for private payers.
 
Cutbacks by Employers
At the same time, some employers are cutting back health benefits for retirees and older workers eligible for Medicare, leaving the cost to the Government. And smaller employers are deciding not to offer health insurance, leaving their workers to fend for themselves. Uninsured people often end up owing money to tax-supported hospitals or are too sick to work and thus eligible for public aid programs. 
''The tension is growing,'' said Walter B. Maher, director of Federal health policy relations with the Chrysler Corporation. ''It is a symptom of the absence of any type of national health policy. We have all these thousands of bill payers trying to dodge a bullet, trying to shift costs and pay less.''
The efforts to shift the bill to other parties have spurred complaints and accusations, as well as a debate about what should be done. Proposed solutions include suggestions to increase competition in the health-care marketplace; mandates that would tax businesses that do not provide benefits, and a Government-controlled national health system like Canada's.
 
No Current Statistics
There are no current statistics to show how much of the nation's health-care costs have been shifted by the Government to private insurers. But most private experts believe that the Government has had most of its success in the last two years. The latest Government figures, which are for 1987, show that private insurers and patients themselves paid about 59 percent of the nation's health-care bill in that year, about the same as they had for the previous decade. Public programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, paid the remaining 41 percent.
The cost shifting by the Government takes a number of forms. Medicare officials say the Government saved $1.3 billion this year by shifting to private employers doctor and hospital bills for elderly workers and their spouses. This move was accomplished by requiring employer health plans to fulfill their benefit obligations before Medicare kicks in.
Moving to increase the savings, Congress voted Nov. 22 to authorize computerized checking of Internal Revenue and Social Security records to identify workers over 65 who are covered by employer health benefits. The new search is expected to shift $780 million to $900 million more in expenses to private payers, according to estimates by the Congressional Budget Office and the Administration. The nation's total health-care bill is expected to exceed $600 billion this year, up about 11 percent from 1988.
 
Hospital Strategies
On another front, ceilings on what Medicare and Medicaid will pay for a procedure have prompted hospitals and doctors to raise charges for patients covered by private insurance, says the American Hospital Association, which represents hospitals.
But not everyone agrees that hospitals are doing this. Guy King, chief actuary of the Federal Health Care Financing Administration, said hospitals were generally absorbing such costs by reducing payroll expenses and limiting charity care.
Increasingly tight eligibility requirements for Medicaid have left more low-income people without coverage and unable to pay.
The American Hospital Association said unpaid hospital bills amounted to $8.3 billion last year. ''Business can find itself paying as much as a 20 percent surcharge to cover the needed cost shift,'' said Carol McCarthy, the hospital group's president.
 
Meeting Higher Costs
One-third of the increase in health insurance costs charged to employers this year resulted from cost-shifting, mainly from Government programs, said Dr. Dan Dragalin, vice president for medical services with the Prudential Life Insurance Company.
Many employers expect cost shifting to them to increase under newly approved changes in the way Medicare reimburses physicians. Congress has just approved a system that will pay more for doctors' consultations with Medicare patients and less for surgery and expensive technology. The employers worry that specialists like surgeons and radiologists will compensate for their loss of Medicare income by raising charges for private patients. ''Those costs will be shifted to the private sector, too,'' said Thomas R. Burke, a former Reagan Administration health policy official who is a principal with A. Foster Higgins & Company, a benefits consulting firm.
And on the state level, legislatures in several states are considering programs like those in Hawaii and Massachusetts, which require employers to provide health benefits for employees.
 
Subsidy Programs
Also, Medicaid programs for low-income patients have begun to adopt policies that experts say transfer some costs to other payers. At least a dozen states are experimenting with subsidy programs that encourage small employers and low-income employees to pay at least part of the cost of private health insurance.
The programs are supposed to save money for the state in the long run. If the employees or their families become ill, the state-subsidized insurance would help them to get care without exhausting their savings and becoming nonpaying patients in tax-supported hospitals or giving up their jobs in order to become eligible for Medicaid.
In a similar experiment, Michigan recently started paying insurance premiums to maintain the private health coverage of Detroit-area AIDS patients, who were running out of money and would have become eligible for the state's Medicaid program. Michigan hopes the program will allow a net saving of $4 million a year in potential Medicaid expenditures by 1991.
 
State Programs
State Representative David C. Hollister, Democrat of Lansing, who sponsored the Michigan law, said that similar legislation was under consideration in Wisconsin and Colorado and that 21 other states had inquired about the program.
John Luehrs, director of health programs with the National Governors Association, noted that most states spend 15 percent of general revenues on Medicaid, up from 8 percent five years ago.
For their part, employers have been working to hold down expenditures by deflecting costs. A few large companies, including Ralston Purina, Boise Cascade and the Whitman Corporation, have eliminated company-paid health benefits for future retirees, replacing them with employee stock and savings programs. As a result, when these people reach age 65, they will be more likely to rely on Government programs to pay their medical bills - Medicare and, in cases when they have drained their savings, Medicaid.
 
Plight of Small Employers
Many small employers have dropped or cut back their coverage in recent years as insurers raised their rates or rejected applicants they thought had a high risk of becoming ill.
Because many large employers and insurers are leaning on hospitals to provide discounts for their groups, businesses that are too small to negotiate such favored treatment have been hit with increases of 30 percent or more in their health insurance premiums.
At least 15 million working people, many employed by small businesses, have no medical insurance. The Government has picked up the health-care costs of some by expanding Medicaid to cover more low-income mothers and their children.
''As the insurance industry has gotten more competitive, insurers have been less willing to take anybody who is going to be unprofitable,'' said Dr. Karen Davis, a health policy economist at the Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health. ''I am worried about who falls through the cracks between public and private programs.''
 
Blaming Each Other
Such concerns have given rise to accusations and counteraccusations about which side is not living up to its responsibilities.
''It's interesting that those who profess to provide insurance are avoiding it,'' said Bob Hungate, who watches health policy in Washington for the Hewlett-Packard Company. Medicaid and some insurers are avoiding risks by shifting costs to other payers, he continued, adding, ''We don't think it's going to work in the long run for us to pay four times as much as Medicaid and for small employers to pay probably 50 percent more than we do.''
For their part, insurers say the Government programs are ducking responsibilities that they used to bear. ''A whole new theory of public finance has grown out of fiscal limitations in the public budget,'' said Carl Schramm, president of the Health Insurance Association of America, an insurers' trade group.
 
Uncovered Epidemic
He said AIDS was the first epidemic in which primary care was not provided by the states. ''Even in the 1950's, municipalities were opening publicly owned or sponsored hospitals for tuberculosis,'' Mr. Schramm said.
The more than 30 million Americans without health insurance represent a similar evasion of responsibility, he said. ''Congress is inclined to lay blame on the private sector and attempt to shift costs into the private sector,'' he said. ''But the large number of people without insurance represent a broken promise on the part of the Government. In the late 1970's, Medicaid was available to 76 percent of the people whose incomes were under the Federal poverty level, but now only 38 percent of those under the poverty level are eligible.''
Dr. Davis at Johns Hopkins said both the Government and private insurers should be required to pull their weight.
''We're going to have to do patchwork for some time,'' she said. ''The Federal Government should take the lead, but it is not realistic to abolish private coverage and rely exclusively on universal public coverage. For a long time, we will have some people covered by public programs and some by private insurance.''
John J. Sweeney, president of the Service Workers Employees International Union, added, ''The major forces in business, government and unions and consumers are all coming to the point where they agree that health care is a national problem that has to be addressed - not just cost containment but access to care and the quality of care.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE MEDICARE (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AGING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); INSURANCE (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (69%); MEDICAID (58%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT



198 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Fed Survey Calls Economy Stable to Growing Modestly

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6

 BODY:
Economic activity in most sections of the country is ''stable to modestly expanding,'' with even generally becalmed manufacturing displaying ''pockets of strength,'' a survey by the Federal Reserve Board of its 12 district banks stated today.
The accounts, collected and summarized by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, appeared slightly more optimistic than some analysts had expected, in light of numerous recent reports on the economic weakness that included automobiles, housing, personal spending, durable-goods orders and unemployment claims.
That led some analysts to suggest that the Fed would not hasten to take another step to cut short-term interest rates in the hope of heading off a possible recession. The survey published today was in anticipation of the next meeting, on Dec. 18-19, of the Fed's Open Market Committee, the central bank's main policy-setting body. 
Last month, the summary of the Fed survey, contained in its so-called beige book, described economic growth as ''slow to moderate'' in most districts.
In another development, the National Association of Business Economists published the somewhat startling results of its latest group forecast, in which 62 percent of its members said the next recession is at least three years off.
At a luncheon meeting with reporters, a senior Fed official gave no indication that he had any serious concern about the economy's performance. ''We expect domestic consumption to be solid enough to sustain things,'' this official said. He added, ''I still would characterize what we've been seeing as fitting within the 'soft landing' scenario'' in which inflation is subdued by an economy that slows down but does not lurch into recession.
The official insisted that he not be named or further identified. It was not clear whether his views represented those of the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan.
The survey of business economists was described as ''a sea change forecast'' by James F. Smith, a professor at the University of North Carolina and the group's current president. He noted that in September a scant majority of the respondents expected the current expansion to last through 1991.
 
Reasons for Shift
Asked what accounted for the shift, Professor Smith cited a relaxation in Federal Reserve monetary policy, some modest progress in reducing the budget deficit, the political disintegration of Eastern Europe, some signs of rebound in housing and a growing belief that Detroit will soon respond to slumping car sales with large sales incentives rather than production cuts.
Half the 38 percent minority that does expect a recession before 1993 believes, however, that the economy's vulnerability is greatest in the current quarter and the first quarter of 1990. The group's 100-member panel - 59 of whom responded by the mid-November deadline - also predicted that gross national product would rise 1.8 percent next year, down from the 2.9 percent gain now expected for 1989.
While the beige book suggests otherwise, one well-known private analyst, Allen Sinai, said today that the economy had fallen into a mild recession, dragged down by a slowing in the manufacturing sector.
At a meeting with clients in New York, Mr. Sinai, who serves as president and chief economist of the Boston Company Economic Advisers Inc., said growth will contract at a 1.1 percent rate in the current quarter, and will decline a bit further during the first half of 1990 before recovering. For 1990, Mr. Sinai said, overall economic growth would rise by a paltry seven-tenths of 1 percent.
 
Richmond Slowdown
The Fed's beige book survey, based on information obtained before Nov. 28., found most districts conforming with the central bank's ''stable to modestly expanding'' description. The two exceptions were Richmond and St. Louis. In Richmond, business conditions moved lower from an already ''sluggish'' pace earlier in the fall. In St. Louis, transportation equipment accounted for most of its slowdown in manufacturing and construction was reported as weak.
Conditions in the San Francisco district, on the other hand, were called ''generally healthy'' except for Arizona, and the Chicago district reported that while manufacturing was softening, this was predominantly related to motor vehicles.
''Markets for many types of industrial machinery and equipment have continued to expand,'' the district reported. ''In some cases, sales have been stronger than expected.''
Over all, the New York Fed concluded, retail sales have been ''mixed'' with nondurables doing markedly better than big-ticket items and contruction ''strong or improving in the West and Midwest but somewhat sluggish in most other areas.''
The report's brief summary passage on inflation declared: ''Those districts that reported on price developments generally noted flat to modestly increased input prices, with several mentioning the continuing escalation of medical insurance costs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); BUDGETS (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); CONSUMPTION (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); SALES & SELLING (60%); INTEREST RATES (55%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (59%); 



199 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Shell Plans Deep Drilling Off Texas

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Dec. 6

 BODY:
The Shell Oil Company said today that it would develop a promising oil and gas field at a record depth of 2,860 feet in the Gulf of Mexico, more than 250 miles southeast of Houston. It estimated the cost at $1.1 billion.
The project, called Auger field, exceeds the world record set last month for deepwater production by more than 1,000 feet. It will also be more than 100 miles beyond currently active deepwater platforms off the Texas and Louisiana coasts. 
The Shell project is likely to bolster the oil industry's case that it has the technology to recover large quantities of oil and natural gas from the nation's coastal waters, where drilling is banned, industry analysts said.
It should also produce sharply higher estimates of recoverable energy reserves in deepwater areas because the United States Geological Survey, the Federal agency that compiles estimates of American energy reserves, has limited its analysis to shallower production areas.
''The wonderful benefit of this is that if Shell can make it work, we will gain new information on these deepwater areas,'' said Philip K. Verleger Jr., a visiting fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''Our estimates right now are very weak.''
Shell, the domestic subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group of the Netherlands, estimated that it would produce about 220 million barrels of oil and natural gas from the Auger field over several years. Tom Marsh, the drilling editor of Offshore Data Services, a research company based in Houston, estimated that production might continue from the Auger platform for 15 years. $4 Billion in Revenues At current oil prices of about $19 a barrel for West Texas Intermediate, the American benchmark crude, Shell would recover more than $4 billion in revenues from the project.
Jack Little, the executive vice president for exploration and production at Shell, said much of the money would go to operating the platform, taxes and Federal royalty payments, but ''obviously, we expect to make an appropriate return on our investment.''
Last month, Conoco Inc. set a deepwater production record when it began operating a platform at 1,760 feet about 170 miles southwest of New Orleans in the Green Canyon. The Conoco project, begun in 1987, cost more than $400 million.
The technology that Shell will use to assemble the platform is similar to the concept begun by Conoco in the North Sea and applied in the Gulf of Mexico. Instead of resting on a fixed platform extending to the sea floor, the platform floats on four large cylindrical tanks connected to the sea floor by a dozen steel tendons, or tension legs.
 
Two Wells at 7,000 Feet
Mr. Little said the technology would enable the Houston-based Shell to produce oil in 4,000 feet of water, but many of the analysts believe the potential is greater. Shell apparently does, too. It has drilled two exploratory wells at more than 7,000 feet.
The Auger platform can accommodate 32 producing wells and will process the fuels before they are transported through pipelines to onshore refineries.
Shell paid $11 million for the lease rights to the area, and it holds a third of the leased acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at water depths of more than 1,500 feet. Shell also owns offshore leases off the California coast and in two areas near Alaska.
The Auger platform is expected to begin operating in 1993, producing oil at a peak rate of 40,000 barrels a day in 1995 and 150 million cubic feet of gas daily in 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (85%); RDSA (AMS) (85%); RDS.B (NYSE) (85%); RDS.A (NYSE) (85%); COP (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (85%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (85%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (85%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (74%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHELL OIL CO (95%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (85%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (85%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (56%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (56%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHELL OIL CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GULF OF MEXICO

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (86%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (63%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C



200 of 808 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Control Data Names New Chief Executive

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
The Control Data Corporation made it official yesterday, naming Lawrence Perlman chief executive to succeed Robert M. Price. Mr. Price will remain as chairman.
The succession had been expected for some time, and analysts and major investors in the company were behind Mr. Perlman, who has been credited with helping to turn the company around. Suspense built, however, as a succession committee of the board reviewed candidates from outside the company. 
Control Data, based in Minneapolis, began to post losses in the mid-1980's. It reported an operating profit in the third quarter but cautioned that it still faced major challenges. ''We must contend with the major transition the mainframe market is undergoing and the subsequent impact of that transition on growth opportunities,'' Mr. Price said in a shareholder letter.
Mr. Price, 59 years old, was named to lead the company in 1986 as the handpicked successor to the company's founder, William C. Norris. Last December, he relinquished the president's title to Mr. Perlman and in September he asked the board to choose a successor to him as chief executive.
Mr. Price, who joined Control Data as a mathematician in 1961, took over leadership at a difficult time. His role was fighting a rear-guard action, selling some of the company's big units and making other restructuring decisions, and he was often upstaged by Mr. Perlman's success at operations.
Mr. Perlman, 51, is known as a high-energy leader who transformed Control Data's disk drive operation from an ailing unit into a profitable one. He has been working to buck up employee morale.
In a September talk to managers, he said bluntly that Control Data was not working. ''The missing ingredient is a passion for winning,'' he said, adding: ''It all comes down to winning. I love to win. I hate to lose.''
Yesterday, in a telephone interview, he listed three characteristics of the company he visualizes. ''I'd like it to be a highly profitable company characterized by excellence in mangement,'' he said. ''I'd like it to be a source of high-quality products and services, and I want it to be an employee-oriented company.''
When all this will happen is uncertain. ''There's no finish line,'' Mr. Perlman said. ''It's a journey and we've started on many aspects of it already. Our most visible task is to improve profitability,'' and he expects that to happen next year, he said.
Mr. Perlman, a Harvard-trained lawyer, joined the company as general counsel in 1980 and was named to head its Commercial Credit Company unit, later spun off. He will assume his new job as president and chief executive Jan. 1, while Mr. Price, as chairman, will focus on industry issues, government policy and the like.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Lawrence Perlman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (96%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (93%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (72%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CERIDIAN CORP (96%); ARBITRON INC (93%); CITIGROUP INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTROL DATA CORP

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (92%); APPOINTMENTS (91%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (73%); WORKPLACE MORALE (63%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); LAWYERS (60%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (54%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; PERLMAN, LAWRENCE; PRICE, ROBERT M LAWRENCE PERLMAN (94%); 

 
